ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law, by Mr Hervé Saulignac and others, on territorial experimentation aimed at establishing a basic income (No. 1541, 1613).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u2	Mr Hervé Saulignac, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u3	You know the following cohort: 9 million French people live below the poverty line; 3 million children, 1.2 million pensioners and 600,000 single mothers; 46% of students are forced to work to finance their studies; 20% of artisans and traders do not reach SMIC; 20% of farmers cannot pay their wages and 30% of them receive less than 350 euros per month. These figures are so well known that they ended up being trivial: they no longer scandalize, they barely move. For many, they have become fatal, since everything would have been tried. No one is surprised to live in a country that has been so successful economically and far less well socially. No one celebrated last December the thirty years of the minimum income of integration, RMI, which became income of active solidarity, RSA, perhaps by refusing to face reality: that of our inability to invent, in three decades, new solidaritys. Over the past 30 years, we have been working together: aided contracts, more or less ad hoc bonuses, more or less conditioned reliefs of expenses, sliders that are being moved, provisions that are added, which are combined. And we end up with a social protection system that no one understands anymore, like an impenetrable jungle. Some offend billions spent on so few results; The beneficiaries, on the other hand, resign and sometimes revolt, to the point of wanting to overthrow the system which protects them a little. This is how the street has sometimes given us in recent weeks the paradoxical spectacle of those who were asking for fewer samples, walking hand in hand with those who were asking for more protection. On the subject we are interested in today, I know that we will not share the same solutions. But until when will we share the same record of failure without any further reaction? This is what you know about: administrative procedures that are so cumbersome that some people prefer to give up their rights; France ranked as a very poor student in Europe for the social accompaniment of young people; ruptures of rights which discourage some from taking a fixed-term job in order not to lose what has been granted to them; strategies which consist of cumulating social minimums and undeclared small jobs to get about; social workers sometimes discouraged. In the country of innovation and experimentation, the fight against poverty remains the poor parent – no national innovation agency in this area. We are trapped in a social protection system that reproduces inequalities more than it corrects: locked up, because there can be no major social reform without a major tax reform. Failing to reform the entire socio-fiscal system, this bill aims more modestly at laying a first brick through experimentation, but an ambitious brick. It's about making the device fairer and simpler, making it automatic and responsive. It is primarily a question of testing it before considering deploying it. This bill is not intended to eradicate poverty or address issues of purchasing power – the fight against poverty is not limited to the payment of basic income – nor is it intended to create an alternative income that would undermine the value of work and the ultimate goal of enabling everyone to live in dignity from the fruits of their work. On the contrary, it is a question of rethinking the accompaniment towards employment, of recognising currently unrecognised activities and of improving the incentive to work. The purpose of this bill is to experiment with a basic income and not to decree it. We believe in territorial intelligence and believe that social innovation can come from it. Therefore, when deciding on this bill, do not ask yourself whether the two scenarios before you are good or bad. Ask yourself if we can reasonably refuse 18 departments – whose representatives, whom I greet, are attending today's debates – to go through a process that began almost three years ago. Can the state still, in 2019, crush the local initiative and undermine the creative capacity of the communities, while the same state will come to look for these same communities to implement what it has decided and perhaps to finance what it has taken the initiative? These eighteen departments, which represent 12 million inhabitants, have produced considerable substantive work, the rigour of which is not questionable: there was first a large citizen consultation which resulted in more than 15,000 contributions; Then an in-depth study carried out by experts, economists and researchers of the Institute of Public Policy, IPP, to develop precise simulations and to select two scenarios that must now be tested. The text on the agenda had therefore not been written in a rush to respond to social developments or to double the Government, but had been the subject of long-term work. The basic income that is being tested is not a universal income paid to all, without any condition of resources. Nevertheless, it remains socially bold, financially sustainable and scientifically credible. It is not a dogmatic approach, but a fine analysis made by actors on the ground who measure the social emergency better than anyone else. The announcement of a universal income of activity by the President of the Republic demonstrates, if necessary, the need to act quickly. There is a jobless France; Can we leave her without resources and hope? The basic income, which merges different devices, presents three major advances. The first is the granting of rights to persons under 18 years of age. Young people, as you know, are particularly affected by poverty, and this situation tends to get worse: more than 16% of them live below the poverty line and only 1,300 households have access to the active AHR. By creating a new right, we adapt to social realities: sometimes broken families where solidarity is exercised less well; young people without financial support, including sometimes in wealthy families; or, on the contrary, young people from disadvantaged families, who feel that they are condemned to suffer the social inequalities that their parents have already suffered. The second is the automatic payment of basic income. You know the importance of non-use of rights: 36% of those eligible for the RSA do not benefit from it. The right, when it is not accessible to all, creates left-for-account. This is why the proposed law introduces an automatic payment of basic income to all eligible persons. This process is now technically feasible and has been the subject of extensive work by the PPI. Finally, the last major advance refers to the unconditionality of the payment of basic income. Unconditionality, as we understand it, means that the payment of this income would not be conditional on a check on the effectiveness of the search for employment. Not only does it not exclude accompaniment to employment, but it must on the contrary make it possible to consolidate the time mobilised by the referents for this accompaniment. Unconditionality, as we all know, has always been a debate. Let us stop this debate; and, for that, let us experiment. There are at least three arguments to consider. First, we maintain a hypocritical system, since possible sanctions are not taken or remain very little enforced. In fact, are they applicable and can women and men already be thrown on the street in precarious conditions? Secondly – I think everyone will share this argument – until proven otherwise, it is difficult to thrive and be happy with 550 euros a month, and the vast majority of recipients want to integrate the world of work without being obliged to do so. Finally, the failure to condition the payment of basic income makes it possible to value other forms of engagement: I am thinking of family carers, who have to stop their work in order to care for their relatives without receiving any help from society; I am of course thinking of the students, whom a basic income would make it possible to calmly envisage the continuation of studies without being forced to work in parallel to finance them. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The basic income that 18 French departments ask you to experiment with is therefore a new weapon both to fight poverty, to supplement low incomes, to facilitate access to rights and to open new ones for French youth. In 2016, the Senate unanimously adopted Senator Percheron's excellent report, which concluded that there was a need for a basic income. Will we live up to the Senate? Or are you going to try to make us believe that you can do better and faster? Are we going to consider that there is little time and that it is possible to pass the remarkable work of eighteen departments out of profit? I invite you one last time to take this opportunity and to accept the initiative of those departments that are in advance. But can we talk about a time in advance when it comes to dealing with the emergency?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u4	Very beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u5	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u6	Thank you for creating the debate on the need to think solidarity in a radically new way. The Government is fully aware of this and the distress that has erupted in recent weeks strengthens our resolve. Too many French people now feel that society has been defeated. In this trial, which obliges us all to humility, we must rebuild the link with the French and between the French. This means giving new life to our system of solidarity. Through its daily action, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health recalls that in France, we will always prefer to reach out rather than point a finger. To hold hands is to allow everyone to live in dignity, to make emancipation possible beyond conditions, to fight resolutely against the inequalities of destiny. Says otherwise, reaching out is doing everything to ensure that social justice is a reality, and not just an abstract ideal whose discourses are sprinkled. In this regard, the strategy of preventing and combating poverty is emblematic of our determination to stem the cumulative difficulties that are encircling the spiral of poverty from an early age. This fight with Agnès Buzyn is a battle that reminds us that, in the face of this unbearable reality, we will never give in to cynicism and resignation. In particular, with regard to our system of social benefits, which is the subject of the bill under consideration today, we share several of the observations that you refer to. We have, I believe, the same clarity on the shortcomings and shortcomings of the current system. A lot of work has shown them, but I would like to pay a special tribute to the excellent 2018 report by MP Christine Cloarec and Julien Damon on the conditions for a fair performance. He recalled that the complexity of our social benefits system was not in itself illegitimate. Historically and by definition, it is first and foremost linked to the need to adapt the amount of aid to the diversity of needs and situations. But this complexity is sometimes superfluous and, above all, can be dangerous. It explains the significant non-use of certain benefits. It generates traps to poverty by not encouraging an activity to resume. It undermines adherence to our model of solidarity by suggesting that it is easy to earn multiple incomes without working. And the pedagogy efforts made for many years to explain the real difficulties faced by poor households are not able to erase this distorted vision. Finally, this complexity implies a certain cost to our public finances, since it is at the root of many management difficulties and considerable additional costs. I would therefore like to make this very clear: your reflection on the simplification of access to benefits, on the readability of the system and on its fairness is eminently fair and legitimate. We need to move from a system of theoretical rights to a system of real, effective rights. I absolutely share this reflection and ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u7	So pass this bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u8	As part of the strategy to prevent and combat poverty, we have embarked on a major modernization of the delivery of social benefits. We have several objectives: to calculate benefits from the most recent resources of people; encourage the exchange of information between bodies in the social sphere and in the tax sphere, in order to minimise the reporting of beneficiaries; In the long run, have a single declaration for maximum benefits, consistent with the objective of "tell us once". This project, which is very ambitious in terms of systems and information flows, will be completed by the end of 2020. But we're not gonna stop there. On the path that will allow us to go even further in simplification and access to rights, we also have points of convergence. You wish to merge certain benefits and propose that the new allowance be granted on a means-tested basis. The President of the Republic announced the creation of a universal income of activity on a resource-based basis, merging as many benefits as possible, by a law to be passed in 2020. I will politically carry this major project, as well as its necessary corollary: the recasting of our policies of accompaniment and integration, through the creation of a genuine public service of integration. For for us, the benefit does not go without accompaniment to employment or activity. It is on this point that we have a major divergence of substance. The new service, of which you wish to experiment with creation, would not be conditioned by a commitment of its beneficiary in a dynamic of insertion. You mention the importance of accompaniment, but you want the service to be granted unconditionally. This is not the vision we want to carry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u10	Of course, our service will be universal, as it will reach out to all people in poverty, with a very strong ambition of equity. But it won't be unconditional. It will respond both to an imperative of dignity, to enable those who have no professional income, or those who have few, to be adequately protected, and to an imperative of responsibility, around a renewed contract of reciprocal engagement between the State and the beneficiaries, so that everyone is accompanied towards the activity, according to their specific situation and needs. I firmly believe that this republican framework, which has been consensual since the creation of the minimum income for integration thirty years ago, remains more relevant than ever. We must regain the ambition of accompanying each and every one towards employment or activity, armed with our realism, of course, but also with renewed voluntarism. I deeply believe that there is a question of dignity, a question of regaining a sense of social utility. And then, Mr rapporteur, you tell us that there is no social innovation agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u11	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u12	But, as part of the strategy to prevent and combat poverty, we are creating a €100 million social innovation fund, which will be deployed in the coming days. We must remember to ourselves, and remind everyone, that there is no fatality. We must remind everyone that he or she counts in the eyes of the Republic. I repeat that, for this, we are going to reform integration in parallel, because our system is not satisfactory. We will shorten the time frame for orientation, simplify and densify the accompanying journeys, which are all too often the combatant's journeys. Beyond this substantive divergence, I find that the method is incompatibility. The creation of universal income will require a very intense effort of technical definition and consultation throughout 2019. In concrete terms, Fabrice Lenglart has been appointed rapporteur-general and will lead the technical work. Olivier Noblecourt, the inter-ministerial delegate for the prevention and fight against poverty, will conduct a very broad institutional and citizen consultation, with all relevant stakeholders, from April 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u13	We're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u14	The people concerned and the associations to combat precariousness and exclusion will obviously be involved. You who have worked on the subject are well aware that this reform is extremely ambitious. It affects our most vulnerable citizens and we must proceed with method and caution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u15	That's what you're asked for: an experiment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u16	Before carrying out experiments, I hope that we will take the time for a thorough, concerted and solid work. I invite all those who wish to participate in the forthcoming dialogue and I personally stand at their disposal. I have already received the eighteen chairmen of the departmental councils mobilized on the subject and I will of course continue to work with them, but also with all the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u17	One day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u18	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] A challenge of this magnitude will make it necessary to concentrate all the energies, for a single objective: to support the most fragile!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u19	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u20	Today is the time of truth...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u21	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u22	... the hour of truth as to the sincerity that the majority and the Government wish to put in the great debate. You told us that all subjects – with the exception of the solidarity tax on wealth – could be addressed. We therefore take your word, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing a bill that aims to experiment – I weigh my words: experiment – that is, to give the territories the opportunity to lead initiatives without the decisions coming from above. Hervé Saulignac addressed the definition of basic income. I would like to stress to you this notion: basic income is not a universal income, but an income-socle, for people who do not have a job, and an income supplement granted on a means-tested basis, for people who work. It takes the form of an allowance resulting from the merger of the RSA and the activity premium or, in another scenario, from the housing allowance. The aim is that there will be only one interlocutor and that the mechanism will be readable for our fellow citizens. This basic income has four objectives. One of them is to eliminate the non-use of the law: a third of our fellow citizens who could benefit from the RSA do not currently perceive it either because they do not know it or because they do not ask for it. That is why automaticity is proposed to you here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u23	Let them go to the parliamentary permanences!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u24	I hear you propose, my dear colleague, that they come to our parliamentary offices. That would make a lot of people: a third of your department or, in any case, a third of those who might perceive the RSA. The other three objectives are to cover the age group from 18 to 24 with a record poverty rate of 25%, to give priority to the provision of social and professional support over the social control of the beneficiaries, and, finally, to grant redistribution to what exists, i.e. the levy at source. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] But, more than on the merits, I insist on the method that led to this bill. For the past two years, eighteen departments have conducted an experiment. I would like to greet those of their representatives who are attending our debates today: Jean-Luc Gleyze, Chairman of the Departmental Council of the Gironde Stéphane Troussel, Chairman of the Departmental Council of the Seine-Saint-Denis, Mireille Bordes, President of the Departmental Council of the Dordogne, Christine Gonzato-Roques, Vice-President of the Departmental Council of the Lot-et-Garonne, Catherine Debroise, Vice-President of the Departmental Council of the Ille-et-Vilaine, Denise Greslard-Nédélech, Vice-President of the Departmental Council of the Gironde, Patrick Pignard, Vice-President of the Departmental Council of the Haute-Garonne, and Paul Carrère, Vice-President of the Departmental Council of the Landes. These 18 departments mobilized and financed a study on their funds and not on State money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u25	It's still public money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u26	To carry it out, they used the Institute of Public Policy. Fifteen thousand of our fellow citizens came to say what they thought about the RSA, the activity bonus and the complexity of the current social assistance system. Today we propose to bring social assistance back into the 21st century, by creating a single interlocutor and automaticity in the payment of aid, and by ensuring that the income is contemporaneous with the social assistance to which one can claim. We know that this ambition is still difficult to implement when it affects millions of French. The implementation of the RSA was to be accompanied by an experimental phase. During the hearings in which we all participated around the rapporteur, it was reiterated that the errors of the RSA, which was deployed throughout France without any study or evaluation of the experiment, should not be repeated. At the 100th Congress of Mayors, the President of the Republic told them that they should be allowed to innovate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u27	He says everything and his opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u28	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] I want to say: let the departmental councils innovate! That is the relationship of trust. She's going to know her time of truth today. Either you trust the local authorities and you tell them "banko" to experiment. Either you do not vote on this bill, which will mean that this relationship of trust is broken. We can negotiate on everything. If you find that eighteen departments represent too many, we can go down to ten or five departments. The only thing we are asking you today is to give the territories the opportunity to experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u29	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u30	This morning we are considering a bill defended by Hervé Saulignac, as part of the day reserved for the Socialist and related groups. If we welcome the initiative, we can only be shared in the context of the proposed mechanism, for several reasons. The purpose of the proposed law is to introduce, on an experimental basis, a replacement of three benefits – the RSA, the activity premium and possibly housing subsidies – by a new single social benefit, called "basic income", the payment of which would be automatic and unconditional, provided that it is eligible for the existing resource criteria for each of these benefits. This text has been prepared, since 2016, by the Socialist and related group, in consultation with eighteen departments, and in particular the department of the Gironde led by Jean-Luc Gleyze. It is based on a technical study by the Institute of Public Policy. We can only welcome this collective work. While opposition initiatives are often criticized for lack of technical and legal solidity, the opposition enjoys unquestionable technical expertise. It is also a long-term project, which largely precedes the more recent debates in the presidential election on other forms of universal income. But I will not insult you to confuse these two approaches. Finally, this proposal is based on the knowledge of the social policy actors of the departments, closer to the reality of the field. She intends to respond to the growing concern about "just performance", to take up the title of the report presented to the Prime Minister last September by our colleague Christine Cloarec and Julien Damon. As such, we share the detailed concerns in the explanatory memorandum to the proposed legislation. The ills that affect the poverty nets that affect some of our fellow citizens are well known and well documented. The sometimes high rate of non-recourse, highlighted in all reports, has its origin in the complexity and lack of readability of the services to the sometimes obscure methods of calculation, in the absence of a clearly identified single window, in the absence of automaticity and in the insufficient quality of the accompaniment. Non-recourse may also be rooted in the discredit and shame that sometimes attach to receiving aid, in a society that brings individual success and material ease to the nudes. Yet it is the honour of our society to maintain and guarantee these safety nets. It is thus faithful to the promise of the preamble of the Constitution of 27 October 1946, the eleventh paragraph of which recalls that the Nation "guarantees to all, including children, mothers and old workers, the protection of health, material security, rest and leisure". You are right, moreover, to insist on this blind point of public policy, which is the situation of young people between the ages of 18 and 25. In this regard, we believe that the role and place of local missions, which take care of the beneficiaries in the context of the youth guarantee, should be strengthened. It is therefore necessary to simplify and review our system, both for reasons of social justice, and to ensure its sustainability. We must respond to the current crisis of distrust, which is coupled with a crisis of efficiency, because complexity causes logics of judgment. However, the device you are proposing cannot satisfy us as it is because it suffers from a fundamental ambiguity. By laying down the principle of an unconditional right to social minimums, the basic income that you defend weakens the concept of rights and duties attached to the payment of these minimums financed by national solidarity. For our part, contrary to what is proposed, we consider that the benefit of the social minimums, and particularly of the income of active solidarity, must remain conditional, and that it must remain associated with a dynamic of integration and search for employment. In the context of tensions and withdrawals that we know, the principle of disconnecting social assistance from the value of work would send a bad signal. It would be doing a very bad service to those of our fellow citizens who benefit legitimately, and relaunching debates that do not need to be held on attendance and social justice. We remain convinced that it is preferable to stick to the principle set out in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution: "Everyone has the duty to work and the right to get a job. Indeed, it is through the work that individual destinies are realized; It is he who allows social recognition and who signs, in the end, membership of society. It is therefore necessary, on the contrary of the approach you support, to strengthen the effective support of people towards a search or a resumption of employment. How can we be satisfied with the current situation in which, according to the figures of the report submitted to the Government by Mrs. Christine Cloarec and Mr. Julien Damon, more than 40 per cent of RSA beneficiaries have been beneficiaries for more than four years? If society has a responsibility to individuals, it is to put them in a position to choose their lives. I would also like to draw your attention to the name chosen. The term "income" could lead to effects that are contrary to your ambition. Currently, RSA, housing allowance and activity premium are not included in the calculation of resources for the allocation of certain rights. If, tomorrow, you group them under the name "income", you risk causing the loss of these rights. The semantics retained could therefore prove dangerous. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] As it stands, even if we acknowledge the value of this text, in particular your willingness to start with an experiment, we will be against it because of the bad signal of the principle of non-compensatory payment of social benefits. Having said that, we are also here to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u31	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u32	Basic income, universal income, unconditional income, income of existence, guaranteed social income, these various names – and I did not mention them all – designate what is supposed to be a sum of money that everyone – children, students, employees, job seekers, employees, entrepreneurs or pensioners – would receive from birth to death. Every citizen would be entitled, without any consideration, to a fixed sum to be defined according to the categories. This basic income would have advantages: it would promote the exercise of the freedom to undertake for many of our fellow citizens, it would allow each individual to benefit from means of subsistence through a redistribution of wealth – I insist that it would be unconditionally paid. Basic income would also be a positive factor in wage bargaining for employees. It would also enable students to continue their studies in very good conditions – which is not the case today for many of them. Once this is done, it must be said clearly: the basic income that the bill seeks to introduce is not a basic income as I have just defined it. It is true that the basic income, which was the subject of many discussions during the campaign for the last presidential election, has several definitions and can be implemented in several ways. It depends on the ideological orientation of those who defend it, you have understood it very well. I repeat, in the vast majority of cases, when we speak of basic income, income of existence or universal income, it is a sum allocated by the State to each person, unconditionally, allowing him or her to live dignifiedly without labour constraint, from birth to death – I insist on this last aspect. Other proposals, such as lifetime wages, go even further, but this is another subject. Today what we are discussing has nothing to do with all this. The text before us proposes the creation of a new social benefit resulting from the merger of the RSA and the activity premium, granted automatically from 18 instead of 25 years old. We are far from the courageous bill that the title of the bill could be imagined! Having said that, given the policy pursued by the Government since it came to power, I understand the very timid nature of the proposed arrangement. Indeed, since the beginning, Emmanuel Macron has pursued a policy mainly in favour of the rich rather than in favour of the population and social justice. I turn to the substance of the bill by addressing the issue of automation of delivery. France is experiencing an important problem of non-use of rights. The average rate of non-use of the AHR is at least 36%. Let us understand well: the RSA is an income for those who have nothing, and if these people do not demand the income of active solidarity, it is not because they do not need it; Most often, it is because they do not even know that they are entitled to it, or because they are discouraged by the endless steps necessary to obtain it. During the month of August 2016, at the initiative of the movement La France insoumise, activists crossed France, in Hexagone and overseas, with what we called the "rights caravan". Hundreds of Insoumis have made themselves available to the population to offer households to assess their standard of living and to see if they are claiming all the benefits to which they are entitled. The longer the years go by, the more complex the approaches are made by governments and the greater the constraints on accessing them. We know for what purpose: it is to make savings by discouraging the weakest to ask for the modest amount that they are owed. It is really a calculation of technocrats, absolutely disgusting and revolting! We are talking about lives, people in poverty, children who go to school empty stomachs, or mothers who don't have meals to feed their marmailles. While, on the one hand, there are those, on the other hand, there are people who calculate the amount of savings that the non-recourse for public finances represents! What a sad world! This is Mr. Macron's world. Because non-use of rights is a scourge, making automatic payment of a benefit is an excellent idea, and, beyond the bill, I believe that the payment of all our social benefits must be automatic. We must conclude with the course of the combatant imposed on those who are entitled to national solidarity. I am thinking in particular of students, many of whom have no choice but to abandon their studies for lack of financial resources, because of the administrative complexity of the system of obtaining the aid intended for them. Basic income could be a solution for them, if given. Because it proposes the automation of rights and the enlargement of the beneficiary public, the bill is therefore a step forward, a modest but real step forward. As a result, the La France group will vote in favour of it. However, the wisest of you know that France has not defended basic income. We propose an unconditional dignity guarantee for all adults, the amount of which would be above the poverty line. In our view, this is one of the ways to respond to the demand for social justice expressed by the yellow vests mobilized throughout France. Living with dignity is a right that does not imply any duty, absolutely none, for every human life has its worth. Everyone deserves to benefit from national solidarity to support themselves if they find themselves unable to respond to them by their own means. In the face of mass unemployment, it is urgent to invent a new form of distribution of wealth. France must evolve, not step back. I recall the words in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution: "The Nation guarantees the individual and the family the conditions necessary for their development. You can see that this right to development has not been supported by any duty, because dignity is not a thing that is done in exchange for service or behaviour. We do not do charity when we grant a social benefit; We are fulfilling our duty of national solidarity. It is simply the implementation of the motto of the Republic that appears on the front of each of our town halls: "Freedom, Equality, Fraternity. » [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] At any time, social justice calls us. Since 17 November, we have seen the emergence of families who are unable to do so, families who are sometimes deprived of employment, who very often find it difficult to make ends meet, and who almost always feel injured in their dignity because they see some people grieving with the money of the people while the same people are making a mess on a daily basis. Social justice is calling us. Let us start this experiment, we will have the opportunity to draw the consequences!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u33	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u34	"The powerful never yield anything, neither bread, nor freedom," wrote Eric Vuillard in The War of the Poor. Thus we live in a world marked by inequality, unemployment, insecurity and poverty. According to some, so goes the world, so goes humanity. I know some who think that inequalities are founded and that they are a driving force of society. I know some who think that unemployment is the result of the unemployed, the misery of the wretched, the hunger of the hungry. I know some people who think that if they really wanted to, the poor could get away with it. I know some people who think we only have what we deserve. Ah, merit! That's the big deal. He who earns, in a lifetime, a thousand times as much as one of his fellow men, did he really deserve it? Even if it was, at the beginning, a victory over feudality, the law of merit, it is, today, the victory of the power of money and chance. The law of merit is the victory of illusion and vanity. The law of merit is the victory of a few over the greatest number. The law of merit is the defeat of equality. I know those who like to divide, to oppose, to organize the competition of one against another, that stir up selfishness and resentment. I know of people who fan this pernicious idea: let everyone trim as much as I have trimed, let everyone suffer as much as I have suffered! I know of those who defend the inequality of rights, who sort out the good and the bad poor, between the poor foreigners and the poor French, as if misery could be desired to anyone, as if helping a human person in need ripped something out of society, as if society, in the name of each and every one – for it is not a matter of letting everyone act without collective action – could spare himself the most elementary gesture of humanity, as if not all were victims of the same evil, of the same refusal to share wealth. Poverty fuels fear; We only have one idea in mind, it's to get away from it. But how can we believe that those who experience poverty have chosen it? The movement that has been agitating our country for several weeks bears the rejection of misery, it wants social justice. I know those who don't want to give in to anything, neither bread nor freedom, and not even the most rebellious beginning of respect. Yes, the first thing to be given is respect. For poverty, precariousness, is first of all humiliation, with all that they can destroy in every human being. "From this respect can come many things," wrote filmmaker Costa-Gavras in a small ATD Quart World book setting the goal of ending misconceptions about poverty. The first thing to be given, I said, is respect, because she calls everything else after her. We live in a world that manufactures the unbearable, that crushes lives, that harms the human; we live in the senseless meshes of capitalism that hinders humanity in its development, because it feeds on the logics of predation and domination; We live in a world where 800 million people live below the extreme poverty line. We live in a country where 8 million people live below the poverty line; we live in a country where even children can be homeless, where we rush to the Restos du coeur, where workers and workers live in their cars, where women and men set up makeshift shelters until they reinvent slums; We live in a country where we cut water and electricity to those in need. We live in a world and in a country where those who produce wealth see so little color, where one is constantly called to work more to earn a living, where one does not know if one will still have work in the coming month, where one has to find work to pay for one's education... And like Victor Hugo, we are "of those who think and who claim that we can destroy misery", not "decrease, decrease, limit, circumscribe," he said, but "destroy". For we live in a world and in a country where work and wealth could otherwise be shared, in a world and in a country where productivity is growing, in a world and in a country which has been able to find the paths of great social inventions, and if these great buildings have been damaged, if their momentum has been interrupted, they continue to produce effects and fuel our collective imagination. So, yes, you have to dare to move forward, take the offensive and open up breaches. A debate took shape around universal income and basic income. These formulae cover various meanings and proposals, based on various diagnostics and pursuing various purposes. For some, it is a matter of acquiescing the scarcity of labour, for others to initiate the exceedance of wage-earning, for others, depending on the point of view, to disconnect income from work, to pay free work, to accelerate the "work more to earn more", to compensate the poor remuneration of labour by capital, or to grant a fundamental and unconditional right to live. Some are part of a liberal aim, while others are part of emancipatory quests. More specifically, in this proposal for a law, it is a matter of staying within the logic of social assistance by merging existing aid to improve its scope. The GDR Group recognizes three positive intuitions that call for strong action. First positive intuition: the automaticity of the law. That is an essential question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u36	[[Mr. Jean-Hugues Ratenon applauds]] Our system is based on the ability of the individual to assert his or her rights and not on an offensive approach by society to assert the rights of each individual. The logic should therefore be reversed. Secondly, the unconditional nature of the aid and the affirmed right to accompaniment in the face of difficulties constitute the necessary reversal of a bias, that of the ability of each and everyone to take his place, countered the logics of guilt and punishment that prevail today, for example when it comes to referring to unemployment insurance. Finally, there is a need to open up genuine rights for young people, who have so far been excluded from truly effective mechanisms, which hinders their ability to project themselves into existence and even to live their youth fully. We have expressed doubts about the merger of allowances that have reasons to be distinct: how could a single scheme better respond to the diversity of situations that call for solidarity? On the other hand, even if this is not the intention of this bill, we have seen the President of the Republic speak with light in his eyes of the "crazy money" that would be spent on welfare and we know that mergers are being prepared in his way of reducing a number of rights. We therefore tend to think that these three intuitions could be effectively realized without fusion. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] But in no way can the existing one satisfy us. Therefore, we are interested in the debate that the authors of this text want to fuel through experimentation. He's got to grow up. He must prosper. We have proposals to put forward: firstly, to develop the automatic nature of aid, to amplify human support schemes, to create an autonomy allowance for young people and to guarantee more efficient housing aid, but also, more broadly, to push further the great idea of social security, so damaged by successive reforms, to ensure rights throughout life, to push further, and to secure it, the realization of life paths in employment or in training, to push further the construction of public services of our time, democratised to establish equal rights, to insuffocate them from the free to give them dynamism to the stakes in all the crucial areas of existence, whether transport, housing, energy or water, and thus to accredit what makes us equal and equal rather than the beneficiaries. It's about gathering around our common good. It is worth discussing it and not at the present stage of things where those who are abused by the system are forced to quench their rights, that is, the right to live, while the powerful believe that they can never yield anything, neither bread nor freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u37	Very well written!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u38	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u39	The social crisis that we have been going through for the past two months feeds on many angers, frustrations that have long been repressed. It has led to multiple demands, particularly for purchasing power and poverty reduction. Emergency measures have been taken in the last days of 2018 but, as we all know, the crisis is much deeper and these measures alone will not respond to the great poverty, which affects 9 million of our citizens, or 14% of the French. This crisis also reminded us of the sensitivity of our fellow citizens to inequalities; They are demanding more social justice and solidarity. And, although the French model allowed the effects of the 2008 crisis to be limited, it remains largely perfectable. In recent years, the relationship to work and the question of the subsistence minimum have fed into thinking about the creation of a minimum living income. Hervé Saulignac's report goes back to Thomas Paine's work at the end of the 18th century, and Charles Fourier's work in the first half of the 19th century. I would just like to recall that these debates led to the last presidential election and that, since then, several scenarios have coexisted, with as many names as this income and, above all, different levels of protection and conditionality. For example, the EESC supported the creation of a "guaranteed minimum social income", while the Economic Analysis Board promoted a "basic income". Some departments referred to the creation of a "sustainable income", the payment of which would be subject to a systematic work activity and would provide access to personalized support. Of course, I would like to mention the paths outlined by the President of the Republic last September when he presented the poverty plan: what he called "universal income from activity" would be a merger of as many benefits as possible, according to a one-stop-shop logic, but its payment is subject to strict conditions. Since the unveiling of the poverty plan, this project had made little progress until last week and the appointment of Fabrice Lenglart as general rapporteur, responsible for defining its modalities, with the aim of presenting a bill in the course of 2020. [[Approvals on several SOC benches]] I have heard, Madam Secretary of State, that you therefore consider it premature to discuss such a bill, and it is surely the meaning of the motion to reject it beforehand that will follow and that the majority will probably pass. That is a shame, because the text proposed to us deserves to be stopped. In fact, while today there are many solidarity mechanisms and social benefits, the dual objective of which is to prevent individuals from falling into precariousness and bringing out those who are there, they are also often very unknown. It takes a few exchanges with our citizens to see that our social protection system is difficult to understand and requires sometimes complex approaches. As evidence, a figure now well known: more than a third of eligible people would not benefit from the SSA-socle. The rate of non-use of social benefits is by definition difficult to estimate precisely, but several studies confirm this assessment; I remember in particular the information report by Gisèle Biémouret and Jean-Louis Costes, published in 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u40	Very good report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u41	Exactly, my dear colleague. However, non-use increases inequalities and further weakens the situation of the persons concerned, thereby increasing the effectiveness of the various mechanisms. Several factors explain this: the lack of access to information or computer tools, but also, unfortunately, services that are sometimes remote or even absent in some territories. Thus, according to the Defender of Rights, 12 per cent of people who encounter administrative problems abandon their efforts. In this regard, I look kindly at the automatic nature of the mechanism set out in the bill. It would address these inequalities of access and ensure better targeting of benefits. I would also point out the uniqueness of the proposed basic income, which brings together several allowances, namely the RSA and the activity premium, possibly housing subsidies. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups]] [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The issue of simplification of procedures, both for beneficiaries and for administrations and social services, is a crucial issue for the effectiveness of our social protection system. Everyone agrees on the need for this simplification, which was confirmed in our discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs, where we all rightly stressed the need for simplification. And this bill would allow it by the unique and automatic nature of the scheme, which is necessary for more effective social support of beneficiaries. This is all at stake: to provide time for social professionals, who would no longer have to deal with checks and could finally devote themselves to more appropriate support in the context of job search or the construction of the activity project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u43	That's the whole idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u44	Why didn't the previous majority do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u45	The ultimate objective of this basic income is to give the beneficiaries the necessary resources for their integration in order to get them out of the system. [[Applause on many SOC benches]] On the other hand, we can only rejoice that departments – local and regional authorities on the front lines on the issues of solidarity – are at the origin of such a bill. The work done by the first thirteen departments in this direction is to be commended. Their approach was convincing, as we saw last June when they presented the results of their extensive consultation with 15,000 people. No wonder they were then joined by others. This text illustrates the relevance of initiatives that are born as close to the field as possible. The experiment proposed in this text would enable an immediate need to be met while taking the time for reflection and impact assessment. The successful results of the "Long-term Unemployed Territories" scheme demonstrate the usefulness of these experiments in the territories. Moreover, experimenting with basic income would later improve the system – or even invalidate it if it were deemed ineffective or counterproductive. The Libertés et Territoires Group is very supportive of the introduction of innovative experiments, especially when they come from local and regional authorities that act as closely as possible to the citizens, in particular by appreciating the scientific and evolutionary method. In this regard, this bill calls for the appointment of a scientific committee not later than six months before the end of the experiment. We agree with the position of the Senate mission, which considers this time to be insufficient. An amendment calling for this Scientific Committee to be present at the outset of the experiment has been proposed in committee, and we are pleased that the rapporteur has given him a favourable opinion. If we are in favour of such experiments, we recognise that there are still doubts about the mechanism presented, as we have seen in committee, where our debates have focused on its unconditionality. Many of you have expressed their concern that unconditionality may have a disincentive effect on work; Others – such as the majority – have argued that basic income is incompatible with their philosophy of employment. Everything can be heard, but we must debate! And let us take advantage of the fact that this text is being discussed in the Chamber to give our arguments! Questions also arise about the financing and sustainability of the departmental finance system, particularly if it is widespread. It is known that the lack of compensation for individual solidarity allowances is a source of discord between the State and the departmental councils. However, let us not open this debate today. Despite the doubts we have expressed, we support the principle of this experiment. It could have fed into the ongoing reflection on the universal income of activity that the Government is working on. We therefore regret the motion for rejection tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which will prevent us from discussing this mechanism and the experiment in general. The necessary improvement of our social protection system, which we all call for, deserves more than a truncated debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC and GDR groups]] This motion to reject is therefore very regrettable. Nevertheless, rapporteur, even if we do not discuss your bill, you will at least have the satisfaction of having, with it, awakened the dead, because since last week the Government has finally talked about the universal income of activity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u46	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u47	We all agree in this House that there is now a real social emergency to which we must provide clear and effective answers. Indeed, the precariousness in which many of our fellow citizens live is intolerable, and our common goal is to ensure a decent standard of living for all, with respect for the dignity of all. In addition, I would like to remind you very briefly that, in order to address the problem of purchasing power, we have voted, in the framework of the 2019 budget, for €6 million of new redistributions to which must be added the 10 billion voted in the context of economic and social emergency measures. However, we now need to find appropriate solutions in the long term. On the basis of the commitments made by the President of the Republic, the Government, together with the poverty plan presented a few months ago, has detailed strong measures, including universal income from labour. A general rapporteur has recently been appointed to ensure its implementation. In addition, the President of the Republic stated that he was prepared to give the local authorities greater room for manoeuvre in terms of experimentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u48	It's recent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u49	That should make you happy, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u50	We're crazy for joy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u51	We are indeed aware of the indispensable role of local elected officials in the national territory...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u52	A year ago, mayors didn't exist! Remember, "Shut up your mayor"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u53	...and I am all the more so since I am myself elected local! However, these experiments still need to respond to the major challenges we face. The basic income scheme that you propose is based on the principle of unconditionality, which puts this text in a way that is contrary to ours. Indeed, since the beginning of this Parliament, we have been working continuously to put in place measures to strengthen the support and occupational integration of people who are furthest removed from employment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our watchword is sustainable employment, which we want to achieve through a massive investment in training, skills and support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u54	It's not incompatible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u55	There it is, real social progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u56	It's precarious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u57	Runoff!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u58	Is this a paradigm shift? Yes, and we do. Two figures will illustrate my point: 49 per cent of those benefiting from the AHR still touch him after four years, and 10 per cent after ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u59	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u60	That's the reality! This observation, which is coupled with the problem of non-use of aid, must not only alert us but also alarm us! In this connection, I would like to quote Claire Pitollat's report, whose conclusions on the beneficiaries of the RSA, which are not called for, indicate that support should be encouraged in access to aid but also in the resumption of activity. We want to fight mass unemployment and get people out of precariousness by investing massively in human resources through training.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u61	To Pôle emploi!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u62	This is our response to the economic changes and needs of our businesses. I would remind you that to date more than 200,000 job offers have not been filled. We must put citizens back at the centre of the game by making them actors in their professional career while helping them to develop it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u63	You're out of the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u64	It is the purpose of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future that has led to a complete overhaul of our vocational training and apprenticeship system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u65	There's work to be done now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u66	To this end, an unprecedented budget of €15 billion over five years has been deployed through ICP, the Skills Investment Plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u67	We see the result!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u68	Young people are not left behind. The 2019 employment budget envisages strengthening schemes such as second chance schools or the youth guarantee that promotes the return to employment of precarious young people between 16 and 25 years of age. This scheme will be extended to 500,000 young people by the end of the quinquennium. Young people under 30 years of age can now sign an apprenticeship contract throughout the year and, once they are apprentices, they will be able to receive state aid of 500 euros to pass their driving licence, which addresses the problems of mobility as well as purchasing power. In order to combat discrimination, we also support experiments for neighbourhoods covered by city policy with the free employment scheme, which will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u69	Jean-Louis Borloo is very happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u70	Nor do I forget the "long-term unemployment zero-territories" system. These measures, as you will have understood, do not call into question the need for social assistance in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u71	What a majority of nickel-plated feet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u72	We need to protect our valuable social protection system, but to protect it we also need to reform it! This is the object of the universal income of activity, which will make it possible to rationalise the payment of these aids and thus guarantee to all "a minimum threshold of dignity". [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In view of these measures, but also of the objectives that we are committed to raising, and like the Members of the majority group, I will reject this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u73	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u74	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u75	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I welcome the initiative taken by the Socialist and Related Group to include in its parliamentary niche a bill for the introduction of a basic income. It's a real subject! However, the question of basic income cannot be separated from the question of work and employment. France is in a dual situation: the unemployment rate has been too high for too long, and the number of people far from the world of work is growing. How can we give the desire for work to a young person whose parents or even grandparents have not been in employment? How can we allow young dropouts to find the way to work without entering the path of social minima? What can be done to get a person out of the labour market back on the train? Giving each woman and man a job is not just for an accounting purpose. Of course, more work can reduce social spending and increase tax revenues through taxes and wage and employer contributions, but giving work to every woman and man in our country has a social stake first. It is a necessity for social cohesion. Every citizen must be able to live and feed his or her family through his or her work: this is the foundation stone of individual freedom. Work is also the gateway to personal and social development, as it allows us to open up to others, to exchange, to improve, to feel useful for ourselves and others. However, I remain convinced of the need for the State and its importance in job creation. We are not an Anglo-Saxon country leaving the invisible hand to do and undo the work. We are France, a country where public authorities have a full place in access to employment: it is up to the State to contribute to equal opportunities, it is up to the State to ensure the reality of the social elevator, it is up to the State to promote professional inclusion. As legislators and as decision-makers, we must create the fiscal and regulatory environment conducive to employment. We must strongly support the companies that create it by simplifying the constraints. We must also accompany the most fragile people to find the way back to work, in particular through integration through economic activity. National solidarity must also help those who do not have the chance to have a job to live in dignity. Let us never forget, in spite of the many criticisms it is subjected to, that we have one of the most generous systems in the world, which holds its role of redistribution and ensures to all a minimum. This system has undergone many changes. He will know more and your text, Mr rapporteur, is part of this desire to make it evolve. As other speakers have pointed out, this issue has been at the heart of the presidential campaign. Benoît Hamon had then mentioned a universal income of existence, and François Fillon had proposed a single social benefit. The President of the Republic, for his part, announced the creation, within the framework of the poverty plan, of a universal income of activity. These various proposals show that we are all looking for a simplification of the maquis of social aid. Our system is so complicated that it is not uncommon for recipients to be unaware that they can benefit from social assistance. This problem was highlighted by the recent decision to increase the activity premium: many people eligible for this aid discovered it during the presidential announcement. Simplification will have the advantage of clarity, both for beneficiaries and for public finances, and will also make the work of the officers responsible for investigating cases more effective. Moreover, it will undoubtedly help to limit fraud to social aid, which is unacceptable. Mr rapporteur, your text proposes either a merger of the RSA base and the activity premium, or this merger, but accompanied by housing aid. This is a first step, but we could go further. We can also join you on the principle of experimentation. Your proposal, which is based on the principle of volunteering, will be open to departments that wish to do so. It also allows different scenarios and is therefore flexible. These experiments, the effectiveness of which is no longer to be proved, are essential for evaluating the proposed devices before their possible generalisation, after adjustments if necessary. In the present case, the departments are applicants. The President of the Republic himself had shown his interest in experiments. Yet we have to see that few of them are successful. Let us allow the departmental councils, which have the responsibility of solidarity, to experiment with innovative arrangements. Let us generalize those who succeed and, when this is not the case, let us return to the previous situation. One of the main measures in your bill, which we welcome with interest, is the opening of social minimums to young people from the age of 18. It should be noted that most social assistance is open from the age of 25. Nicolas Sarkozy, at the time of the creation of the RSA, wanted some young people, especially those who have already worked, to benefit from this aid, thus creating the RSA-young people. More recently, the activity bonus has met its audience, and its success cannot be denied. These responses were expected and important, as poverty among young people, especially those between the ages of 18 and 25, is real and a serious problem. It is indeed the nation's responsibility not to give up its youth. Having said that, Mr rapporteur, we cannot agree to a total opening of social minimums to young people under 25 years of age. I believe deeply in the value of work and consider that it would be a bad signal to start your life with social assistance. Apart from special situations, such as assistance to persons with disabilities, young people can start their working lives in the course of their studies through small jobs. The taste of effort and work is learned: it is not always innate. It is also because of my commitment to the values of work and solidarity that I cannot agree with the principle of unconditionality. The Nation must, I said, maintain its rank and help those in need. No one can be left on the side of the road. However, we must not give the impression that national solidarity is free. The obligation to seek work and employment must be a minimum: it is a requirement. We have entered a period when, alas, it can be suggested that there would be only rights. These are the corollary of duties, some of which cannot go without others. The right to benefit from social minimums is linked to the duty of the individual to show his or her motivation, which does not detract from the State's obligation to accompany him or her. People are often desperate and demotivated and they don't know how to get the head out of the water: we have to look at this reality in the face. It is then up to the State to intervene.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u76	So to the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u77	The answer cannot, however, lie in the obliteration of duties, but, as I have said and I repeat, in the accompaniment of those concerned, in order to enable them to be able to fulfil their duties. At The Republicans, we remain firmly rooted in this philosophy. Finally, Mr rapporteur, in considering your proposal for a law, we must not exclude the question of the financing of the proposed measures. According to the Institute for Public Policy, on the basis of the data on the RSA in 2016, and in the configuration required by the proposed law, i.e. without losers, an additional cost of EUR 16 billion and EUR 25 billion would have to be expected if housing subsidies were to be included. On this subject, which is obviously important for the State budget, the economic capacity to do so cannot be excluded from our collective reflection, particularly in view of the financial situation in our country. In short, Mr rapporteur, we note that your bill is far from the proposal supported by your party's candidate in the last campaign for the presidential election. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is realistic, pragmatic and based on a satisfactory willingness to experiment, for the sole purpose of combating precariousness. However, we cannot follow you, on the one hand with regard to the opening to the public of less than 25 years, and on the other hand with regard to the non-conditionality of the device. That is why the Republican Group will refrain from voting on your text as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u78	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u79	The text we are going to examine proposes to experiment with the payment of basic income in several voluntary departments. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his work and for the quality of his hearings. I would also like to stress this extremely positive fact: proposals for experimentation come directly from the territories, although it is regrettable that the proposal in question has not been able to attract the interest of departments of various political colours. The MODEM and related group partly shares the point made by this bill: yes, to combat non-recourse, which is now too important, we need to simplify our benefit system. The figures for this phenomenon speak: 36 per cent of those entitled to active solidarity income do not take steps to collect it. This proportion is also too high in the case of the activity premium, since it is estimated that its non-recourse rate is close to 30%. We are fully aware of the major challenge posed by the fight against non-recourse: important work must therefore take place on this subject. It also aims to combat youth poverty by integrating them into the proposed scheme. We need to think about a way to integrate the 18-25 year olds who today do not perceive the RSA, while certain situations would justify it amply. Indeed, the youth of our country is particularly affected by poverty. Efforts are being made, in particular thanks to the increase in the youth guarantee – with 100,000 new places open from the 2019 budget – and to the investment for young people without qualifications made through the ICP. In any case, we cannot tolerate that more than 25 per cent of people under the age of 30 live below the poverty line: we must continue to remedy this situation. However, a few points in this text seem to us to present some difficulties. Firstly, if, of course, we need to facilitate the use of social benefits, automaticity cannot, in our view, be set up without compensation. These counterparties are not intended to complicate the use of basic income or its payment, but rather to accompany beneficiaries: it does not seem to us to be appropriate to pay the benefit without linking it to the obligation of follow-up by the beneficiary. Enrolment in an integration pathway, with more or less sustained support depending on the beneficiary's profile, seems essential to the proper functioning of our system. The automatic payment of a benefit must not relieve us of the need to accompany the persons concerned, the aim being that they will come out of these arrangements at the end of the day. Indeed, 50% of RSA recipients have been recipients for at least four years, so we need to step up our efforts to get them out of the precarious situation. Not abandoning them to their fate is the responsibility of our society. Counterparts to the payment that meet this objective should therefore be examined. We must also consider the nature of benefits to be included in future basic income. This text proposes to include the RSA, the business bonus and possibly the APLs. If this is an interesting way of working, we can also think about the integration of other social minimums, such as the disabled adult allowance, the solidarity allowance for the elderly or the additional disability allowance. The linkage of arrangements of a different nature requires, beyond the consultation of the actors, a serious impact assessment, as well as a wide-ranging debate in Parliament. Indeed, combining benefits related to solidarity, professional activity, housing policy or family policy into a single payment requires us to become aware of the impact of this evolution on our societal representations, without assuming its positive or negative nature. On the other hand, an in-depth impact assessment would also make sure that the merger of aid will not lead to losses. The issue of the spectrum of beneficiaries should also be studied. While, as I said earlier, the fight against poverty in the 18-25 age group is a major issue and an objective shared by the MODEM group, the payment of an unconditional and automatic basic income to this audience raises a number of questions. Should the family situation of young people be taken into account and adjusted accordingly? Are there any risks of dropping out of school? It is absolutely necessary – even more than for the older ones – to accompany this public who do not always have a professional project. For this youth audience, the transition to experimentation, whether in the context of this bill or the future universal income of activity, the RUA, seems to me to make sense. During the presentation of the poverty plan, the President of the Republic indicated his wish to work towards a reform aimed at ensuring a better use of social benefits and a simplification of their obtaining. The AUA will be an innovative aid scheme for people with low resources and whose payment will be automatic, as there will be no steps to collect it, which would be a major step forward in access to rights. The aim is to ensure better access to the latter, but also to encourage beneficiaries to find or find a job or an activity. That is why the payment of this income will not be unconditional. Our group wishes to participate actively in this reflection on this major issue in order to achieve a result that will combine efficiency and social justice. We have to go fast, because there is an urgent need: to go through an experiment would delay the implementation of an essential measure for the French. However, we cannot ignore any real reflection in order to examine the various avenues of work. This is the heavy task for the general rapporteur on the reform of the universal income of activity, Mr Fabrice Lenglart, who was appointed a few days ago and is expected to submit his report before the end of 2019. This forthcoming reform, which will deal with a merger of social supplementary income, will not mean that we will have to exonerate ourselves, in the future, from a broader debate on the desirability of a universal income going beyond the logic of income supplementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u80	It's getting less and less clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u81	Pure sectarianism, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u82	It is for these different reasons that the MODEM and related group will not be able to support this bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u83	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u84	First of all, I salute all those who have come to the sitting to defend, through their support, this proposal for a law of experimentation. May I be allowed to be a little chauvin by greeting in particular Paul Carrère, vice-president of the Landes department. The day we spent in the Committee on Social Affairs last Wednesday lit up with a very raw light, once again – but in a singular context, that of the famous national debate – deafness, not to say the sectarianism of the majority. Not only was no proposal for a law of the Socialist and related groups voted without having been emptied of its substance – I am thinking here of the work of Dominique Potier and Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe on the creation of a fund to compensate the victims of plant protection products and that of Christophe Bouillon on the inclusive school – but some, such as Guillaume Garot on the medical deserts, saw all their articles rejected one after the other, so that there was nothing left to put to the vote of the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u85	When there's an emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u86	It was also the sad fate reserved for the bill currently defended by our rapporteur Hervé Saulignac, who proposes to experiment with a basic income from the age of 18. Yet it is the fruit of a great debate – certainly not of the great national debate – that we had imagined the method might suit you, since more than 15,000 contributions were received to feed this reflection. It also relies on a demanding, long, patient expertise of high-level researchers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u87	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u88	While the Court of Auditors sent a referral to the Prime Minister last June on the largely unsatisfactory quality of impact studies, you had the opportunity to feed on quality scientific work: a form of impact study conducted by the Institute of Public Policy. This approach has also emerged from the field, as 18 departments have been engaged for the past two years in this work of consultation and consultation: they have conducted dozens and dozens of public meetings. The resultant legislative work is not, unlike others, a circumstance, but rather a reflection on the daily lives of our fellow citizens aimed at the most precarious of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u90	Finally, it is based on a method which, I believe, is in your favour, if I believe the President of the Republic's words: that of experimentation, which presupposes that one can be mistaken and that one is not engulfed in certainties which eventually become ideologies. I fear, however, that the only experiment you are willing to consent to is, as David Habib would say, yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u91	[[Smile]] Very good formula!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u92	Very good author!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u93	Despite your bad manners last week in committee, today you have the opportunity to seriously examine this proposal, which is based on a few simple principles. First principle: a right from the age of 18. Think of the fate that is reserved for our youth, criminally responsible at 16 years old, civicly major at 18 years old, but which, socially, is only major at 25 years old, and which never ceases to deteriorate between 18 and 25 years old! It is not with the universal national service that you will offer young people the future that it deserves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u94	No way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u95	Or with the end of the aided contracts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u96	Young people who leave their homes, find it difficult to find a job, and who drop out get considerably worse between the ages of 18 and 25. That is why we proposed, and why we are now proposing this experiment to the national representation from the age of 18. The second principle is the simplification of our social policy, thanks to the consolidation of several benefits. Each voluntary department will have the choice of experimenting either with a simplified benefit replacing the RSA and the activity premium, or with an extended benefit combining the RSA, the activity premium and the housing subsidies. Third principle: that of automaticity, in order to avoid the scourge of non-use. This automaticity is also a sign that it is not an aid that is requested or an assistance that is obtained, but a right for all, which defeats the accusation of assistance and is attached to the dignity of each person. Fourth principle: unconditionality, which you accuse us of while it strengthens the relationship between the assignee and his adviser, since the latter no longer has the dual mission – the double cap – to accompany and control. It can thus devote itself fully to the accompaniment of the person who benefits from the scheme. Yes, unconditionality, for – allow me to quote the excellent Maxime Sauvage – unconditionality is a humanism. It is the way in which a society takes care of the weakest that one considers its degree of development. Whatever words are used to stigmatize them or simply refer to them – "breaks of life", "marginal", "unsuited", "excluded" – all these people need us and we can't just tell them: "Accept two reasonable job offers or you will lose your allowances. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u98	There is no need to explain to you in these circumstances how different our project is from the presidential roadmap for a universal income of activity – words rarely able to hide reality – which would put under conditions until the allowance for adults with disabilities, as if it were enough to get up and cross the street to find a job. Fifth principle: degression, because we do not want to disincentive to work. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a new proposal, which draws lessons from a number of failures, which we are making, as you do, the observation. Would you like to experiment with it? Would you like to evaluate it? Would you like to show less blindness than in the last twenty months and hear the call to the order of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u99	It's gonna be hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u100	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] You're put to the test!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u101	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u102	We are all witnessing the unprecedented and profound crisis that our country has been going through for more than two months and which reveals the existential questioning of our economic and social models. The observation is unanimous from one side to the other of the political class. That is why I would like first of all to welcome the spirit of justice and solidarity that drives this bill. Indeed, it is absolutely imperative that the ras-le-bol and the suffering that have been expressed lead us collectively to a fundamental reflection on national cohesion and the support that we owe to the most fragile. It is this will that inspired the Government's poverty plan, which, I recall, was launched on 13 September 2018 and inspired some of the proposals that we are studying today. Among the flagship measures of this plan are the recasting and simplification of social minima, as well as more effective support for employment. The purpose of this bill is to establish a basic income that would be a solidarity income to redress injustices, a development income to help those who fail to live from their activities and would give autonomy to French people left behind, such as young people under 24 years of age, caregivers of persons with disabilities or volunteers. The proposed model would be based on the merger of the RSA, the activity premium and, possibly, housing subsidies. The idea and principle are noble. However, we must look at the spirit of such an experiment. Where does this idea of a basic income come from? It was born out of the failure of the RMI and then of the RSA to achieve their goal of social inclusion. The solution advocated in the bill would be the payment of a single, automatic and unconditional social benefit from the age of 18. The first pitfall here is unconditionality. Access to basic income would be without conditions of integration, training or any commitment. However, this is one of the main criticisms made at the RSA: not enough to promote a return to employment and also to be very unequal from one department to another. Because we have failed to reintegrate, should we give up any effort to do better? It is not at all the philosophy of the reforms that we are undertaking. We do not want to encourage dependency and keep beneficiaries there, but rather to accompany them and put them back to work. In order to promote a return to employment, it is necessary to offer these vulnerable people a renewed qualification path in their content. Everyone must be responsible and lead to a personal approach to integration. However, integration takes place through accompaniment and work, not through an unconditional income which would not be attached to any duty on the part of the beneficiaries. What, moreover, is the consultation necessary to succeed in such a reform? It should be pointed out that the executive of the candidate departments are all from the previous majority, but many others are opposed to this experiment or diverge on the perimeter of the possible basic income. The association of the départements of France has also expressed its distrust of this proposal, as well as of trade unions of employees. The Government's objective is much more ambitious. The aim is to establish a "guarantee of activity", by means of social support and a genuine training policy, a "public service of integration". The State will guarantee this in order to ensure universal and equal protection throughout the national territory. As part of this poverty reduction strategy, the Government is also proposing the creation of a universal income of activity. Our system of social minima needs to be renovated to end non-recourses. Universal business income will merge as many benefits as possible for greater clarity and visibility. The reform will be accompanied by simplification and even automation of administrative procedures. I will conclude by addressing the issue of timing. With a three-year experiment in only a few territories, it would not be possible to achieve a generalization until 2025. For its part, the Government provided for a generalization of universal income by the end of the quinquennium, i.e. in 2022. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, and despite the good feelings behind this bill, I am against its passage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u103	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u104	France is faced with a particularly serious crisis, of which the movement of yellow vests is the most cunning expression. Yes, today, French people are no longer able to live with dignity from the fruit of their work. The issue we are talking about today is therefore crucial. Crucial, because 9 million French people live below the poverty line. Crucial, because more than 10% of our employees are paid at SMIC and have difficulty living there. Crucial, because many pensioners live, or rather survive, with a few hundred euros a month. Crucial, because our farmers are facing an intolerable situation: one third of them earn less than 350 euros a month. Monday, I was in Béziers with members of the Chamber of Crafts and Crafts. This is also a dramatic fact: the leaders of TPEs and SMEs are at a standstill. Every week, in France, two of them commit suicide – a figure that is little quoted. Crushed by the charges, drowned under the paperwork, they can't afford to pay properly. They feel abandoned by the Government, which, in their terms, is for large groups only. These are conditions that can only discourage entrepreneurship, whereas SMEs are, as we know, the first employer in France. That is why I can only welcome the will, at the heart of this text, to fight against this impoverishment. Nevertheless, I tell you, the introduction of a basic income is a bad idea. This will not bring any of the structural solutions that our country needs. What so many French people are asking for is to live from their work, not from social assistance and additional resources. Let's make it clear: working is not just making a living, it is giving dignity to one's life. To work is to make sense of its existence. Of course, improvements are needed. It is necessary to continue to combat the non-use of allowances and to study certain special cases which are not eligible for aid. One example is that family leave is still not compensated and it would not be illogical for the persons concerned to benefit from the AHR. However, making basic income an unconditional and automatic aid would be a hindrance to the integration of some, a bonus for the resignation of others and a bad signal to many, especially the younger ones. Extend this measure to children under 25 years of age? But scholarships exist for students from the poorest families! Persons under the age of 25 with dependent children are eligible for the RSA. Those who have worked for two years can benefit from it. Perhaps the eligibility conditions for the RSA "young active" should be relaxed, but certainly not extended to all. Your basic income proposal sends a bad message. It does not value the work of the most modest employees – studies clearly show this – and it de-responsibles policies, which no longer have a heart to change things. In the end, it will be accepted that workers have insufficient wages by compensating them with allowances. It's a mistake; It's a mistake. We have to get out of this logic. We are not just facing a problem of purchasing power. Between the deterioration of public services, the devitalisation of city centres and the deterioration of the social link, a whole part of the population is gradually marginalized. Creating an unconditional basic income means missing out on the real issue. It is to accept – I would say even: it is to support – the marginalization, the exclusion of a whole part of our population from the world of work, that is to say, the true social dignity. Of course, we must be sensitive, we must help those who have the most difficulty entering the labour market, those who go from CSD to CSD, from precarious work to seasonal work, but be careful: once again, the work built you, gives you a spine. Let's not let our defending body hear that we could live without working. It is another music that must come out of this assembly: that everyone must be able to work; that everyone must be able to live from his or her work; that everyone has an obligation to seek work; that everyone can be realized in their work. An ode – yes, a real ode to work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u105	Mrs Claire Pitollat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u106	This morning we are considering the proposal for a law on territorial experimentation aimed at establishing a basic income. We all want our society to finally provide a strong response in order to combat the determinism of poverty and to provide support in accidents of life. We all need solidarity and human accompaniment at one point in our lives. I believe that the ambition of a fairer, more humane society that leaves no one on the edge of the road is widely shared in our House. Basic income is an ancient idea, which has taken many forms. It was a subject of debate during the last presidential campaign – presented, it is true, in a rather confused way. Today, the Socialist and related group is the voice of eighteen departments that demand the experimentation of a form of basic income on their territory. I do not think this bill is desirable – our debates in committee have shown this. Indeed, it would not bring any improvement to social integration policies in the experimenting territories, for several reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u107	The goal is to clarify things!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u108	And you have to experiment before you draw conclusions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u109	First, a part of the text is already feasible, if not always realized. Indeed, providing solidarity income and support to enable beneficiaries to bounce back and carry out their projects is already an obligation. Then we disagree with you about the very idea of a basic income unconditionality. This would run counter to the spirit of the reforms which have been carried out and which ensure a balance between rights and duties in order to always promote autonomy, responsibility, freedom to form and choose the appropriate accompaniment. Accompaniment to return to employment is, moreover, too often forgotten an aspect of active solidarity income. I would like to point out here some figures: over the whole of the country, there are 30% non-recourses to the RSA; 40% of beneficiaries receive no support six months after the first payment and 15% two years later. It is far too long and insufficient: it is no longer questionable only the accompaniment towards employment, it works! Innovation in the territories shows this; there is no need for further experimentation for this. On the other hand, and in order to keep to the question of unconditionality, you know that the French do not expect this from solidarity. The rightholders, who share their experience and difficulties in accessing rights, simply ask us to regard them as everyone, i.e. as full-fledged actors in society, bringing their personal wealth, their skills and their desires.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u110	They're on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u111	Proposing an unconditional basic income may sound very generous, but it's just a touchstone to give yourself a good conscience. It's a dead end.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u112	Come on, all the same...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u113	For creating an unconditional basic income also means removing obligations for the communities responsible for this policy. But the reciprocal commitments, which are mandatory today, are the rapprochement between citizens and the institutions. We need to restore this link because it is fundamental when we talk about solidarity. This is the whole purpose of contracting with the departments. Finally, the text faces political, financial and technical obstacles. Political, because the eighteen voluntary departments for basic income do not have the support of the Assembly of the French departments and all have the same political colour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u114	Would the departments be under guardianship? What a disconnect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u115	This leaves room for thought as to the actual support for the bill, and this illustrates a fairly clear substantive disagreement. The obstacles are also financial, because the applicant departments have a good idea of volunteering for an experiment that they will not fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u116	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u117	This is new!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u118	This would therefore be an additional burden on the State, whereas it is the departments that have the responsibility for the policy of solidarity. Finally, the obstacle is technical, because the merger of a number of social aid schemes is a much more complex task than it seems. This requires dialogue with each other on information systems that operate in silos. The Government is already in the process of doing so. Within the framework of the poverty plan, it provides technical support to the departments, as indicated to us by the inter-ministerial delegate for the prevention and fight against poverty of children and young people during the hearings on the text. One of the objectives being automaticity, why start an experiment on what is obvious? In conclusion, I would like to say that we do not reject this text blindly, as we are wrongly accused of doing. The debate exists, we accept it and we take our part in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u119	Hence the motion to reject it beforehand?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u120	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The President of the Republic launched the poverty plan last September. This includes the establishment of a universal income for activity in 2020, for which all departments, without partisan distinction, are called upon to co-build. The year 2020 is the necessary deadline, and much shorter than your proposed law, to build a solid public policy in a society where the best vehicle for social inclusion is work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u121	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u122	Let me go back to a few points. As far as young people are concerned, our paper, in the framework of the concertation, is still white on the universal income: we must therefore write it together. We must also ask ourselves all the underlying questions; I mean the link with the family quotient and family benefits, the fiscal connection, the link with student scholarships and the financing of vocational training. In the meantime, we are mobilising additional means to promote the accession to the youth guarantee, but also to experiment with it in territories which, in practice, are deprived of it because the scheme is too rigid. This experiment will make it possible to adapt it to young people and territorial specificities. So we're continuing the experiment. I have read the work you have done, and we will use it: I have told you, as I have told the eighteen presidents of departments that I have received. I have even asked the departments that have seized the subject to work with us on the universal income of activity, but also on the public service of integration, for which consultation has begun. We will enrich your work thanks to Mr.Lenglart's work, which began a few days ago. But let me tell you this, we have been taking this subject together for more than a year, through the consultation launched upstream in the framework of the strategy for preventing and combating poverty. So it's not true to say that we did it just a few days ago. By the end of the quinquennium, EUR 8 billion will be committed as part of the poverty prevention and reduction strategy; Our plan is drawn up with all the actors in the fields of medical, social and social, i.e. the departments, but also, because they are not alone in working on this subject, the CCAS – communal centres of social action –, the CIAS – intercommunal centres of social action –, associations, local missions and social centres. This plan was unanimously welcomed by the actors who designed it. The experiment, you say, will not take place; But, I repeat, the sheet is white, and we have to write it together. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, it is wrong to equate accompaniment with a sanction. For twenty years I have been accompanying certain publics, spending time with them, in particular to ensure their professional integration, without ever seeking to sanction them, deprive them of the RSA or reduce their benefits. I say this, with my 20 years of experience in this field: you cannot reduce social support to a sanction. Finally, within the framework of the strategy, fourteen territories have already entered into a contract for experimentation, including four departments, to which others will be associated shortly. For them, the contracting represents an envelope of EUR 20 million per year from the State. It is therefore a strong commitment, to which we must add the 100 million of the social investment fund that we will open in the coming days. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So I cannot agree with the idea that the state does nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u123	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u124	I want to react, on two points. What irony is there, Madam Secretary of State, to thank us for opening a debate which the LaREM Group is about to reject by defending a motion to reject! Let me tell you, it's a big debate outside, a little debate here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u126	In this forum, it is national representation that is expressed; In our political history, perhaps there has never been such a need for democracy, and you deprive us of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u128	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] Secondly, you are stifling not only the democratic expression of the National Assembly, but also the initiative of eighteen communities, eighteen departments, which represent 12 million inhabitants. You can't take refuge behind ADF when 12 million of our fellow citizens speak on the pretext that they won't be enough to suit your taste! [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Finally, the timetable that you are referring to seems totally abrasive to me. It is in 2020, you said, that the law on the universal income of activity will be presented. Very well, but for an application on what date? In fact, you won't save on an experiment. As Mrs Pitollat herself pointed out, the implementation of such an income is very complex. For your part, Madam Secretary of State, you said you had only one white leaf in your hands. But we're coming with a leaf that's not! It's the result of a lot of community work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u129	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u130	If you were as realistic as you claimed, you would have responded not only to the request of these eighteen departments, but also to the words of the President of the Republic himself, who, in September, in presenting the poverty plan, encouraged you to experiment in the departments that were ready to do so. That is the case today. [[Murmures on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So we are in a shambles of parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u131	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u132	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Pierre Dharréville also applauds]] It is not only the departments and communities that you despise in their creative capacity, it is also the parliamentary initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u133	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République en marche group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u134	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u135	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u136	On the threshold of this speech, I would like to pay tribute to the representatives of the departments present here today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u137	They're happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u138	The proposal for a law of territorial experimentation to establish a basic income, submitted by the Socialist and related group, is contained in ten articles. It is inspired by eighteen of the thirty departmental socialist councils, which themselves are members of the Assembly of the French Departments, which has ninety-six.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u139	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] These eighteen departments represent 12 million inhabitants, out of a total of 70 million! It's a pretty good ratio!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u140	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, let Mrs Iborra speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u141	Indecentness, morals exist in politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u142	We talked about the elected representatives present among us; They have listened to all the speakers in the general debate, and are now listening to Ms. Iborra in support of her motion. You can answer him in the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u143	You have presented, Mr rapporteur, this bill as an innovative one, when, as you know, the concept of universal income, or basic income, appears periodically since the 16th century. Controversy, often liberal – and sometimes Marxist – inspired, many take advantage of it by giving it very different, if not irreconcilable, meanings, objectives and modalities. [["Ah! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is this great conceptual plasticity that, I suppose, explains the vagueness of your bill. Closer to us, in 2016, under François Hollande's mandate, the government had twice refused to experiment with basic income, as proposed by the Socialist Senate Group, which, I must say, had submitted a highly reasoned information report at the end of 2016. In May 2016, a working group on universal income, within the Jean Jaurès Foundation, published a document entitled: "Basic income: from utopia to experimentation. "The implementation of basic income does not seem to us to adequately address the challenges of social protection in the 21st century and raise many questions about its socio-economic implications. » As I know, yesterday we received a document that contradicts this opinion expressed in 2016. Without being opportunistic, the arguments, it is obvious, can sharpen, and eventually diverge after a little more than a year. At the end of 2016, the Senate report...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u144	We're not in the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u145	... stated: "The conditions for [the] introduction [of a basic income] in our country are not met to date. Indeed, basic income today has not demonstrated its advantages over other developments in our social system. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u146	We have to experiment with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u147	All this belongs to the past; let us now look at the future. We agree on the findings. Since the creation of the RMI – minimum income for integration – by Michel Rocard in 1988, then the RSA by Martin Hirsch in 2008, successive governments have continued their quest for activation of social spending – or how can we reconcile the imperative of an income with the incentive to seek and find a job? To entrust the departments today with the policy of social and occupational integration of the beneficiaries of the RSA highlights the fact that our model is insufficiently geared towards the return to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u148	We propose not to impose it on everyone, but to experiment with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u149	Saying this, we do not incriminate anyone: responsibility is collective. Nevertheless, only 10 per cent of RSA beneficiaries return to employment during the year, while work is the primary factor in poverty prevention. For at least four years, 49 per cent of RSA beneficiaries have received it, and the rate of non-use of this benefit is estimated at 30 per cent. For its part, the Court of Auditors estimates the annual cost of errors of benefits, which have never been identified or recovered, at more than EUR 2 billion. Finally, 50% of beneficiaries are still not accompanied when they have entered the system for six months. Christophe Sirugue, whom you knew well as I did, was already denouncing this reality, at the time he was a Socialist MP, during a hearing in the Senate: while the creation of the RMI had been accompanied by an obligation to devote 20% of the aid envelope to integration policies, this obligation has disappeared. Only 7 per cent of the allowances paid are currently devoted to these policies. On the basis of this recent observation, it could have been expected that the departments would have proposed an experiment aimed at substantially improving the policies for which they were responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u150	Without financial compensation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u151	Well, no: what you are proposing to us is a new monetary allocation, called basic income, conditional on resources but unconditionally granted, which for us is unacceptable. What we propose to you, as part of the poverty plan, is...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u152	Nothing! Not the beginning of a proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u153	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u154	...to replace an administratively designed system that is insufficiently adapted to the reality of people's needs: the beneficiaries of the RSA need sustained support, both social and professional, but they are only 10% to benefit from it today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u155	She's gonna finish at MODEM!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u156	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u157	But let her talk, at last!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u158	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u159	It is in this perspective that contracts between the State and ten departments and metropolises – including Toulouse and Nantes – volunteers, called "demonstrator territories", are being finalized. Our priority...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u160	It's the policy of turning a jacket!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u161	... our priority, I said, which should be yours, is a strategy to combat poverty oriented towards social investment – the two main words of which are prevention and accompaniment – rather than monetary redistribution; a strategy favouring support and services rather than providing unconditional benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u162	David, react!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u163	I'm terrified!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u164	Yes, we're terrified!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u165	Like you, we want to invest in young people, not by providing them with unconditional income, but by relying on them from an early age, by working proactively to prevent today's poor children from being the poor adults of tomorrow, by developing and investing in skills, thanks to the plan of investment in skills...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u166	From an old socialist, it's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u167	..., by launching a call for projects for the identification and mobilization of "invisible" young people, by extending the youth guarantee and by revaluing the activity premium, for the benefit of farmers and the self-employed in particular. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] You understand, our project...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u168	Which one?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u169	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] ... is different from yours, whereas this should not be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u170	In a month, you're going to change it! In a year's time, you'll have changed your party!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u171	The socialists speak to the socialists...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u172	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] [[Same movements]] [[The exclamations on the SOC benches cover the voice of the speaker]] It is more difficult to achieve, because much more demanding when we do not want to treat, like you, the symptom, but disease. That is precisely what we are going to do thanks to the universal income of activity. Finally, your project is far from unanimous...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u173	Because you're unanimous?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u174	... in substance, but also from the point of view of its operationality. As for the substance, first of all, only eighteen departments out of ninety-six are signatories to your proposal,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u175	Of which your department!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u176	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] ...which is not unanimous among the socialists themselves. [[Same movements]] The Assemblée des départements de France – ADF – is not at the origin of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u177	Let the speaker go on, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u178	No, Madam President! We have the right to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u179	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u180	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u181	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u182	The Chairman of the ADF Committee on Solidarity and Social Affairs has recently expressed his support for "work for all rather than basic income". [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] The hearings that I conducted for six months and the reports of Claire Pitollat and Christine Cloarec prepared our own universal income project, which provides for automaticity. You didn't make it up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u183	This bodes well for the great national debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u184	A monologue! That of an arrogant majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u185	Let us therefore discuss our proposal, instead of rejecting it from the outset!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u186	The hearings conducted by the rapporteur of the bill also showed the scepticism of associations working against poverty and the opposition of trade union organisations, among others. According to estimates, the cost of opening up basic income to people between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five years...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u187	Which you prefer to send under the flag, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u188	... a cost that you do not mention in your bill, could go up to an additional 18 billion euros per year, that is more than the current amount of the RSA – 11 billion – and the premium of activity – 7 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u189	You threw away 10 billion euros without financing them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u190	In addition, you are asking the State to co-finance the experiment, while financial contracts are already planned to accompany the integration policies of the departments in order to make them more efficient. As for the applicability of the calendar, three years of experimentation would lead us to a possible generalization in 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u191	And your position, how long will it last?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u192	[[Protests on the SOC benches]] Beyond our substantive divergence, the vagueness of the proposals you make in the text makes us think, without calling into question the principle of experimentation, that it has been prepared in haste. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the SOC benches]] That is what, both in substance and in form, leads us to want to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u193	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u194	Mrs. Iborra has to be fired!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u195	On the motion of rejection, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u196	You said, Mr rapporteur, that there was no debate. There was one in committee; There will be another in the review of the Universal Activity Income text in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u197	Why not today?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u198	[[Protests on the benches of the SOC and LR groups]] There will therefore be parliamentary debates, and I invite you, particularly in the framework of the consultation, to come and discuss with us...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u199	Two years of consultation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u200	[[Same movements]] ...as I invited the representatives of the departments. I invite all members of Parliament and senators to work with us on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u201	No, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u202	[[Same movements]] The concertation...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u203	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u204	[[Same movements]] Concertation is a preamble to the discussion: there will be a legislative text on which both chambers will have every opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u205	It's like the big national debate! What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u206	Excuse me, Madam Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go on like this! Let the Secretary of State speak! You were able to speak for yourself; the rapporteur may then do so; Then you will speak again for your explanation of vote on the motion. Stop it, or else, no one hears anything anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u207	Sometimes it's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u208	Elected officials and others came here to listen to the debate. A little calm, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u209	We want ministers, not amateurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u210	Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u211	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the SOC benches]] I come to what you said, Mr rapporteur, about the commitment of the President of the Republic when he presented the national strategy for preventing and combating poverty. If you propose a solution to the technical problem of implementing basic income through experimentation, we would like to stress one point of political divergence: unconditionality. For us, who says accompaniment does not say sanction, and the accompaniment is also the reform of the public service of integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u212	What a brilliance...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u213	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u214	Mrs. Iborra, you've chained the caricatures to this point...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u215	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u216	...that I will not take them back one by one, which will avoid prolonging the debates. You talked about rush. If, for you, three years of work is rush, we do not have the same notion of the time that passes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u217	It's mostly contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u218	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] You also spoke of blurry and, above all, cast reproach on a work marked by the seal of scientific rigour: it was researchers, academics, economists who produced it, and not elected officials defending a vague proposal to take their revenge after the presidential election! You're really a long way from reality. But, as I am of good composition, I will note that we agree on one point: the heart of the subject is the accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u219	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u220	[[MM. Serge Letchimy and Dominique Potier approve]] [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Here's an unstoppable equation. In France, 5.5 million people of working age – i.e. over 16 years of age – do not have a job, whereas the country can now offer, at best, 400,000 jobs. As we speak, more than 5 million people are therefore inexorably deprived of employment. Where do you want to go with them? To jobs that don't exist? How are you going to treat them? What answer do you want to give them? [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] If you ignore this terrible social equation, you simply miss the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u221	She completely forgot it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u222	Finally, you said that our bill was far from unanimous. If unanimity is the condition for a bill to come to your attention, I do not believe that the opposition, whatever it may be, will one day have the chance to have one of its texts adopted here: in this respect, unanimity does not exist; you will experience it about your own universal business income project. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Many SOC Members stand up and continue to applaud]] I will conclude with this quote: "As long as it is not possible to guarantee everyone a job, it will be necessary, as a remedy, to guarantee everyone an income. She's not mine, she's thirty, she's from Michel Rocard, and she should inspire you a little more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u223	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Luc Carvounas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u224	As you prepare to vote on the motion to reject it, you are showing, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your incoherence, inconsistency and carelessness. Your inconsistency, first of all: who said that local elected officials would be free "to experiment with new public policies, but also to innovate", if not Emmanuel Macron, in July 2017?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u225	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u226	Who wants to facilitate experimentation by reforming the Constitution? You! [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Your inconsistency, then, more precisely that of the link you have with the territories and with the local elected representatives. Emmanuel Macron finally decided to renew the dialogue with the mayors and listen to them, but let him also listen to the eighteen departmental presidents who have already established the basic income! Your carelessness, finally – it's the most serious – in the face of social emergency. We do not propose to shave free of charge, nor on the big evening, but an operational, innovative and efficient device. By your refusal to examine our text, it is simply once again the dialogue with the parliamentary opposition that you refuse, to the detriment of the most precarious. 9 million French people live below the poverty line, 17% of whom are 18 to 24 years old, and 36% of those eligible for the RSA do not – they are 26% for the activity premium. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] To sum up your position, the automaticity and unconditionality of an income that allows you to live with dignity, it is not, but to remove automatically and unconditionally the tax on wealth for the richest, it is yes! Therefore, the Socialist and related group will obviously not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u227	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u228	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u229	If the IUD, Action and Independent Group has indicated some points of divergence regarding the text, it is in principle opposed, as you know, to motions for prior rejection. Unsurprisingly, we will therefore vote against it. In this case, I find it a pity that the National Assembly is depriving itself of an opportunity to debate when we all agree on the social urgency and the urgency of dialogue. We could have discussed the proposed experiment and the place of the departments in the social organization. We could have discussed the precarious situation of some young people between the ages of 18 and 25, in line with the proposal for a law by the President of the Committee on Social Affairs to strengthen the support of young people who are vulnerable to autonomy. We could also have fed into the Government's thinking – whose sincerity is not in doubt. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and SOC groups]] That is why we voted against the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u231	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u232	The Group's substantive arguments France has been exposed very well previously by Jean-Hugues Ratenon. We support the idea of experimentation. I can't believe it. We heard earlier that, since you are organizing a national debate, we should address the subject in this context and not discuss it here. This is not acceptable, it is not tolerable; It's not even intellectually honest. Last night, we debated your anti-casseurs proposal: why therefore submit it to us, since the "great national debate" is not over? This clearly shows the true nature of this "great national debate": it is a trick. We do not want these Tupperware meetings at which we are invited to discuss and discuss constantly so that in the end you are the only ones to decide the topics to be chosen. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] There was a relevant bill here, which, despite our slight differences, is at least a willingness to experiment. You disagree on the substance and, I insist, you use this trick of the "great national debate" to evacuate everything you do not want, which shows its emptiness and anti-republican character – because we are national representation. This confirms in any case that we are right not to participate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u233	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u234	We have all understood that what is unconditional among the "walkers" is permanent assistance to the richest. And their permanent position is to put a systematic stop to the debate, so that only the texts tabled by the majority are examined in the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u235	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u236	This shows great rigidity and ideological poverty. I would add that your arrogance and condescendence are becoming more and more difficult to endure. The Communist MEPs would have liked this text to be discussed, first to move forward on a difficult ideological issue, then to make proposals in favour of young people, of the most precarious audiences, and finally to consolidate as much as possible the work with the communities of everyday life as the departments and communes are. You therefore encourage, through your attitude, the Communist deputies to attack you in front of you on the occasion of their "parliamentary niche" on March 7th.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u237	You already do it every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u238	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] We can't work with you. We will therefore table our proposals for a law on the restoration of the tax on capital, on the scale of the income tax, on the increase of the SMIC by 200 euros net. We will face the same arrogance, the same rigidity on your part, but at least we will clarify the political debate, facing the right which you represent increasingly sovereignly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u239	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u240	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u241	This bill addresses a real problem. The proof of this is that it has given rise to intense and interesting debates in the Committee on Social Affairs. It raises the question of the place of work, of everyone's participation in society, of the consideration that everyone seeks to feel belonging to a social body, elements that contribute to this "living together" so badly done today. Our colleagues propose that we reflect on new ways of exercising solidarity, emancipation, ways of combating poverty and social injustice. Of course, this text has its limits. Some mentioned funding, others feared that basic income would encourage disincentives to work as it would be paid without compensation – which I am not convinced of when reading the text. Still others questioned the relevance of opening the scheme to young people under 25 years of age. For our part, we have highlighted the positive points of a single and automatic service, a guarantee of simplification and efficiency. Frankly, rejecting this text would be another missed opportunity. The social service deserves better, the accompaniment of people in difficulty deserves much better than our postures. For all these reasons, Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group welcome the proposal for a mechanism both experimental and from local authorities. The importance of the issue should be given a little more attention. In other words, we should continue this constructive debate in the Chamber, and even if the strategy for preventing and combating poverty has been unveiled by the Government, even if we know that a universal income of activity is being developed, we cannot, as you said, the Secretary of State, examine its modalities before 2020. It is therefore a pity that this bill is about to be swept away. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups]] We therefore deplore this motion of rejection and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u243	Mrs Corinne Vignon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u244	The text before us proposes the experiment of a new social benefit by the departments, which would give rise to a single and unconditional payment to its beneficiaries. If we are in favour of experiments that improve the daily lives of our citizens, we are in this case against the content of the text, which is likely to keep the beneficiaries a little further away from the world of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u245	Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u246	Recall that this bill is far from unanimous in the Assembly of the French departments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u247	Stop with the departments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u248	... and that it is not supported by the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of that House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u249	Let us debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u250	It is only defended by eighteen departmental presidents, some of whom have been able to express their differences on the scope of the basic income. Others are totally opposed to this device. On the part of the workers' unions, it is also not consensual, as is among the anti-poverty associations. It is a shame that your former colleagues did not support the report by Member Sirugue on social minima in 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u251	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u252	It is a shame that your former colleagues, under the Dutch presidency, have rejected a bill for a senatorial law that proposed this type of mechanism. [[Continuous Brouhaha]] Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been working to improve the quality of the work and to make sure that it pays better.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u253	In this respect, your assessment is negative!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u254	The measures taken, the reforms undertaken are intended to contribute to the fulfilment and the accompaniment of the activity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u255	You're amateurs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u256	contrary to the proposal that you swept under the previous quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u257	You'll be swept away soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u258	Colleagues, because we want to treat the disease and not just extinguish its symptoms,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u259	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u260	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... Members of the La République group will vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u261	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u262	Members of the Republican Group will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u263	All right, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u264	All too often, the majority refuses to debate the bills put forward by the opposition groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u265	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u266	A few months later, he left to take up his own ideas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u267	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u268	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] Is that the "new world"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u269	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u270	An income allocated from the age of eighteen years without conditions was never the philosophy defended by the Members of our group, who defend the value of work above all else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u271	Well, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u272	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on many benches of the SOC group]] However, we recognize that this text is the result of a long work, that it is more pragmatic and that it is the result of a genuine commitment to fight poverty and to help vulnerable audiences. Our group shares the desire to simplify, experiment; This will deserves the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u273	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u274	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT and SOC groups]] You're advocating outside dialogue and you're preventing it here. We therefore oppose, I repeat, the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u275	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u276	The MODEM Group partly shares the observation made by our colleagues in the Socialist Group, which led to the drafting of this bill. Our social benefits system is one of the most generous in the world, but it suffers from many imperfections, repeatedly diagnosed, which undermine its effectiveness and which we must correct. Whether it is the rate of non-recourse, which amounts to 36% for active solidarity income – RSA – or the complexity of the steps taken by the beneficiary, the elisibility of the calculation methods or the accompanying deficit, the observation is without appeal: we need to achieve a simpler, clearer, but above all more employment-oriented system. It is a commitment of the President of the Republic that, of course, we share. However, the necessary improvement in the payment of social benefits does not justify the principle of unconditionality. Our society is based on rights, but it is also based on duties. Without the process of integration into employment, it is therefore not, in our view, possible to grant such social assistance. It is in this spirit that the reform of the universal income of activity, which will be presented within the framework of the poverty plan in the coming months and in which Members can – and will – take their full part. The aim will be to thoroughly renovate the system of social benefits paid to modest households in order to protect the French, simplify their procedures and make the system more transparent, while resolutely accompanying the beneficiaries towards activity and employment. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] The majority of the members of the MODEM Group will therefore support the motion to reject it beforehand, since they oppose the logic of non-conditionality. We will therefore await the reform of the universal income of activity, which will allow for the establishment of a more virtuous system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u277	You're definitely just supples!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u278	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u279	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 116 Number of votes cast 113 Absolute majority 57 For adoption 64 Against 49
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u280	As a result, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u281	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u282	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u283	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Guillaume Garot and others to introduce emergency measures to combat medical desertification (No 1542, 1612).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u284	Mr Guillaume Garot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u285	The crisis of yellow vests, such as the complaint books, has brought to light a reality that many of us know: territories that lose their post offices, stations, perceptions and medical offices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u286	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u287	This applies in many departments, in the Aisne, in the Seine-Saint-Denis, in the Gers or in Mayenne...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u288	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u289	... among so many others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u290	In Martinique!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u291	In Ille-et-Vilaine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u292	With regard to medical desertification, the figures are very clear: while there have never been so many doctors registered with the College, the number of doctors in regular employment is decreasing and, above all, the territorial inequalities are striking. As far as liberal general practitioners alone are concerned, the ratio between the least well-equipped department and the best-equipped department is 2.2 – from simple to more than double. This gap is even greater for some specialties. The ratio is 1 to 12 for ophthalmologists, 1 to 23 for dermatologists – excluding the two departments that do not – and 1 to 24 for paediatricians. We know that the problem is ahead of us, because a whole generation of doctors will retire, which will lead to a demographic gap, scheduled for 2025. The Government has announced the plan "My Health 2022", which includes, I mean, some useful answers and which, for some of them, go in the right direction, such as the eventual abolition of the numerus clausus or the creation of medical assistants to free up medical time. The problem, Minister, is that this plan will only have its effects in the medium to long term, without tackling the core of the issue: territorial inequality. In fact, between 2010 and 2017, territorial inequalities worsened. La Nièvre lost 27% of its general practitioners, l'Indre, 24%, while at the same time other departments experienced an increase in the number of doctors, 8% in Savoie, 3% in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, 4% in Charente-Maritime and 3% in the Var – the latter corresponding to an additional 150 doctors – where "there is the sky, the sun and the sea", as the song said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u293	That's not always enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, the urgency is medical, but also political. It is an issue of solidarity and responsibility for all of us, legislators, as well as for the actors involved – elected officials, doctors and all health professionals. We cannot cope with the territorial and social emergency by limiting ourselves to yesterday's revenues. That would mean to the French "you feel abandoned in territories where there are not enough doctors, but we continue as before. That would not be a responsible response. That is why, Madam Minister, we have proposed these emergency measures to ensure the effectiveness of all the incentives that have been implemented – rather poorly – so far. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have been deaf to these proposals during the discussion of the text in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u295	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u296	You have chosen to remove our bill, to empty it from its most constructive provisions. What happened to the idea of working with everyone, of shaking up conservatism, of "trusting", as you said, "audacity", "innovation" and even "experimentalism"? Colleagues, we are not here to echo the interests of some, but to serve the general interest, to defend our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u298	In the end, from the original bill, there is only half an article left: four of the five articles have been removed, and the article that remains, on substitute doctors, would not, as you know, solve the immense difficulties that we are experiencing today. Article 1, which you have deleted, proposes to apply the principle of regulation by conventional means, around what is called "selective agreement". It is no longer a matter of authorizing the installation of a doctor where the needs are already met, to contain the densification in generalists and specialists in certain areas. I have, of course, tabled a reinstatement amendment. I recall that this regulation, which you reject, exists for all other health professions – for pharmacists, kines, nurses, midwives. In the name of what logic, in the name of what should it be rejected with regard to doctors? I still don't understand. In our mind, it is a matter of trusting the partners to negotiate the modalities of this regulation. We gave them a year, in the provision that you deleted, for negotiation to begin. If this did not succeed, it would be the public authority that would establish this regulation to deal with the emergency. Since the health gap is also a territorial and social divide, we had foreseen that selective agreements would not be effective against doctors whose tariffs fall within Sector 1 in over-density areas. Through Articles 2 to 4, the original text intended to activate additional levers to the regulation in order to give each other every chance of establishing an effective mechanism. As I told you, we are defending a global balance: regulation and incentive "at the same time". I would like to convince you that our logic is common sense. It consists of telling the doctors, who form the backbone of our health care system: "Do not settle where the offer of care is already provided, but where your patients are waiting for you. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u299	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u300	"And we, the public power, because this is our role, we are doing everything we can to ensure that in the territories where we lack doctors, we have the best conditions for exercising. » Article 2, which you also deleted, was intended to focus on the most innovative health projects, which we proposed to label "Territories innovation santé". These are, for example, projects that make available the technical platform of the hospital, which develop fiber for teleexpertise or telemedicine...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u301	We're already doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u302	...or who organize the permanence of care. I therefore propose a return to the original wording. Article 3, which you also deleted, was an adaptation of what we discussed and validated together – I say together – in the report that our friend Philippe Vigier prepared on behalf of the committee of inquiry on "equal access to the care of the French throughout the territory and on the effectiveness of public policies implemented to combat medical desertification in rural and urban areas". The idea is to reduce to one year the probationary period of doctors who have graduated abroad who have passed the competition to allow them to settle in a sub-dense zone, obviously retaining the same requirements in terms of technical and linguistic skills. Article 4 has, for its part, been reduced to the skin of grief. You have only retained the status of the backup doctor, which, as I said, will not be enough to address the scale of the problem. Finally, by Article 5, we intended to entrust pharmacists, in the context of an experiment, in the subdenses territories, with the ability to prescribe medicines for certain benign, very strictly defined diseases – such as cystitis, rhinitis or conjunctivitis, for example. This option would be guided by an extremely rigorous protocol. I have tabled an amendment to re-establish this article, which you also deleted. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Favennec Becot also applauds]] I would like to make a solemn appeal. We are elected representatives of the territories, of national representation. Together we assume a responsibility: to deal with the suffering of the territories that feel abandoned, to meet the expectations and concerns of millions of French. What is at stake, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the Republican Pact, this magnificent idea emanating from the National Council of Resistance: ensuring equal access to health for all. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, it is still time to vote for this text in its original version, to improve it with amendments from all quarters of the House. We have this shared responsibility, so let's live up to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u303	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u304	I thank you again for drawing the attention of the legislator to this fundamental issue of equality in access to care, which echoes the growing concerns of our citizens. These concerns, which resonate strongly in the social context that we are going through, are at the heart of my ambitions for 18 months to raise the head of our health care system. The distress and anger of our fellow citizens arise from the often justified feeling that the Republican pact is no longer keeping its promises. At the heart of this republican pact is equality, to which we are passionately attached. I fight every day for this equality not to be an abstract ideal that is sprinkled on speeches. That is the whole meaning of the health bill, which will occupy our discussions in the near future and which is entirely built in favour of equal access to quality care for our citizens. This bill is a plan of battle against territorial divides in access to care...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u305	Quality and proximity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u306	and for community care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u307	Quality and proximity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u308	Close by: you said it and I say it again. Of course, I agree with the exact fact that we are facing, and for a few years to come, major difficulties in terms of medical demography. We inherit the lack of anticipation, vision and strategy of the public authorities in the previous decades; I am thinking in particular of the aberration of the numerus clausus. Your bill, Mr. Rapporteur, explores some avenues to address the shared challenge of access to care. The development of the use of the assistant physician is one of the key measures in the access plan announced by the Prime Minister in October 2017. In many regions, actors in the field have already adapted this tool in areas affected by medical desertification, beyond only seasonal inflow situations. The Health Bill should facilitate the use of this mechanism. This section was specifically amended during committee work, and it is redrafting the bill that we have considered. I believe, like you, that pharmacists can be an important point of support for access to care in fragile areas, thanks in particular to the high density of the official network: 97% of the metropolitan population lives less than 10 minutes from a pharmacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u309	Thanks for the regulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u310	The gradual extension of their role must, however, be done in close coordination with the medical profession in order to provide patients with all the guarantees necessary for the safety of care. This is what we have begun to do with the possibility of being vaccinated against influenza in the medicine. As such, Article 5, which provides for testing the prescription of certain medicinal products by the pharmacist himself, is, in my view, an insufficiently regulated development. On the other hand, we plan, as authorized by the Social Security Financing Act for 2019, to experiment quickly with the "corresponding pharmacist" device, which will allow the pharmacist to adjust dosages and renew the treatments of certain patients, on the advice of the attending physician. This will help to avoid disruptions of care in the most fragile areas. I share the desire expressed in your Article 2 to make subdenses of innovation territories. I also note that this is very often the case in practice: it is in and from these fragile territories that new ways of exercising and caring emerge, as well as new cooperation between professionals and with the hospital. Where caregivers are lacking, traditional competition fades, and actors learn to work together. It is probably no coincidence that the largest number of regional health professional communities are located in the Centre-Val de Loire, which is experiencing the most serious difficulties in accessing care. The targeting of the regional intervention fund – FIR – seems to me, on the other hand, to be a rigid and partially inadequate lever. The regional health agencies – ARS – are already de facto paying special attention to these territories, but they take as much into account in their decisions, which is normal, the quality of the projects and the dynamics of the actors as the acute difficulties encountered by the territories. Moreover, not all uses of the IRF are intended to be targeted at underdensed areas – I am thinking in particular of funding for projects to prevent the loss of autonomy of the elderly or the development of health democracy. If I agree with some of the guidelines of your bill, I am, on the other hand, more sceptical about the most radical solution that you put forward in section 1. Selective bargaining can be effective for all professions with high geographical dynamism, such as some paramedical professions, but it would be much less effective for understaffed professions, such as physicians. It is not enough to have a medical density higher than the national average to be a territory well endowed with doctors: it will probably be very difficult to define such over-density zones without creating significant perverse effects, and I do not know any over-density zones in terms of general practitioners today in France. In addition, there is no guarantee that young doctors will move to the most difficult territories: they will probably prefer, as we see for nurses, the best served and most attractive territories that will be just below the threshold you have defined. Looking at what our neighbours, particularly Europeans such as Germany, have done, we realize that coercive settlement measures, which seem to be an attractive idea on paper, have not improved access to care for the population and have very often had the opposite effect. Finally, and I would particularly like to stress this point, such a coercive measure would certainly lead to the very strong opposition of professionals, particularly among young doctors in training, at a time when we need their commitment to improve access to care for the French. You present this measure as "a useful complement to existing incentive schemes": in reality, it would very quickly deprive almost all incentive schemes, which are based on the mobilization of actors and doctors, and on their involvement in territorial projects, coordinated with other professionals. I am thinking, in particular, of the deployment of the territorial occupational health communities, which are the priority of the "My Health 2022" strategy and which are the cornerstone of the decompartment between the city and the hospital, and between professionals, which we call for with all our wishes. You say that the incentives did not work, but they were only financial: the project that we are going to present is a paradigm shift, because it aims to make medical time, to break down tasks, to coordinate care and to involve new professionals, such as nurses, in the practice and follow-up of chronic diseases. We must therefore give up the temptation to adopt coercive measures, the effects of which would be highly destabilizing for our health system. We have chosen to trust the actors and gradually co-build with them, within the framework of a territorial responsibility of health professionals, a new structure of the provision of care in our country. It is essential not to break with this emerging dynamic, which everyone believes in and which is based on radical changes in the organization of care. There is no miracle and simple solution to the problem of medical deserts: this is why the plan for access to care relies on a multitude of complementary tools, each time adaptable to local situations and specificities. "My Health 2022," before the coming bill, came to enrich this palette with new features. I am thinking of the deployment of medical assistants, which will allow for the rapid release of medical time where it is most needed, and for which the conventional negotiations have begun in recent days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u311	When will they arrive?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u312	I am also thinking of the recruitment, in 2019, of an additional 400 general practitioners in priority territories. The precise outlines of this scheme will be presented at the end of the month, and the first recruitments are expected to take place in the spring. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It therefore seems to me both premature and excessively severe, if not harmful, to conclude that policies on access to care have failed, because we have changed our view of the structuring of community-based care. At the same time, I understand the impatience of our fellow citizens, but we have developed a comprehensive and structuring project for our health system, which will be presented to parliamentarians in the spring. It is approved by all the actors, and I will invite you in a few weeks to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u313	Mr Joël Aviragnet spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u314	With this proposal for a law on emergency measures to combat medical desertification, the Socialist and related groups wanted to address the issue of the difficulties of access to care in our country, and more particularly in our territories. We are concerned to provide all French people with quality care, accessible in all territories and covered by social security as often as possible. Our conviction is that health must be within the reach of all our citizens, regardless of their income and origins. Our ambition is a non-discriminatory, fair and effective public health policy. This may seem obvious, but it should be said: health is at the heart of the concerns of the French, as we have seen recently. Happiness begins with good health, you can have all the wonders of the world at your feet, it won't be worth it if your health is lacking. On the other hand, there is a fairly direct link between health and development: a healthy population has confidence in the future and is productive, both economically and socially. That is why the Socialists have always been committed to the universal principle of the right to health, enshrined in the preamble to the 1946 Constitution and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948. Article 25 of the Declaration, on the right to health and social protection, states: "Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for his or her health, well-being and those of his or her family, including food, clothing, housing, medical care and the necessary social services (...)". It was in this spirit that we voted for the creation of universal health insurance, under the government of Lionel Jospin, which ensures access to care and reimbursement of care and medicines to all French people. It was also this logic that led Marisol Touraine to generalize the paid third party during the previous quinquennium: exempting the French from advancing the cost of care had to allow economic barriers to access to care to be removed. Today, with the same ambition, we propose that you adopt this bill to combat medical desertification through various measures. This text starts from a simple observation: equality in the face of health is deteriorating and an increasing proportion of the population is forced to give up care or postpone it. In my constituency in Saint-Gaudens, the number of doctors increased from thirty-two in 2016 to fourteen at the end of 2018. More and more citizens find themselves without a referral doctor, and, I can tell you, anger is rumbling. The mechanisms that you have referred to, minister, do not at the moment show efficiency – perhaps because the funding is not following. It is therefore for the Socialists to warn about this situation and to promote the effectiveness of the right to health, as well as the conditions for equality of all in access to quality care. Regularly, we are interested in the economic problems of access to care, and we have voted with you the new complementary CMU, CMU-c, as well as the "zero charge remaining" for glasses and dental and auditory prostheses. But we have forgotten, Madam Minister, to address the geographic and territorial issues of access to care. Indeed, the medical desertification of certain rural areas or suburbs adds territorial inequality in access to care. Medical deserts in rural and suburban areas, linked to the freedom of installation of liberal doctors, pose serious health problems, which end up having a very significant human and financial cost to our society. For in these territories, diseases are not treated when it is appropriate to do so, but when it is unbearable to live with them, and it is the hospital that intervenes as a last resort, when this is still possible. In addition, the closures of local institutions and maternity wards, which keep part of the population away from the appropriate care. We therefore propose with this text, not to solve all problems of access to care, but to help to strengthen equal access to care for all French people and to facilitate the use of quality care. To this end, we propose five measures: the territorialized agreement of doctors; the establishment of innovative health-related territories in areas with low medical density; the reduction to one year of the probationary period of doctors holding foreign diplomas; the relaxation of the arrangements for assistance to doctors practising in the sub-dense zone; the establishment of an experimental framework for the dispensation of certain medicinal products. It goes without saying that our bill is a coherent whole, in which measures are interdependent. It is therefore not a menu in which the LaREM group could choose on the map what it wants to see adopted and what it will reject with some demagogy. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] There is no question here of satisfying the particular interests of a particular doctor's union, or of making a voice for it or of flattering a particular corporation, but of defending the state of health of our fellow citizens, therefore the best interests of the nation. Isn't that a nice idea?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u315	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u316	A real problem, bad solutions – sometimes even counterproductive: the phenomenon of medical desertification is a reality that must be our priority. Although the data available indicate that health care professionals are numerous and that their workforce has increased at a higher rate than that of the population over the past 40 years, these figures mask significant – and persistent – geographical disparities. If we take into account all doctors, we observe in 2016 a level of inequality similar to that of 1983! Density differences between departments are one to two for general medicine and one to seven for nurses. They grow even further at finer levels. More specifically, for access to liberal gynaecologists and ophthalmologists, the supply available in large urban centres is seven to nine times higher than that available in isolated municipalities. These figures show striking territorial inequalities in health. Another worrying trend is the aging of the profession. In 2016, more than a quarter of doctors are over sixty years of age and physicians under forty years of age account for only one fifth of the workforce. As a result of the decline in the number of current Liberal general practitioners and retirements, the number of areas with low accessibility will increase in the coming years. This situation will gradually extend to new territories. Thus, we can only agree: the fight against the problems posed by medical desertification through many mechanisms is a priority. However, some of the measures proposed by our colleague Guillaume Garot do not seem to us to be in the right direction. We have examined Rule 1 in committee and voted to delete it. In fact, territorial conventioning is an administrative response to a problem of attractiveness. Moreover, in my view it is not that of the territories that is the problem, but that of liberal medicine. At the end of their studies, what choice is available to young doctors leaving the faculty? They can work in the hospital, which offers thousands of vacancies – they have the embarrassment of choice! They can be employees – they are given attractive offers. Finally, they can opt for liberal medicine. But the liberal exercise of medicine is no longer attractive. Even though he is flexible, a growing number of constraints weigh on him. Recall that general practitioners – and many specialists – are liberal doctors. In my view, the problem lies in the attractiveness of liberal medicine. The real solution is to increase it by freeing it from the constraints on liberal doctors and by facilitating their work. This is one of the objectives of the health bill that the Minister of Health will shortly be presenting. The solution is also to listen to professionals. Mr rapporteur, I was struck at our hearings by what seemed to me to be a lack of communication between them and you. They have put forward proposals that you have not listened to. They were intended to encourage students from under-denses to return to their territory. Currently, the majority of medical students come from metropolises and not from rural areas. They told you, but you didn't listen to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u317	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u318	The aim is to introduce the principle of cumulation of employment and retirement, as well as the mix of medical exercises. That is why the MODEM Group, which voted against Article 1, is not in favour of Articles 2 and 3. Article 4 is based on the proposals of the information report by our colleague Philippe Vigier on equal access to care, whose work the MODEM Group welcomes, and aims to facilitate the assistance of doctors in under-density areas. It introduces the backup physician into the under-supported areas and extends the use of the assistant physician to ensure the possibility of temporary assistance in the event of a failure to provide care. This is a proposal of common sense that we will support. Finally, the last article of the bill is also in line with the proposals of the commission of inquiry on equal access to the care of the French throughout the territory and on the effectiveness of public policies implemented to combat medical desertification in rural and urban areas. It aims to establish an experimental framework for cooperation between pharmacists and doctors, particularly in areas where health needs are difficult to meet. The purpose of the device is to allow pharmacists to prescribe medicines for benign pathologies. The MODEM Group will vote in favour of the article, which expands the range of solutions to facilitate access to care and reduce congestion in the practice of general practitioners. However, there will be a need for consultation and a strict framework for this mechanism, in particular with regard to the development of the list of medicinal products which may be prescribed. Thus, if there are generous proposals in the text, there are errors that could be dangerous to the balance of our health care system. Nevertheless, it has the merit of opening a space for debate on a fundamental issue. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This, in my view, is the preamble to the debate that will begin in a month's time on the Government's bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u319	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u320	The President of the Republic, in his recent letter to the French, wrote: "At home, education, health, security and justice are accessible to all regardless of the situation and the fortune". Let's move on to practical work! To these words, I reply that no one is blinder than the one who does not want to see. Twenty-five years ago, France had the best health care system in the world. Now we are in the twenty-fourth place in the world. That's a great step backwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u321	Bad vocabulary choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u322	It must be noted that a quarter of our population does not care because it costs too much. Inequalities here – unfortunately – take on a particularly tragic face. Today in France there are six years of life expectancy gap between a worker and a manager. Inequalities are not just social. They are also territorial. Access to health does not escape this dual reality. Disparities are increasing in proportions when they are part of a general context weakened by the dismemberment of public services. When one refers to medical desertification, one often has in mind the image of rurality. We imagine this diagonal vacuum, which now embraces the forms of medical demography and also covers – it is no coincidence – those of the movement of "yellow vests". However, I would like to point out that medical deserts are also well present in some popular suburbs. As an elected member of Seine-Saint-Denis, I measure daily the shortcomings of an absent or lacunary medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u323	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u324	In my department, in 2017, 100,000 inhabitants shared fifty-nine general practitioners' offices. Imagine the result in terms of waiting times and risks to the population, ladies and gentlemen! I'm getting even more iced by a number. In my department, you're twice as likely to die from a heart attack as in Paris. Twice as much! I have no doubt that many of you are facing this situation in your ridings. In all, more than 10 million French people must suffer the consequences of limited access to care. We will agree, I hope, on the tragic nature of the fact, known and recognised. For our part, we refuse to see medical deserts settle in the national landscape for a long time. They are in no way fatal, but the product of political choices that we are contesting and which you are aggravating, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. By allowing the gap in wealth between cities and peripheries to explode and by striking the seal of profitability each and every piece of public action, successive governments have added to social inequalities a territorial divide in access to care. These inequalities mirror the decisions taken in this House. It was the budgetary savings voted here that led governments to close 63% of maternity mothers between 1975 and 2014. These closures are criminal. As a reminder, the perinatal mortality rate increases from 0.64% to 1.07% if the travel time from home to maternity exceeds 45 minutes. I let you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of a woman about to give birth, who sometimes has to drive up to an hour to get to maternity. In the fight against the medical deserts that we must carry out, the initial version of the draft law tabled by the Socialist Group occupies a position which we feel is somewhat confused. Article 1, which deals with the selective agreement of doctors, has our full support. This is a fair measure, which we have repeatedly defended in this House and elsewhere. It consists in opposing the freedom of admission of doctors to respect the fundamental right to health. In this case, we must adopt the defence of the general interest as a cardinal value. What interest can be more general than access to care for all? This provision seems to us to be able to slow down the installation of doctors in certain areas where they are very numerous. Social security, using its power to contract doctors, could thus act against medical deserts. Such a provision is also a response to the failure of many existing incentive schemes. Their list is long – you know it, Madam Minister –: a contract to assist with the installation of doctors, a contract for the stabilization and coordination of doctors, a contract for the transition of doctors, a contract for the territorial solidarity of doctors, a contract for the commitment of public service, not to mention tax exemptions and financial aid. The abundance of devices points to the lack of evidence. Moreover, the studies carried out on them highlight their prohibitive cost. The selective agreement of doctors therefore seems to us to be a balanced response to medical desertification. This is a way of organizing the territory. Let's have a brief comparison with the teachers: we don't imagine that a teacher who wants to teach will do it wherever he wishes, and that it doesn't matter if students don't have a teacher in front of them! It's about the same barrel. We should reason in this way and ensure that everyone has a proper offer of care throughout the territory. Moreover, this provision is the subject of favourable recommendations from the Court of Auditors and the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC. It is worthy of our Republic and our social model, considered in its most progressive and protective facets. Article 1 is therefore a concrete response to the need for greater territorial equality expressed by our fellow citizens. However, this quest for territorial equality must have its social counterpart. We have therefore wished to point out, through our amendments, that medical desertification is not only spatial. It is felt as soon as one of our fellow citizens is unable – material or financial – to access care. In order to combat this two-speed medicine, we have therefore made a determined effort to defend the return of the paying third party and the end of the excesses of fees. Non-use of rights is a failure, first and foremost for our social state. Moreover, this is evident in other areas, as demonstrated by the example of the RSA, which so many people do not use when they could. The non-appeal now concerns a quarter of the insured persons. Here we touch the most precarious section of the population, the most legitimate to benefit from the help of society. The return of the third-party fee must allow us to hang up on the train of health those people whom the precariousness unfortunately makes invisible. Surpluses of fees, which are rising sharply in some sectors, such as oral health, are also a way of keeping caregivers away from caregivers. We wish to rebalance this text by recalling that the remoteness of the patient's medicine cannot be considered from a geographical point of view alone. We call for vigilance, to which Ambrose Croizat invited us: the one who was at the initiative of our social security reminds us to "never speak of social acquis but of social conquest" – a nuance of great importance. While we believe that section 1 of the proposed legislation is relevant, the following sections demonstrate the need for this vigilance, as it is of a completely different nature. Section 5 is particularly doubtful in this case: it is a question of allowing pharmacists to deliver medicines for which a prescription is mandatory. The measure is presented as an experiment, of course, but it confirms a step backwards: to dispense with the doctor to take medication. In addition, it should be recalled that the pharmacist has an economic interest in selling. To give pharmacists the opportunity to deliver prescription drugs is to revise our standards downwards and weaken the entire medical path. In the same way that the Government intends to respond to desertification by delegating more tasks to nurses and by developing telework, the proposal for a law of the Socialist and related group is here the avatar of a neoliberalism that intends to cure an injury with a contaminated sparadrap. Let us repeat: we do not have a problem with access to medicines, but a problem with access to care. We will certainly not solve the crisis of medical desertification by self-medication, or by the banalisation of painkillers, but by rehabilitating places of care and caregivers – especially in our world where social networks deliver a great deal of information, but not always of a very scientific nature. The prescription is not an anomalous medical act, on the contrary. Signs that a diagnosis has been made, it must remain the prerogative of a practitioner authorized to perform a medical examination. To attack the legitimacy of the doctor by reducing it is to open the door to many abuses which, far from solving the problem of medical desertification, will instead increase it. The message, although often repeated, does not seem to be retained: antibiotics, as they say, it is not automatic. The ambiguities of the latter proposal, in particular, prevent us from endorsing the spirit of this text. If it does not evolve, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u325	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u326	"The rich cannot buy my time, it belongs to the people of this valley. I don't want glory or fortune, I don't ask my sick people for praise or gratitude. This was what Balzac's field doctor said. With their words today, our doctors don't say anything else! But the problem is their numbers in our valleys. Access to care is not sufficiently guaranteed in our country; The right to health is at risk because medical deserts are spreading in rural but also urban and peri-urban areas. The observation is without appeal, and it is shared: no one can deny that it is increasingly difficult to find a doctor; No one can deny the congestion of the waiting rooms. The figures are there: we lost 9,000 generalists in ten years, 750 of whom in 2017 alone. In total, 5.5 million of our fellow citizens live in a medical desert, according to the latest estimates from your ministry itself, Madam Minister. In addition to the shortage of general practitioners, there is the lack and poor distribution of specialist doctors – I am thinking of gynaecologists, psychiatrists, ophthalmologists, dermatologists... This lack of liberal doctors goes hand in hand with a deterioration in the public supply of care: these two phenomena reinforce each other. It is a vicious circle: fewer hospitals are less liberal doctors, because they need technical trays of quality, specific skills that support their practice. And the shortage of liberal doctors leads to a greater use of hospital emergencies, exsangue. All these elements combine and fuel the cessation of care. The causes are many: we pay the price of irresponsible past political decisions, whose lock of the numerus clausus is the symbol; But we must also count on the new aspirations of health professionals, with the trophies of the new generations of doctors. Many, for example, want to practice in a collective setting, in order to give priority to the quality of working life, but also to personal life. The dogma of the reduction of public spending, which has made so many public services disappear and so deeply affected the quality of life in rural areas, in working-class areas, in medium-sized cities and ultimately throughout our territory, is not alien either – it is true in general, and especially in the field of health. The closure of hospitals, maternity wards, services, beds, and more generally community health facilities throughout the country has helped to expand medical deserts. I would like to refer here to the maternity of Creil, in Oise, a level 3 maternity which the health authorities have decided to close while 1600 births take place there each year. It's a whole pool of life that would be affected. Here I welcome the mobilization of citizens, citizens, elected representatives, trade union organisations and agents to save this motherhood. How can this administrative decision to close be justified? So far, the answers to these problems are far from up to date. Hospitals continue to suffer fiscal austerity: 1.6 billion savings in 2018, 1 billion in 2019. For the past ten years, plans for austerity, compression, follow each other and are similar for the public hospital service. Staff are at a standstill, and institutions in acute crisis: their financial situation no longer allows them to recruit for understaffing, or to invest enough to modernize themselves, or even to pay for supplies. Let us not think that the problem of the hospital would be just an organizational problem: it is indeed an underfunding that the hospital suffers. We are concerned that the reorganization of the hospital map, as provided for in the future health law, will only worsen the defrosting of our territorial grid. Incentives, if necessary, are difficult to achieve. The health homes that the Government intended to develop were not sufficient, and the Court of Auditors wondered about the aids to the installation. Telemedicine should be seen as a tool in the service of physicians, not as a substitute for the lack of human medical presence in our territories. The proposal made by our socialist colleagues to introduce a selective convention for liberal doctors at the facility is relevant: we must empower ourselves by inventing new forms of regulation, while improving our capacity to train health professionals. The principle is simple: the medical overdensity found in certain territories – 752 communes overdenses according to the direction of research, studies, evaluation and statistics, the DREES, i.e. 3.4 million people – must be regulated for the benefit of the areas poor in health professionals, the approximately 9,000 municipalities underdenses, i.e. 5.3 million people. The public authorities finance the training of practitioners and, thanks to social security, the demand for care, thus indirectly the activity of health professionals. In return for this public and solidarity funding, citizens, citizens, their representatives and representatives must be able to intervene to organize the right to health. The freedom of settlement often invoked cannot constitute an absolute in the face of the right to health, a constitutional requirement, and beyond, in the face of the general interest of ensuring access to health care throughout the country. Far from coercion, this is a corrective regulatory approach, as other professions know. His motivations are in line with those who nurture vocations to exercise this indispensable and magnificent profession of doctor. Our situation is due to a set of causes; Only one solution will not be enough to resolve it – we will have the opportunity to come back, minister, in the coming weeks. Selective agreement is one of the proposals for short-term action to limit inequalities in access to care, which, as several reports note, is expected to worsen over the next ten years. But she's not the only one. For our part, we always felt that it was urgent to get out of the numerus clausus. But we would like to draw your attention to the symbolic nature of such a measure if it were not accompanied by the development of our training capacities and ambitious objectives. There is also a need to encourage pooled exercise, and to support the willingness of young doctors to turn to wage-earning, teamwork and complementarity. Health centres, which must be valued, can play a decisive role as a local access point, in order to guarantee an offer of first resort care, in connection with the hospital. Finally, Article 51 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2018 allows for the specific structural expenditure of this type of practice of medicine, which is known to be a particularly effective response to the difficulties of access to care and prevention for patients in vulnerable situations. The transformations of our health system cannot be dictated solely by the crisis, even if it sometimes requires a useful review of certain things. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] I couldn't resist quoting Balzac's Country Physician. Unfortunately, it is not easy to enlighten a Government – and even less so when it believes that it is spreading lights. In committee, the text has been emptied of its substance, so as to allow only a provision to be retained to facilitate the use of medical assistance in territories where the medical supply is inadequate. As a result, the bill is distorted. But it must be understood as a call to action: there is an urgent need to provide new answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u327	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-31-O1133.u328	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the proposed law on emergency measures to combat medical desertification; Discussion of the bill for a truly inclusive school; Discussion of the proposal for a law establishing a fund to compensate victims of plant protection products; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the establishment of a compensation fund for victims of chlordecone and paraquat in Guadeloupe and Martinique. The meeting is adjourned.
