ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u1	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u2	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u3	The outcome of the European elections highlighted the increase in a triple crisis. A democratic crisis: the high expectations raised by the yellow vest demonstrations and the great national debate have not been met; In particular, there was a particularly important vote in favour of extreme right-wing lists. A crisis of territories and isolations: the protest vote that has concentrated in phenomenal ways attests to this. An environmental crisis: despite the "greening" of most lists, the score of ecologists in France and Europe underlines the need to accelerate the ecological transition. Young people are our future, and it is precisely on this theme that they will question and judge us – and they will be right. We are currently looking at the mobility orientation bill, which you believe is aimed at reducing social and territorial divides, while responding to the climate emergency. It must be noted, however, that the financial trajectory is not sufficient. Nor does the Energy and Climate Bill respond to the urgency of the situation. It does not contain strong concrete measures, while the needs are immense. For example, renewable energy and housing should be much more ambitious, particularly in the fight against energy insecurity. We know that there are solutions to protect our planet and its inhabitants: reintegrating environmental costs into the prices of goods and services, reinjecting massively what is being collected – including innovative financing for the most isolated people in particular –, decentralizing all our actions, finally ending the cult of unlimited consumption, in short, inventing a new world, more humane and more respectful of our environment. [[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] Prime Minister, are you finally going to speed up and move from intentions to action, in terms of the environment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u4	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u5	Mr.President Pancher, you are asking me about the environmental emergency and how the Government, after the first decisions it has taken and the first announcements it has made since its appointment in 2017, intends to live up to this urgency. Yesterday, during the question-and-answer session to the Government, President Le Gendre asked me a question that illustrated, like yours, the commitment our fellow citizens have made, in France as well as throughout the European Union, to the issues of transition and environmental emergency. As I said yesterday to President Le Gendre, I would like to point out that we will be at the meeting of this urgency. We are already there, since 2017, with regard to the objectives formulated, as well as some instruments which, if they had sometimes been mentioned already, had never been implemented; I am thinking in particular of the actual decisions we have taken concerning the closure of a number of nuclear reactors, including those in Fessenheim, or the prohibition of oil exploration on national territory. This decision, which we have taken and which has been validated by the National Assembly and the Senate, naturally responds to the ecological urgency and awareness that you have mentioned. I also said yesterday that we were engaged in the ecological transition – and when I say "we," I'm talking about the country as a whole, not just the Government. Moreover, actors who are not national actors and who do not participate in the national political debate recognise this. I referred yesterday to the ranking established by European non-governmental organisations, which said in Brussels that France was the third country in the European Union in terms of efficiency and ambition with regard to the ecological transition. I also quoted the ranking made by Yale University, which places France in second place, out of a total of 185 countries I believe – I am talking about memory – in terms of the ambition and effectiveness of public policies linked to the ecological transition. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are therefore very much committed and we are achieving results. It is important to stress this, because for all those who are convinced of the urgency, we never do enough. Many of our fellow citizens know that this is important, but they say that it is so delicate that we will never be able to live up to it. However, in 2018 there was a 4.5% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which had never happened in a period of growth – never. This means that we are getting results, although, of course, we need to go even faster. However, it seems to me important to look at reality in the face and to realize that, in a number of areas, the public policies that we have implemented collectively over the past few years, and that we are accelerating, are beginning to produce their results. That's good news. [[Smile]] We want to go further, with different governance instruments. This is the meaning of the creation of the Council of Ecological Defence or of the civic convention for the climate, which will be set up very soon and on which the Minister of State, François de Rugy, will have the opportunity to return. Several pieces of legislation will be consistent, such as the Energy and Climate Bill or the Mobility Orientation Bill, which provides for massive investments. You are right to say, Mr.President Pancher, that some questions remain open, but it is happy, since the text will come under discussion in the National Assembly and in the Senate: you cannot accuse us of wanting to lock everything up before! There will therefore, fortunately, be a debate on the subject in the National Assembly, as will one on the draft law on energy and climate. This will be an opportunity to address all these issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let me repeat once again, let us look at the ambition we are displaying, the instruments we are using, the results that are beginning to be achieved, and discuss in this light the urgency of the environment and the full involvement of our citizens in this field, supported by the Government and the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u6	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u7	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, or to the Minister responsible for Transport. The Ecological Defence Council met for the first time last week. The conclusions of this first meeting seem to have been welcomed at least, at which no strong decision seems to have been announced to our fellow citizens. At a time when, as you have reminded us, Prime Minister, we are about to discuss, in the Chamber, the mobility policy bill and then the energy and climate bill, the Government has refused, in committee, any opening to "booster" immediately access to the least polluting modes of transport. Thus, the sustainable mobility package, by which the employer must take over the use of soft travel modes by the employee, remains optional, therefore subject to the goodwill of the entrepreneurs. In the same way, you have rejected, always in committee, any reduction in VAT on public transport services which would reduce ticket prices. However, this reduction in VAT could be offset by new revenue which the State can collect, and which you yourself say you want to go for, by advocating for a tax on kerosene at European level. What political horizon do you set for this? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] In these circumstances, the Communist MEPs, among many other voices, ask you to reconsider, as soon as next week, the amendments aimed at making the mobility package compulsory and at reducing VAT on public transport, even gradually.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u8	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u9	Transport, as we know, is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases; They also contribute significantly to air pollution. The Government is fully aware of this, and is committed to providing responses. The mobility policy bill, which we will be debating next week in this House, places mobility at the heart of government priorities. I would like to point out that infrastructure planning provides for a massive reorientation of investment in clean transport. Three quarters of the financing will go to the railway, and I am not even talking about the recovery of SNCF's EUR 35 billion debt by the end of the quinquennium. The aim of this bill is also to provide alternative solutions to individual cars, in all territories and for all our citizens, by facilitating the development of simpler and more flexible services: transport on demand, carpooling, shared vehicles or active mobilitys such as, inter alia, bicycles. It will also allow employers to accompany, through the sustainable mobility package, those of their employees who use carpooling or cycling, up to 400 euros per year, without social or tax charges. The way in which this package will be implemented will be subject to amendments, which we will have an opportunity to discuss. On this subject, however, I believe that social dialogue is essential. We also support French people who want to opt for cleaner and less polluting vehicles: 300,000 conversion bonus files were filed in 2018. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Berta also applauds]] In a country where, for too long, too many of our citizens have been abandoned to the "every car" and where travel is a hindrance for many of them, the mobility guidance bill will provide strong responses for cleaner and more accessible mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u10	Mrs Sabine Thillaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u11	Madam Secretary of State for European Affairs, last Sunday's European elections had the highest turnout in 20 years, with a debate focusing more than usual on European issues. Voters' messages must be heard, including the very strong expectations that have been expressed to advance together in the area of ecology and the fight against climate change. These election results lead to the arrival of a new political force, and a political recomposition of the European Parliament. They put an end to the absolute majority held so far by the Conservatives and the social democrats together. The situation is unprecedented: if the majority is pro-European, it will have to be translated into thematic coalitions based on programmes. The Europeans expect us collectively to emerge from a crisis logic to take a constructive and positive approach. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Vincent Bru also applauds]] Madam Secretary of State, following yesterday's informal European summit, can you tell us how the French Government intends to defend its proposals to recast the European project in the Council? Donald Tusk was commissioned yesterday to launch a consultation between the Council and the European Parliament on the renewal of key positions within the European institutions. The stakes are competence and legitimacy, with a view to presenting a common roadmap. In view of the outcome of the elections, and while Brexit has not yet taken place, what role will the European Council play in these negotiations by 20 and 21 June?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u12	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u13	You are right to point out that Sunday's elections have shaped a new European political landscape. This is a real opportunity to move forward with the progressive project that we are defending in the service of European citizens. The new central force created by the election of the members of the Renaissance list and its allies in Parliament, as well as the push of the Greens, will enable us to work together to move this project forward. In order to achieve this, we have a responsibility to bring the pro-Europeans together even more widely, by constituting a double majority, in the Council on one side and, of course, in Parliament, on an ambitious project and progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u14	You do not weigh at European level!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u15	In our view, this project contains four priorities; In any case, it is those who, in our view, must guide our action, as the President of the Republic reminded us yesterday. The first, of course, is the climate emergency; the second is the protection stakes, i.e. the defence but also the borders; the third is to advance our economic and social model; Finally, the fourth is the reform of the euro area. On these four priorities, France plays a pivotal role, under the leadership of the President of the Republic. Indeed, we see that it is essential to build an understanding between Europeans in order to move forward. That is why the President of the Republic has in recent days increased bilateral and collective contacts with all our European partners, regardless of their political colour. An agreement with Germany, I would like to stress here, is absolutely essential. As such, the allocation of key positions within the European institutions can only be made on the basis of the joint project, on the basis of the concrete projects that we can defend for Europeans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u16	You're isolated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] There is no automatic application: there are only women and men who defend projects discussed and adopted by the deliberations of the Member States; It is the key to a more effective and democratic Europe. We owe that to those who went to the polls last Sunday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u18	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u19	Minister of Labour, the law on freedom to choose one's professional future has profoundly reformed the financing of vocational training. And since 15 March last, all the support for training requested by business leaders has been suspended. The reason? You have made the choice to transfer to the USSRAF – Unions for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances – the collection of contributions to continuing training. Now more than 170,000 contributing craft companies listed in the files of the public treasury have inexplicably disappeared from those of the USSRAF during this transfer! In addition, many entrepreneurs have failed to pay their contributions, as the collection has been made in total confusion. From 72 million euros last year, it was completely dried up to less than 40 million euros. Because of this situation, companies can no longer send their employees to training. As a result of this situation, training bodies are in the process of sinking. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Many of us here have been seized by the chambers of trades and crafts, by the professional unions and by the training bodies. The situation was certainly not perfect before, but vocational training is now sinking. The skill operators on which you have put everything are not able to organize themselves. And you will see that tomorrow, as we predicted at the time of the examination of the text in the Chamber, the smallest centres for training apprentices – CFA – will close their doors. In the Senate last March, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy announced an imminent release; We are still far from it: the training insurance fund for artisanal entrepreneurs has, of course, just released funds, but by applying such restrictive criteria! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Minister, how do you intend to meet the expectations of employees and artisans, and to relaunch vocational training in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u20	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u21	Thank you for your question, Mr.Member: it will give me the opportunity to get things right, because there are a lot of mistakes in what you said. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] First of all, with regard to entrepreneurs, it was not at all the law for freedom to choose one's professional future that changed the deal, but the law of August 8, 2016 – and at the time, to my knowledge, I was not in the government. You weren't there either, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u22	Unlike some members of the current government and the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u23	I am simply saying that these two laws should not be confused: I am simply factual. The training insurance fund for artisanal entrepreneurs, FAFCEA, had a problem with the implementation of the law, which created a truly dramatic situation that lasted several weeks: artisanal entrepreneurs no longer had the means to go to training. As the stakeholders did not find a solution, my ministry, in connection with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the other ministries concerned, acted: we assigned the Inspectorate General of Social Affairs...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u24	It skates...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u25	...and asked other professional bodies to show solidarity. The problem – you announced it – is solved. Secondly, concerning the financing of vocational training, your information is incorrect since the former OPCA – recognised joint collecting bodies –, which became OPCO – competence operators – take over the powers of the OPCA for the whole of 2019, the transitional year. Similarly, as far as learning is concerned, 100% of the learning tax in 2019 remains in the hands of the regions, and only a few of them, fortunately very minority, are playing with fire by withdrawing subsidies from the CFA while they are responsible under the decentralization law and have the necessary funds for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u26	What about the 1st of January?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u27	It is therefore a political choice. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] I am at your disposal to study the situation in detail. You'll see: things are moving forward. The number of apprentices has increased by 7.7% in 2018, by 10% since the beginning of the year; It will continue, and we will succeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u28	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u29	Prime Minister, yesterday General Electric announced the dismissal of more than 1,000 employees. Thousands of indirect jobs will also be affected. This decision, made public two days after the European elections, reveals the duplicity of the US multinational and the complicity of your government in this operation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] Emmanuel Macron bears full responsibility for this disaster: it was he who organized the sale of Alstom to General Electric, justified by lies and which took place in such problematic conditions that they motivated a report to the court last January, for practices that could be similar to a "corruption pact". It is also his advisor at this sale, senior public servant Hugh Bailey, who was appointed last April to head General Electric France to implement the restructuring plan: a fine example of slippery and conflict of interest – practices that your civil service break law will promote! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Sébastien Jumel also applauds, as well as Mr Jean Lassalle]] The U.S. group, for its part, has not fulfilled any of its commitments, particularly with regard to job creation. These deletions are much more of a financial predation logic than an industrial strategy. A champion of tax evasion, General Electric does not pay taxes in France while gas activity remains the most profitable in the industry. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] In this case, the national interest was traded. The oligarchy poached a floret and used it boldly in the passage. At a time when the ecological transition requires the planning of unprecedented know-how and industrial resources, this squashing is truly criminal. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Joël Aviragnet and Mr Alain David also applaud, as well as Mr Jean Lassalle]] You claim to guarantee the future of the site and a "personal support" of employees. As for GM&amp;S, Ford, Ascoval and soon, perhaps Fiat and Whirlpool, you will mostly accompany them to "cross the street" and go to register for Pôle emploi! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] To ensure the use and technologies necessary for our sovereignty and ecological planning – such as marine wind turbines – the state must regain control. General Electric must be heavily punished in order to deter any foreign company from defying public power. Is your government prepared to take these necessary steps instead of making windmills and stirring wind unnecessarily?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u30	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Member of Parliament, General Electric's employees deserve better than your lies and your approximations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u32	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] The activities of gas turbines that explain the social plan announced by General Electric have been owned by this company since 1999; To my knowledge, in 1999, Emmanuel Macron was neither Minister of Economy nor President of the French Republic! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] You do politics on the backs of General Electric employees: that's your problem! But the honor of the majority will be to provide concrete answers to the difficulties of Belfort and to each of the employees of the company.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u34	Like at Ford's?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u35	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u36	[[Same movements]] Each has its own camp: you choose the one of populism; We, the responsibility! [[Protests on the benches of the LR and FI groups and on several SOC benches]] [[Protests on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the SOC group]] I'll have General Electric's president on the phone tomorrow and I'll ask him to improve his social plan. I have the local elected representatives of Belfort on the phone since last night, to work with them on constructive solutions, and I pay tribute to them: they have a sense of responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u37	Go to the spot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u38	I will be going to Belfort next week to discuss with union officials possible avenues of work in order to reindustrialize the General Electric site. Because yes, there are prospects, in the aeronautics, in the big carenage, in the renovations of the power plants...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u39	Let's talk about the power plants!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u40	...and, of course, in the renewable energy sector,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u41	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u42	...where I am convinced that General Electric's employees will have solutions, especially in hydrogen. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Protests on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] We don't give up. We look at the problems in the face. We look at the economy as it is. We're on the employees' side. We don't do politics. It is the honor of this majority and that is what the French expect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u43	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u44	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, with 75,000 deaths a year, one in eight deaths in France, smoking, whether active or passive, remains the first preventable cause of death, due to cancers, cardiovascular diseases and respiratory insufficiency. It also causes a high rate of morbidity with inflation of chronic diseases and, among smokers, premature births and hypotrophic newborns. It is a social scourge – with how many family dramas at the key! – an economic scourge, with an estimated cost of 120 billion euros per year. You took all the steps you took and, as soon as you were appointed, you made prevention your priority, targeting tobacco. You have therefore taken vigorous action with determination. Today, this proactive policy is bearing fruit and making you right. In two years, as Public Health France has pointed out, the number of smokers has declined by 12%, or 1.6 million fewer smokers. It should also be noted that smoking reveals strong social inequalities: its prevalence remains high among the most disadvantaged, another concern because there is a high death rate due to smoking among young women. Prevention must therefore be stepped up for these audiences. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, smoking affects all the countries of the European Union, where it remains the first cause of premature death. So, with more than encouraging results in France, how do you intend to act, in the face of this scourge, with your European counterparts, and within the European Commission, to promote a Europe of social progress in the field of public health?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u45	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u46	You are right, we are pleased to be able to announce a decrease in the number of daily smokers of 1.6 million over the past two years. It is the result of a proactive policy that began with the introduction of the neutral package, the increase in the price of tobacco, the multiplication of places without tobacco and the reimbursement, like any other medicine, of nicotine substitutes – and thanks to this reimbursement, the sale of these products has been multiplied by three. Unfortunately, you stress, we still have a lot to do. Tobacco addiction remains very strongly marked by social inequalities. We have planned, with Gérald Darmanin, to work with our European counterparts to strengthen the harmonisation of taxes on tobacco products. Secondly, we intend to support new rules on the quantities of tobacco that can be imported from another state by individuals. Finally, as we wanted, the European Union has recently put in place a system of traceability of tobacco products that will enable us to fight fraud, illegal trade – that is what the ruralists were asking for and we were very sensitive to it. We will also continue to define innovative and effective actions to combat smoking at European level. In any case, the European Health Ministers share the will to carry out these public policies. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, and as you know, since you voted, we have multiplied by five the funds allocated to the tobacco fund, now worth EUR 100 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u47	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u48	[[Applause on many benches of the SOC, LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister of the Interior, I associate myself with my question Hervé Saulignac and Michèle Victory, whose department has been particularly concerned with the question that I am going to ask you. Above all, I would like to warmly thank the mayors, municipal councillors, volunteers and administrative staff who mobilized last Sunday to ensure the smooth running of the election. The rules for registration on the lists of electors were substantially reformed in 2016; The Council of State even referred, then, to a "discreet revolution". Thus, INSEE was entrusted with the management of the electoral register. This reform, in addition to the ex officio registration of a large number of citizens, made it possible to register up to six weeks before the election, thus putting an end to the 31 December deadline. Thus, more than 750,000 people were registered between 1 January and 31 March 2019, proof of a useful reform supported by the French. The 2019 deadline had been set because of the titanic work of synchronization that the reform involved. This was the first election last Sunday after the establishment of this unique electoral register. But since then, in the local press, on social networks but also in our permanences, the testimonies of people who had to turn back because they had been removed, registered under an erroneous identity, or not found on the electoral lists. The intervention of trial judges, who have been overburdened in some courts, has only been too partial in responding to these anomalies, sometimes at the cost of several hours of waiting. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC and LaREM groups]] These difficulties cannot be ignored. The democratic demand obliges us to know the means deployed to accompany this reform, the magnitude of the figures and the reasons for these malfunctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u49	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u50	The text voted in 2016 is the result of a trans-party commitment to modernization. There were real advantages to the introduction of the single electoral regime – REU – provided for by this law Pochon-Warsmann, in particular, as you pointed out, that of being able to register on the electoral lists later – on March 31, this year. Similarly, while municipalities had difficulty communicating with each other in the event of death, removal or registration of new voters, we now have a system directly managed by INSEE. Like any change, it has raised perfectly legitimate concerns. Some town halls have had to adapt to new software, issue voters' cards again. It is true that there have been misunderstandings, but they are inherent in the deployment of a device of this importance. I would add that we could check on the service-public.fr website if we were registered on the electoral lists, but not everyone thought about doing so – which is obviously not a reproach. Therefore, on polling day, some voters were unfortunately unable to vote because they had been removed from the lists of electors. However, out of 47.2 million voters, only 2000 – or 0.004% of the electorate – were cancelled due to the impossibility of identifying them. In addition, account must be taken of changes in civil status, with INSEE deciding on the civil state of birth; That is why I sent a circular to all the prefects, to the mayors and the presidents of the polling stations, so that the rules would be applied flexibly. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We will establish from these malfunctions a precise balance sheet, which I will obviously communicate to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u51	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u52	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, in three days, seven Frenchmen tried for terrorism were sentenced to death by Iraqi justice for joining the Islamic State Group. These seven men have made allegiance to terrorism and are suspected of the most abject crimes. These French must be tried and serve their sentence where they have committed their crimes, this is France's position and we support it. But France, a country of human rights, is committed to ensuring that, regardless of the gravity of the crimes committed, the accused are entitled to a fair trial. It is in this sense that human rights NGOs have called on the Government and many of us. These men are accused of the most heinous crimes and, of course, we still think of the victims, both French and foreign, of terrorists, as well as members of our security forces who have lost their lives to fight them. Yet no crime of any kind should cause us to lose sight of our great principles, which guarantee fair justice and trial for all, and our opposition to the death penalty. Minister, Iraq is a sovereign country...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u53	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u54	... whose law entails the death penalty. What actions are you taking to ensure that death sentences are not applied? Can you tell the national representative what actions are being taken before the Iraqi Government to ensure that these terrorists are tried under acceptable conditions...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u55	What I'm interfering with!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u56	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...and that they receive the best legal assistance possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u57	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u58	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u59	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u60	Mr President, we respect Iraq's judicial sovereignty, and I want to tell you that, contrary to what I hear here and there, the trial is fair: hearings are open; trials are conducted by a judge of the seat assisted by two assessors; the summons shall be pronounced by a prosecutor; a registrar records all the proceedings on-line; the lawyer is present, and if there is a translation problem, the embassy itself provides the interpreters. The judge shall set out the charges at the beginning of the hearing; the defendant is offered the floor throughout the proceedings; the lawyer intervenes when he wishes: it is a fair trial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u62	So, of course, it concerns seven terrorists well known to our services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u63	And dangerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u64	Consular assistance is also provided to them, so that, throughout the proceedings, both during the period of detention, during the trial period and after the trial, our consular services are present. They attend operations and observe their progress. I wanted to clarify these elements, which are a reality, even if these seven citizens – and there will probably be others – are well known by our services for terrorist actions against our country. The question of the death penalty remains whole: we are totally opposed to it. It is an intangible principle that applies to Iraq as well as to the United States, and to the countries in which eight other French people are sentenced to death. I am thinking, for example, of Indonesia. We say to these countries that we are opposed to the death penalty, and we share this determination with the highest authorities in the Iraqi state. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would remind you that the French condemned in Iraq still have a right of appeal. They have a month to file this appeal with the Iraqi authorities, and we are helping them do so. We are here quite in our role.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u65	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u66	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] First of all, I am surprised that a representative of the people here is asking for legal assistance for jihadists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u67	It's called the rule of law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u68	The Minister of Solidarity and Health, in recent days, we have been many on these benches to have been questioned by parents and associations who are concerned about a challenge to the "Creton Amendment". This scheme, adopted in 1989, allows for the extension of the placement of young adults with disabilities in children's facilities. In most cases, the young people concerned suffer from severe mental or physical disabilities, requiring medical and social care 24 hours a day. However, families have recently been informed that their 21-year-old child will only be welcomed at 50%, and that he would not be accepted at all after 22 years, even if they do not find a place in an adult institution. It is not a financial aid or a disability benefit of a few hours a day that will allow them to prepare for a decent future. Minister, the parents are counting on you and all of us to help them. Many of our country's young adults with disabilities are waiting for a place in living homes. For the time being, they cannot return to the family home because they need care that only professionals can guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u70	Young polydisabled people are particularly affected. More than 850 children between the ages of 20 and 30 are being kept in institutions for children. This reflects the acute shortage of places for young adults. Moreover, we are well aware that this puts the problem on the younger ones, who have to wait longer for places to be freed. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, you cannot ignore the distress of parents who are exhausted morally and physically. I have two questions for you from these families. Are you committed to maintaining the Creton amendment's derogation so that no young adult is without a full-time reception? Will you increase the number of places in adult schools, and by what date?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u71	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u72	Mr President, thank you for asking me this question, because I can assure you that there is absolutely no question of blowing up the Creton amendment. It is a solution, even if it is not the solution, because, as you have said very well, this device completely obliterates places available for disabled children. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The real solution lies in what we are building with Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education and Youth: the broad public service of inclusive school, which will allow disabled children who can go to school to go with them and in secure conditions. This cooperation, which has existed in the texts since 2009, is finally starting. We have received, together with the Minister of Education, the rectors and all the directors general of the regional health agencies to be able to set up this cooperation. We are building these indispensable bridges, these times shared between the medico-social and the school of tomorrow. Until then, it is essential to find solutions for adults. We have a lever that is not yet fully deployed and whose implementation we will accelerate: the inclusive housing, with which the ad hoc support services join to enable mobility. Many young people under the Creton Amendment could be accompanied in inclusive habitats. This is the whole issue of the €600,000 inclusive housing packages, managed by the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy. The decree comes out; We will be able to speed up the implementation of this solution. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] The solution also involves accompanied employment, because these young people need to be accompanied in all spheres of their lives: school, employment, housing, quality of social life... These are the issues at the heart of our various strategies, be it the national strategy for autism within the disorders of the neuro-development of the child, the polydisability plan or the mental disability plan. We are on all fronts to meet all specific needs. In any case, I want to reassure the parents, under no circumstances is it a matter of blowing up the Creton amendment. I don't know why, there are these concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u73	Because of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] That is absolutely not our wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u75	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u76	My question is to Mrs. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] On the occasion of the election of the European elections held last Sunday, prisoners in 165 of the 188 French prisons were able to vote by mail; A total of 4413 of the 5184 incarcerated people who had the right to vote took part in this election, and I think we can rejoice collectively. The participation rate reached 85 per cent. This is truly a democratic success, made possible by the involvement of the services of the prison administration as well as the associations which, once again, have shown their daily dedication in the accompaniment of the prisoners. I recall that this new method of exercising the right to vote was introduced, following the promise of the President of the Republic, by the reform of the justice that you have presented, Madam Minister. In addition to proxy voting or permission to leave, the new system will allow prisoners, I am convinced, to participate civically more and thus enrich their journey towards social and societal reintegration, which we are all looking for. This recognition is the whole meaning of majority politics. It is by recognizing this fundamental right that we actively participate in the fight against recidivism. This success gives me the certainty that a reversal is impossible. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Lise Magnier also applauds]] Madam Minister, can you give us a detailed account of the conditions and modalities that have enabled detainees to participate in the European election, and tell us whether there will be any reflection on the renewal of this beautiful democratic system in the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u77	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u78	You have stressed the value of this introduced scheme, as you have pointed out, thanks to new provisions in the Justice Reform Act. They follow on from the commitment of the President of the Republic, taken up by the Prime Minister, to give more voting rights to prisoners who may have access to them. This meant that my ministry needed to introduce new modalities in a very time-consuming manner. We were able to do so, as you pointed out, thanks to the involvement of the staff of the prison administration, but also thanks to the services of the Ministry of the Interior, which I would like to thank here because without their close cooperation it would not have been possible. The purpose of the scheme was to enable more prisoners to be mobilized among those eligible to vote: 10,000 people had thus expressed their interest. About half of them were unfortunately not on the lists of electors, and we were unable to accompany them in the registration process because of the time constraints I was referring to. It was therefore almost 5000 people who were able to vote; Since some of them have been expanded in the meantime, 4413 people have voted in prisons, a participation rate of almost 90 per cent, which should be emphasized. Such a rate was also achieved thanks to the involvement of the Great Debate, also organized in more than 200 institutions and mobilization factor on the subject, as well as through associations and elected officials such as you, who went to the detention centre to show the interest and importance of the scheme. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] We now, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, have yet to develop further provisions so that this method of exercising the right to vote can continue to be applied for the next elections, including the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u79	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u80	Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, after the Great debate, you have taken a few decisions in the face of the demands of the Yellow Gilets, which are certainly insufficient but whose political and budgetary impacts are far from neutral. At the political level, while purchasing power measures are intended to boost the economy through consumption, their financing is a long way from the Government's political line. You could have, to finance them, re-establish the ISF for example.... Well, no! So proof is made that you are well on the right, on the right of the world of finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u82	I note that the historic voters of the Republicans thanked you this Sunday. The Government could, as the Socialist and related group asked, have made other choices, such as launching a massive investment plan for the energy transition or combating energy insecurity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u83	Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u84	Well, no! That ecological gauges at the discount... This is logical since Nicolas Hulot had reminded the Government: ecology and liberal policies are incompatible. So how does the Government finance these measures? Essentially by an increase in debt of 76 billion for future generations, but not by savings on public spending since the only measure envisaged is the removal of tax niches, at the risk of weakening entire sections of our economy! [[Applause on the SOC benches, on many GDR benches and on several FI benches]] It is therefore time, minister, for you to clarify your choices regarding tax niches: is it, for example, to remove the tax credit for the employment of an employee at home? Is it a question of increasing VAT for social housing works? Are we going to sacrifice the agricultural world? There is no shortage of examples.... Of course, there is certainly room for housekeeping in the existing 474 niches, and as our rapporteur-general Joël Giraud rightly explains, one can wonder about the yield and efficiency of niches. But does the Minister of Economy and Finance not think that the priority was to stop the gifts to the most affluent, the ISF and the flat tax, whose proof of their economic efficiency is always expected... Will the Government change its political line, as the French ask?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u85	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u86	Mr President, you have asked a lot of questions in two minutes, but I will try to answer them. The President of the Republic made several announcements, on 10 December in favour of purchasing power to respond to a social crisis, and on 25 April in order to give a concrete translation of the follow-up to the Great Debate and the expression of all the French who participated in this democratic exercise. You are asking us how these measures are going to be financed, whether it is the decline in the CSG – as I know you approve – the increase in the activity premium – I think it is a good thing to value the income of those who work – the measures to maintain public services or the tax measures to reduce income tax, which we want them to benefit the middle classes and also enable those who work to live better, up to the level of their efforts. The Government indicated that all these measures would be financed in part by a number of budget savings. To this end, the 2019 Finance Act has provided, as every year, for a precautionary reserve, and the cancellation of certain reserve appropriations will provide a significant source of funding. We will also make the choice of revising tax niches, and many Members of the majority have made proposals on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u87	We too have made proposals, particularly concerning the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u88	Our policy on tax niches is first of all not to affect households, so not the tax system of home employment. Nor will we touch the tax niches that allow the French to live better and to go further in the matter of the thermal and energy renovation of their housing. And we will not touch further on the tax niches that contribute to the economic competitiveness of companies. You have alluded to the CICE – the competitiveness and employment tax credit – and I would point out that this scheme is no longer a tax niche. When you and I voted to create it, it was a tax credit, but it is now a permanent relief of social contributions since January 1st of this year, a simpler mechanism; It was time to deliver on that commitment four years ago. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] As you can see, your concerns are unfounded. The next few weeks will be an opportunity to demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u89	Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u90	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, after you yourself last December, it was the President of the Republic who recently visited Biarritz as part of the preparations for the G7. Indeed, it is in Biarritz, in my constituency, that the summit of Heads of State and Government will be held from 24 to 26 August. I wanted to say our pride in welcoming the leaders of seven great powers and those of the European Union. This summit, if it represents constraints and poses security problems, is an asset for the Basque Country...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u91	No, the Pyrenees - Atlantics!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u92	...and our department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u93	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u94	We'll talk about the misery of the world in Biarritz!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u95	The global media coverage of this summit will be an opportunity to highlight our economic, tourist and cultural dynamism. Many topics will be discussed at the Summit, such as climate and biodiversity, digital and artificial intelligence, and terrorism-related issues. But its main subject will be the fight against inequalities,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u96	The yellow vests will tell you about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u97	... inequalities between women and men – a struggle that should be recognized as a global cause – but also economic and social inequalities. The G7 will also be an opportunity to define measures to support the African continent. Several African Heads of State will come to Biarritz on 25 August. The forgotten of globalization have a sense of injustice and, indeed, inequality is increasing, while the G7 countries account for 50 per cent of the world economy. It is our duty to respond to concerns by providing concrete solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I would therefore like to know, Mr Minister, France's expectations of this summit and, more importantly, the proposals France intends to make to ensure that the G7 countries respond to the major international challenges, in particular the increase in inequality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u98	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u99	You are right to recall the importance of the Biarritz summit, which will conclude the French presidency of the G7. We are very pleased that this major event is taking place in your city. As you recalled, the President of the Republic wanted the fight against inequalities to be at the heart of the French presidency, and that all the actors, including politicians and civil society actors, who, for some of them, would meet in Biarritz at the time of the G7 summit, could participate in this struggle. In this fight against inequality, we are not starting anything since in 2015, sustainable development goals were set by the United Nations – the United Nations – with inequalities at the centre of this issue. Over the past three years, progress has been made, but we must now find a new dynamic. That is why the President of the Republic wanted the issue of inequality to be the decisive element of the French presidency of the G7. To this end, at each of the regular ministerial meetings held for the preparation of the summit, the issue of inequalities is raised, whether it concerns inequalities between women and men, inequalities with regard to climate change, or inequalities with regard to digitalisation. In the social field, work focuses on the main instruments to combat inequalities such as the right to a decent wage, tax cooperation, essential social protections and education, especially for girls, which will be the subject of a preparatory forum at the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in Paris at the beginning of July. The next ministerial meeting, chaired by Mrs Pénicaud, will be held next week and will lead to the creation of a documentary package. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr President, our aim is to achieve in Biarritz an international framework for action that will serve as a guide and enable us to continue the work that the United Nations has begun in the context of the sustainable development goals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u100	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u101	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, sometimes a lack of medication is understandable, though. Lack of medicines so long, so often and in such proportions is, on the other hand, unacceptable. It is urgent that the authorities seize this serious public health problem! Between 2016 and 2017, the number of out-of-stock drugs increased by more than 30%. In 2016, pharmacists made 405 reports, and more than 530 in 2017. Since the beginning of the year, the phenomenon has only increased, as the lack of corticosteroids has been the key point of this shortage. Last week, no more corticosteroids were available in France for several days! In 2018, the information report by Senator Jean-Pierre Decool had already highlighted a problem of waiting time for products of up to three months, both for "common" drugs and for drugs of major therapeutic interest and vaccines. Since then, the phenomenon has worsened and it is high time to act. Several factors of this shortage are pointed out, including the globalisation of production chains, the sale of medicines in countries where their selling prices are much more advantageous than in France – which poses the problem of the selling price of the medicine in our country – the modification of marketing authorisations, the production with tight flows, the absence of anticipation of the increase in volumes and the lack of raw materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u102	That's a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u103	There is an urgent need for an ambitious and constructive policy to combat drug shortages. The problem, which has become chronic, may no longer be resolved. Minister, the causes of this problem are multiple, so must the solutions. What proposals do you intend to make to ensure patient safety? What provisional legal means can you offer pharmacists? What about the obligation of continuous information given by laboratories? And what means do you intend to give the National Drug Safety Agency to take the lead in this policy? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups. – Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq also applauds]] Finally, do you think, Madam Minister, that, beyond this phenomenon, it is the question of the health sovereignty of France that arises?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u104	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u105	Madam Member, you are right: there is a problem of shortage of medicines in our country. More than one Frenchman in four claims to have had difficulty buying a common drug.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u106	Doctors are warning more and more about this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u107	Between 2008 and 2018, nearly 20 times more shortages were reported. As you have pointed out, the causes of these shortages are varied, and they concern both vaccines as well as antibiotics, antiparkinsonians or anticancers. We need an ambitious plan to combat these shortages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u108	We have to act fast and hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u109	Professionals often allow medicines to alleviate this shortage for a limited period of time, but this situation and the legitimate demands of the French and these same professionals have led me to draw up a concrete and operational plan of action, fed by the proposals of the actors, the reports and the suggestions of the associations of patients. This plan is being finalized and is expected to be presented by the end of June. It is divided into three axes. Firstly, a focus on information, both for the public and for professionals, so that everyone is aware of the risks of breaking up, but also of the means to overcome them. Secondly, a focus to combat shortages through action on the entire drug production chain. We now have a solid legal arsenal...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u110	It's not being implemented! You have to be more coercive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u111	...which has considerably strengthened in recent years with the shortage management plan. I have also set targets for the National Medicines Safety Agency as part of its objective and management contract with the State, so that it is the leader in the fight against stock disruptions. Finally, the third axis must strengthen coordination, not only at national level, but also at European level. The problem is global, and we need coordinated responses among all our neighbouring partner countries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will make the fight against drug shortages my priority in the coming months. You can count on my full determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u112	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u113	Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, the Compagnie Montagne d'Or project in French Guiana, in the commune of Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni, is the largest gold project ever envisaged on the national territory. In figures, this is a 2.5-kilometre-long and 400-metre-wide pit dug in 1500 hectares of primary forest with more than 2,000 species, many of which are protected. The purpose of this project is to extract 85 tonnes of primary gold from open pit mines for at least 12 years. It involves the use of 3300 tonnes of cyanide and 100 tonnes of lead nitrate. A delegation from the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, of which I was a member, was able to visit Guyana this year and assess the urgency of the situation both ecologically and socially. The risks associated with such a primary orpainting project are real. They question us about our responsibility for biodiversity and, more broadly, for future generations. We discussed this very recently in the Chamber: we had already mentioned on this occasion the social and environmental acceptability of major mining projects at a time when Guyana is in search of new channels of economic development but also at a time when ecosystems and the services they render us are at risk. France, a party to the major international conventions on biodiversity conservation, has a mining code of two hundred years old that does not incorporate any environmental requirements. The recent report of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, IPBES, puts this deficiency in perspective with the frightening rate of extinction of animal and plant species. Last week, at the end of the first environmental defence council, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister – as well as you – underlined the incompatibility of the project with regard to environmental requirements. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So I would like to know if you can confirm that the Montagne d'Or project will not come into being and that a new legal framework will be created through a reformed mining code for the extractive industry and commensurate with the particularly essential environmental issues of our time?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u114	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u115	And worse president of the National Assembly of the Fifth Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u116	Madam Member, first of all I would like to welcome your commitment to environmental issues in general, as well as to this issue of Gold Mountain in particular. As you recalled, you and five other Members of the Committee on Sustainable Development visited the site. As you know, since we mentioned it at the ecological defence board, this Gold Mountain project will not happen. I'll say it again in front of you: this project won't happen. As you also know, it was supported by a number of local and national elected representatives in Guyana and was fought by other associations, as well as by other elected representatives. It had, moreover, raised a lot of tension locally when organizing a public debate. As you know, it was also a source of promises of job creation and tax benefits, particularly for the community of Guyana. After an in-depth examination which has led me to meet over the last few months all the actors, both supporters and opponents, we considered that this project posed too many risks to the environment and that it was therefore incompatible with our environmental requirements. I would also like to make this very clear: if some and others wanted this project to stop because of the symbol it represents, they had very little concern about the future. For our part, we want these environmental requirements to apply today as well as tomorrow and to apply to this and other projects. That is why, on my proposal, the ecological defence council, which is under the presidency of the President of the Republic, has asked me to reform the mining code.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u117	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u118	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups – Mr Letchimy also applauds]] Indeed, in terms of ecology, on this and on other issues, I prefer to announce the effects of advertisements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u119	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u120	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u121	Prime Minister, I would like to associate my colleague Valérie Lacroute with my question. In my constituency of Montereau, in the south of the Seine-et-Marne, I was surprised to learn from the mouth of the departmental director of public security his intention to carry out a reform that would result in the disappearance of the full-service police stations of Moret-sur-Loing, Montereau and Nemours for the benefit, from 1 January 2020, of an urban police station in Fontainebleau. I went this morning with all the mayors, all the tendencies, as well as with the president of the rural mayors and with my successor at the head of the department, in front of the Montereau police station in order to denounce in front of the press what is felt as a coup de force.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u122	It's one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u123	In a very large rural area, such a change would result in longer periods of intervention, the disappearance of local anti-criminality brigades and, above all, the disappearance of police commanders who play a key role in the prevention of crime. It is in complete contradiction with the objectives of a daily security police. While the President of the Republic has spoken of a new stage of decentralization, while you have made a commitment not to close schools or hospitals without the approval of the mayors, you cannot make security an exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u124	Should we still believe the Government's statements on public services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u125	Security is the first freedom. Equal security throughout France is the first justice system. It is not acceptable for mayors to be confronted with the fait accompli when, in many cases, they make great efforts, as in Montereau, where the municipal police employs 28 officers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Sage also applauds]] My question is therefore simple: Mr Prime Minister, in order to prevent security from becoming an aggravating element of the territorial divide, do you make a solemn commitment, before the national representation, not to close any full-function police station without the consent of the mayors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u126	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u127	As you know, the improvement of the working conditions of police officers is a major concern of this Government: it is reflected in investments in real estate and in the means, as well as in a significant increase in the number of staff. Responding to the demand of the police also means responding to what they tell us every day, to Christophe Castaner and to myself: their concern to be present in numbers on the ground and to exercise the profession for which they were trained, that is to say the fight against delinquency, being present everywhere in the territories. They also aspire to be discharged from support functions and administrative management functions: however, such an evolution requires reflection on the most relevant territorial organization. This is what was actually launched in the Seine-et-Marne department, as it was previously done in the Yvelines, Val-d'Oise and Bouches-du-Rhône: it is a matter of considering the mutualization of operational police services so that they can radiate on much larger territories. These services – I am thinking in particular of the LACs and the judicial investigation services – are strengthened in number, so they can go everywhere, including in places where they do not exist and in places where they no longer go. This is the object of the reflection – of the reform – which was launched in the Seine-et-Marne department: to have staff dedicated to investigation and intervention, present in all the constituencies. At the same time, I say at the same time, the commitment that has been made to maintain community services is being kept, honourable Member, since I can confirm to you that no administrative authority or police station will be closed in the department. This reform will of course be presented to the elected representatives and discussed. It will be presented mainly to the trade unions of the national police: departmental technical committee will be held before the end of the year,. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These trade union organisations will of course be informed of this project, which aims only to improve the effectiveness of our police action, as all police officers ask.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u128	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u129	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u130	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u131	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly (No. 1882, 1955).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u132	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles, ending with Rule 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u133	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u134	Rule 10 is intended to regulate the duration of meetings, since it provides that "The Assembly shall meet in the morning from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., in the afternoon from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. and in the evening from 9.30 p.m. to midnight". If we are to welcome this desire to reform the pace of work of the National Assembly, such a reform must be more profound: that is why I call for a constitutional revision that would allow us to put things down in this area. The reflection must be global: it is a matter of revolutionizing our practices to improve the quality of our work. So we could imagine that in the long run civil society can intervene upstream of the texts drawn up by the executive. By "restructuring" the pace and schedule of work, we would open up a greater opportunity for our fellow citizens to get involved in the drafting of legislation. In this respect, we could draw inspiration from the German Federal Parliament, in which some weeks are dedicated to parliamentary work – Sitzungswochen – while others are dedicated exclusively to the constituency – Wahlkreiswochen. Our practices have lived, and there is an urgent need to reform the functioning of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u135	I call Mr Sorre to support Amendment No. 57. The other amendments are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u136	Presented by my colleague Stéphane Testé, he proposes to change the start time of the afternoon sitting and to anticipate it at 2.30 p.m. against 3 p.m. at present.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u137	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u138	I would like to explain our position on the scheduling of the meeting. Many amendments deal with the allocation of time. Between the examination of the text in committee and the public sitting, we met with all the political groups in the House. It emerged that everyone felt that the current situation was unsatisfactory...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u139	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u140	... and that, even if the motion for a resolution tended to improve it, the ideal was not yet achieved. In addition, with the exception of the MODEM Group – Mrs Jacquier-Laforge has tabled an amendment to that effect – no one is prepared to delete the night sessions, as this would be a big step forward. Like Mr. El Guerrab, everyone believes that time management must be understood year-round, which is a constitutional matter. In this context, all the amendments aimed at adjusting the solution put forward by the motion for a resolution, by advancing or delaying the sitting hours by half an hour here or there, have been rejected. There are two options: either to stick to the current organization or to adopt the provisions of article 10. All groups consulted prefer the second. I will therefore give an unfavorable opinion to the amendments, including this one, designed to depart from the scenario chosen, because, drawn up by the President of the National Assembly, he has reached consensus between the groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u141	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u142	I withdraw the amendment in the light of the explanations given by the rapporteur. Similarly, I will withdraw Amendment No 56, which made the same proposal for the evening sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u143	[[Smile]] I note that the vote has been taken unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u144	I have before me an amendment with an additional article after Article 10. I call Mr M'jid El Guerrab to support Amendment No. 511.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u145	I have rushed to join the House to defend this amendment, which is of particular interest to me. It aims to make it compulsory for Members to be present in the Chamber in order to combat absenteeism, which feeds so much anti-Parliamentarianism in our country. Indeed, all Members must participate in the legislative work, whatever they may be. According to Sieyès, great architect of the French Revolution, "When the discussion begins, we cannot judge the direction it will take to arrive at this discovery. .. From there, the need for the input of opinions. [...] All these special interests must be allowed to hurry, to clash with one another, to grasp the envious of the question, and to push it, each according to its strength, towards the purpose it proposes. In this trial, useful opinions, and those that would be harmful, separate; One falls, the other continues to move, to swing until, modified, purified by their reciprocal effects, they eventually merge into a single opinion." It would be positive if the National Assembly were to be more in line with the lessons learned from our tradition. This is an appeal amendment, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on the matter, especially since the House is currently derailed as we reform the heart of our democracy. It saddens me, this absenteeism nourishing anti-parliamentarianism in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u146	I should like to point out, Mr El Guerrab, that your amendment to make it compulsory for Members to be present in public today is taking a particularly bad turn. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u147	In substance, we all share your point of view. When we present in our constituencies the progress made at the beginning of the mandate on the moralization of public life, ethics and transparency, many citizens tell us that we must now fight absenteeism. We feel this reproach as an injustice, because our agendas are filled with concurrent meetings and are very constrained by our obligations in the constituencies and in Paris. Our workload and commitment are, for many of us, very high. The current parliamentary organisation prohibits the compulsory presence in the Chamber. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, but your amendment raises a citizen and democratic question. It is up to us, by changing the organization of annual working time, to develop methods to deal with the pitfall you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u148	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u149	I ask for a suspension of the sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u150	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u151	The meeting was resumed. Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u152	This subject is more than important. Mr rapporteur, thank you for your comprehensive answer. We are in fact subject to conflicting injunctions; Sometimes we're supposed to be in four different places at the same time! In this context, the amendment aims at sacrificing the public sitting. All meetings are important, but the session is the sacred moment for forming his opinion, as Sieyes observed. I regret that the House is working in this way, particularly today, when the benches are deserted because of the absence of the opposition. For my part, I do not consider myself in the opposition, and I believe that the reform of the Rules of Procedure of our House deserves us all to be present at the sitting. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u153	Other amendments to the additional article after Article 10 are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u154	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u155	Article 11 amends the rules on Members' intervention on articles in public sittings, in order to avoid redundant statements. It also revises Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure, with a view to reforming the system of explanations of vote, which are often of limited interest, since they are often redundant with the preceding debates. The President of the National Assembly and the majority propose to abolish this option opened by the Rules of Procedure. Perhaps it would have been better to limit the duration of explanations of vote to two minutes each. This choice would probably have been better. Moreover, this development is not totally negative, as the presiding officer may authorize a speaker to continue his or her speech beyond the time allotted to him or her. In addition, it may authorize a number of speakers to speak more than the number set out in the Rules of Procedure. Such a rationalisation of the parliamentary debate is generally in the right direction, even if it would have been desirable not to completely delete the explanations of vote, which take the place of "preface" to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u156	None of the amendments tabled on the article is defended. So I put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u157	I have before me an amendment, No 865, introducing an additional article after Article 11. The rapporteur has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u158	This is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u159	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u160	Rule 12 draws the consequences of the inclusion in Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the provisions relating to the organisation of the debate on amendments – the presentation of the amendment, the opinion of the committee, the opinion of the Government and the speaker's reply. Such wording will be more appropriate, as Article 100 deals with the discussion of amendments. At present, the Rules of Procedure provide for only one speech in response to the opinions of the Commission and the Government. However, the practice is to grant two. Thus, Article 12 of the motion for a resolution is intended to codify the practice in force. From now on, the written law will be in conformity with it. This is a reform of common sense, which must be supported and welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u161	As the deletion amendments are not defended, I put Article 12 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u162	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u163	Mr President, perhaps it would be easier to give me the floor only once, for all my speeches!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u164	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u165	[[Smile]] We must respect the procedure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u166	Rule 13 is intended to prevent requests for suspension of sittings and points of order that do not conform to the purpose for which these procedures were provided. According to the doctrine of the majority, reminders to the Rules of Procedure must have a specific basis, for example, in connection with the conduct of the proceedings or with a personal fact. They must regain their original meaning, which is to point out the lack of awareness of a provision of the Regulation. It is a question of avoiding any political instrumentalisation of legal rules – to prevent, as Jean-Yves Colmou once wrote, any misuse of "the florets of law and the daggers of procedure". But there is a point for reflection: should the refocusing of these tools on their original vocation not be accompanied by a strengthening of minority privileges, in favour of the opposition, in terms of legislation and control?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u167	I do not have before me any of the amendments tabled in Article 13, with the exception of point 843. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u168	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u170	Unfavorable opinion. We had the debate in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u171	Amendments to the Additional Article after Article 13 shall not be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u172	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No. 867.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u173	This is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u174	Two speakers are inscribed on the sub-item. Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u175	It's his moment of glory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u176	Rule 14 is in line with the last report of the Assembly's ethics officer. I would like to welcome this initiative by the President and the majority. The concept of conflict of interest is adapted: "any situation of interference between a public interest and private interests likely to influence or appear to influence the independent, impartial and objective exercise of the mandate. In accordance with Ms. Agnès Roblot-Trozier's recommendation, however, it is stated that "there is no conflict of interest when the Member of Parliament derives an advantage solely from belonging to the population as a whole or to a broad category of persons." The article also contains several provisions aimed at improving respect for ethics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u177	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u178	Article 14 improves the definition of conflict of interest. This is a welcome step forward. In the eyes of our fellow citizens, transparency is a necessity. They need to know that we are making progress on this. Several clarifications are made in the provisions of the text. They could be improved by the two amendments – which I am about to defend – concerning the deadline for the response of the Ethics Officer. Admittedly, precise rules are needed, but getting a response from the ethics officer quickly is no less necessary. Sometimes we have to wait, which prevents us from making certain decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u179	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u180	We come to the amendments. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 797.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u181	It is intended to enable Members to obtain the opinion of the Ethics Officer within a maximum period of one month when they seize it in order to prevent or stop a conflict of interest situation in which they are or may be in. Indeed, we sometimes wait for more than a month – sometimes much more – to respond to our requests, which is not desirable. If we are not sure if we can get a quick answer, I fear that some unconscionable Members will forget to ask the question, which would be regrettable. This issue should therefore be clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u183	We have been talking to each other and to the ethics officer about this. On the merits, it is important that the response times are compatible with the requirements of each particular case. However, it seems difficult for me to engrave a mandatory deadline in the regulation, for two reasons. First, the complexity of the applications must be taken into account. Some complex situations require time for analysis, which means a fairly long period of time. Then, from June 2017 to October 2018, the ethics officer was seized 1467 times, a large volume, even if the activity is more or less sustained depending on the periods. I do not agree with any amendment to include a time limit in the Rules of Procedure, as it would, in a way, introduce a right of the Member to receive a reply within that time limit. The deontologist has the means we give her. It is our responsibility to properly calibrate them so that the response times meet our requirements. My unfavorable opinion does not mean that the amendment is of no interest, but that the proposed provisions are not intended to be included in the regulation. This is more a management objective than a constraint under the Regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u184	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u185	I have taken note of the rapporteur's reply. I would like to take advantage of the fact that you are chairing the meeting, Mr President, to stress this point. It is important to calibrate the means attributed to our ethics officer. We often need to get his or her opinion on specific issues, and we feel that only a quick response can protect the MP who decides or acts. This question seems essential to me. In the absence of adequate means, we risk returning to the previous situation, which is to dispense with the opinion of the ethics officer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u186	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 675.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u187	This is a withdrawal amendment, which is intended to set a two-month time limit, instead of one, for the ethics officer to reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u189	Unfavorable. As Mr Maillard said, it is a matter of solving a real problem, but – understand my answer – I do not think that the rules of procedure should be engraved in the marble, which is a management objective rather than a right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u190	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u191	Article 15 provides, in a new Article 80-1-1, three provisions aimed at helping Members to protect themselves against conflicts of interest: the written or oral declaration of interest; the right of the Member not to participate in the vote – or even in the debates – when he considers that he is in a conflict of interest at the time of the examination of a text – is the deportation mechanism; the ability of a Member to refrain from exercising a function related to parliamentary work – that of rapporteur, for example – if he or she believes that he or she would risk placing him or her in a conflict of interest. However, the deportation rule may be questionable in the light of the principles of indivisibility of national sovereignty and the irresponsibility of parliamentarians to vote. However, the ultimate objective of this mechanism is to achieve greater transparency, in line with the recommendations of the National Assembly's Ethics Officer. These advances are to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u192	The amendments to this article are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u193	Amendment No 868 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u194	Amendment No 872 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u195	Since the amendment on the additional article after Article 15a is not defended, we turn to Article 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u196	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u197	Article 16 enriches the status of the deontologist of the National Assembly, following the ordinary and organic laws of 15 September 2017 for confidence in political life. These texts provide for the intervention of "the body responsible for parliamentary ethics" in the matter of the taking over of the costs of the mandate and supervision of the posts of parliamentary collaborators. That is why Rule 16 complements Rule 80(2) of the Rules of Procedure by stating that the Bureau defines the conditions under which the Ethics Officer may request that Members be provided with a document necessary for the performance of his duties. It also recalls that the Ethics Officer sends to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life a declaration of assets and a declaration of interest concerning him. These provisions are necessary, as long as we consider the recent scandals that have sparked our political life, and if we consider what is practiced in parliamentary democracies comparable to ours. It is therefore, again, a step forward that must be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u198	Amendment No 879 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u199	As none of the other three amendments to this Article are being defended, I put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u200	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 472.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u201	This article extends the scope of the duty of consultation of the ethics officer to all rules designed to prevent and stop conflicts of interest. The amendment calls for these decisions to be made public in any event. It is not up to the Bureau to define which ones should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u203	This is a subject on which we have discussed at length with the ethics officer. On some clear themes, such as the declaration of gifts or supported travel, we have decided for transparency and put this principle in the framework of the regulation. In this case, however, we prefer the Bureau to define the conditions under which opinions will be made public. Some opinions will not be public; Others will have to be requested, either because they concern a particular person, or because they have responded to a particular request from the Bureau, or even from the Chair. We have therefore chosen that the rules should be established by the Bureau, in consultation, of course, with the ethics officer. They will be transparent, as any Bureau decision is published. It is a question of clearly defining these publication rules, which also concern the time at which one will publish: one will naturally have to wait, for example, for the recipient of the notice to have received it. We found that, in many cases, ethical rules for publication address much more complex issues than simply whether or not the notice should be published. We have therefore chosen, and I think it is a wise decision, to refer the matter to a decision of the Bureau. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u204	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u205	Thank you for your answer, Mr rapporteur, but these difficulties could be solved by a different wording: a principle of mandatory publicity of opinions could be laid down, and the time when opinions are made public could be fixed by the Bureau. In my view, the current wording maintains a kind of self-interest. So I am not following you in your reasoning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u206	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u207	This Article introduces a new Article 80-3-1 in the Rules of Procedure to specify the conditions under which the Ethics Officer may be consulted by Members, as well as the situations in which information on the existence of family ties, copies of tax certificates and, at the end of the term of office, the amount of the balance of the advance of the money order fee must be sent to him. In this context, requests for consultation and opinions given may only be made public in their entirety by the Member concerned. This is a step forward in transparency that must be welcomed. After so many decades of scandals, our legislature has been given an imperative mandate to succeed in this area. Let us show the people that we have understood it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u208	I have before me three amendments, Nos 798, 678 and 802, which can be presented together. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u209	Like those which I have previously defended, Amendments Nos 798 and 678 provide that the ethics officer must reply within one month. Amendment No 802, on the other hand, proposes that the decisions of the ethics officer should be included – after anonymisation, so as to guarantee their confidentiality – in a collection available to any Member. This would save Members a lot of time, since by consulting the opinions already given by the Ethics Officer, they could avoid asking him the same questions. Similarly, as the latter is less often seized, it could work more calmly and deepen other topics. Finally, the existence of such a register would have a virtue of transparency vis-à-vis citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u211	Of the first two, relating to the deadline for reply, we have already had the debate. As for No. 802, it tends to reduce the flow of requests by creating a kind of "FAQs" grouping the standard questions. The idea is good, but I don't think a registry is the right solution. If opinions are likely to be valid in 80 or 70 per cent of cases, they must be made known, but it is surely not necessary to make public the answers given by the ethics officer to individual questions. The ethics officer has, in her job, a very clear assessment of the limit between what should be made public and what should not be made public. On some issues, she made it very clear that publicity should be systematic – this was the subject of a report published last December: I take the examples of gifts of more than 150 euros, or travel financed by a third party, for which a public declaration will be mandatory, in the interests of transparency. But each of us can also, on an individual basis, seize the ethics officer to obtain his or her opinion on a personal cause of concern. In this case, we will not necessarily want this opinion to be made public. So there is a kind of balance to be found, and the deontologist is quite able to manage this complexity. I agree with the method of collecting the most frequently asked questions, but generically, not specifically on each file. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u212	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u213	The purpose of this article is to incorporate into the regulation the power of injunction granted to the deontologist by Article 8c of the Ordinance of 17 November 1958. This applies to cases where the Ethics Officer finds that a Member of Parliament employs an employee of his or her extended family, or who has a family relationship with another Member, in breach of his or her ethical obligations. It will now be possible to put an end to these situations and to make the injunction public. In this regard, it should be noted that in administrative law, the recognition of a power of injunction to the judge has considerably changed his office. By virtue of a kind of parallelism of forms, this provision can be expected to be more effective in the work of the ethics officer and thus, in the medium term, significant progress in this field. That is why this reform of common sense must be supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u214	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u215	Article 20 carries an important innovation, since it allows the ethics officer to be provided with any information or document to ensure compliance with the code of conduct applicable to representatives of interests. Thus, when it finds a breach, the ethics officer may refer the matter to the President of the National Assembly, so that he may address a formal notice to the representative of the interests concerned. If it finds that a Member of Parliament, a staff member or an official or a staff member of the National Assembly has responded favourably to a request from a representative of interest, in the absence of knowledge of the provisions of the code of conduct applicable to him, it shall address its observations to the person concerned. This provision will provide a useful framework for the activities of lobbyists, lobbyists and representatives of associations. Such procedures also exist in comparable parliamentary democracies, and the current situation in the European Parliament underlines their need. It is gratifying that the National Assembly has such tools: while it is positive that the living forces of the nation and civil society can make parliamentarians aware of their concerns, this cannot be done in an opacity. There is therefore a need for guidance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u216	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 468.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u217	Article 20 provides that the ethics officer may be seized, inter alia, by deputies or by the President of the National Assembly, but there is no provision for her to act on her own initiative. The amendment therefore tends to allow it to self-register.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u219	This series of proposals that you are defending, Mrs Batho, has already been discussed in the debates on the law for confidence in political life. In preparing the motion for a resolution, we chose, on this aspect, to take over the law, the whole law, just the law, without repeating or "overtransposing", in a way, the provisions that had been passed then. In this case, the self-referral of the deontologist is not provided for by either the Sapin 2 law or the law on confidence in political life. There is a strong desire to include existing legislation in the regulation, but also to go further. The method we followed, in consultation with the ethics officer, is to incorporate into our text all the recommendations contained in his report last December – on mandates, on advertising rules... I repeat, however, that we do not wish to over-transpose existing laws or repeat the debate we had at the time. The substance of this amendment, together with the following, suggests interesting avenues for reflection. Some may be the subject of a recommendation by the Ethics Officer, in dialogue with her. But, at this stage, the opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u220	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u221	We are discussing provisions on representatives of interests, i.e. lobbies. I'm not trying to get back on the law. But we are writing that the deontologist of the National Assembly cannot, on her own initiative, control the actions of lobbies in the National Assembly. The ethics officer must be able to self-register and, for example, carry out checks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u222	I have before me three amendments, Nos 473, 467 and 465, which can be presented together. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u223	[[Smile]] These amendments give the Ethics Officer the authority to issue notices to representatives of interests. They would also have to be made public. Today, petitions fall under the exclusive jurisdiction of the President of the National Assembly. However, I have experienced situations where this one – it was not you, Mr President – was slow to respond to requests from parliamentarians about the actions of certain lobbies. In this case, it was the pesticide lobby, better known as the Union of Plant Protection Industries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u224	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u225	This is, of course, a major issue, for which I am responsible in the Bureau of the National Assembly. We organized 48 hours of reflection on this subject with academics and actors of all kinds, including associations and lobbies. Let us be clear: it is up to the President of the National Assembly to act and sanction. The deontologist can contact him, talk to him, seize a case that would be a problem. But sanction is a prerogative of the president. The ethics officer gives a formal opinion, not only on the code of ethics of Members, but also on the code of conduct of representatives of interests. A project is also under way to review the latter, following the colloquium on lobbying to which I have just referred. You have understood that the power to act against a representative of interests who behaves badly is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly, who has it in full and complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u226	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u227	In practice, these provisions are not satisfactory. I had a situation where it took three months for the ethics officer to be seized by the President of the National Assembly of the detestable acts of a representative of interests; Indeed, it was only once the facts had been denounced in this rostrum. All the previous steps – a letter to the President of the National Assembly, a meeting with the Ethics Officer... – had had absolutely no follow-up. Formality is a matter of the order, and therefore of the legislative debate; That's an answer you could have given me. On the other hand, on the procedures, and in particular on the articulation of the powers of the President of the National Assembly with those of the Ethics Officer, on what she can do on her own and on the follow-up she can himself give to an alert, there is certainly a problem today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u228	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 466.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u229	No information from the High Authority for the transparency of public life is foreseen today when representatives of interest in the National Assembly do not respect the rules imposed on them. Let us imagine – it has happened for the Golden Mountain – that in the National Assembly we find that representatives of interest contact parliamentarians, that they ask for hearings by parliamentarians, without being recorded in the register of representatives of interests: today, it is not written anywhere that, in such a situation, the ethics officer must transmit this information to the High Authority for the transparency of public life. In this case, I did, and the Ethics Officer had discussions with the HATVP. But it would seem to me preferable to provide that, when a breach of the legal obligations of representatives of interests is found, this information is transmitted to the High Authority, which then has the power to decide on possible sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u230	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u231	On the substance, it seems to me logical that in the event of a decision taken against a representative of interests, there is coordination with the High Authority, which manages the directory of representatives of interests, and which ensures – imperfectly, certainly – the monitoring of their activities. As far as the form is concerned, I do not think that such a provision falls within the scope of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure. All our colleagues must realize that never before has a National Assembly regulation gone so far in terms of ethics, conflicts of interest, monitoring the activity of representatives of interests. I hear your arguments well, Mrs. Batho; do not see in my answers the sign of reluctance to progress in this area. We are at the forefront of these issues, and I recall that we have followed the full recommendations of the Ethics Officer. Unfavorable opinion at this stage, but I repeat that everyone must be aware of the progress that we have made, which is not well-publicized, but absolutely important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u232	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u233	I am not following you, Mr. Rapporteur. This paragraph states: "Where the ethics officer finds a breach of the code of conduct applicable to representatives of interests, he shall refer the matter to the President. The latter may issue a notice of formal notice to the relevant interest representative [...]". But this failure must also be reported to the competent authority in order to appreciate that a lobby does not comply with the laws relating to the transparency of political life! Otherwise, there will be two parallel worlds: on the one hand that of the National Assembly, on the other hand that of the HATVP, its competences and the sanctions it can take. I take the example of the Golden Mountain. Lobbyists have asked for appointments to a large number of parliamentarians without being included in the register. They also asked for an appointment at the Ministry of Ecology, and they were received by François de Rugy's office, although they were not included in the directory of representatives of interests. It is important that both information be centralized by HATVP! It is an amendment of common sense: I sincerely thought it would be adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u234	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 469.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u235	The laws require representatives of interests to register in a register, i.e. to declare their activities; But today the National Assembly does not take any consequence of this obligation. This amendment specifies that standing committees and other bodies of the National Assembly may not conduct hearings of persons who are representatives of interests without the latter having fulfilled their legal obligations to register in the register. This is a very simple amendment. The register is recent, and the law is even more so; But now it seems essential to provide clarification. Commissions and other bodies must ensure that the representatives of interests they hear are in order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u236	[[At seventeen twenty-five, Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u238	The definition of an interest representative today, as you know, is based on different criteria – for example, the number of interactions with parliamentarians. In fact, some rules are problematic, as our debates have shown: if a Member contacts a representative of interests, he is not supposed to include them in his report; If it is the representative of interests who contacts him, then he is forced to register him. We have to change them. The current definition is based on the fact that a person carries out more than ten representation actions in 12 months. We are not individually able to carry out the necessary checks to ensure that we do so. I would also remind you that a representative of interests who does not declare himself as such is subject to sanctions. I agree with you on one point: it is good practice to check whether your interlocutors are listed in the directory – I do it myself systematically. At the end of last year, we had for the first time a feedback on the Sapin 2 law, which, among other things, introduced mandatory reporting. HATVP made recommendations, in particular on the evolution of the granularity of reporting, but also on the control of obligations. That's exactly what you're describing: you have to identify entities that have not declared themselves when they should have done so – exposing themselves, I repeat, to rather heavy sanctions. It does not seem useful to me to refrain from meeting with someone because our interpretation is that it should have been included in the directory of interest representatives, and that it did not. On the other hand, the code of conduct applicable to interest representatives that we are reviewing will obviously have to address this point. We will of course consult the ethics officer, but it seems obvious that it is not acceptable for representatives of interests to act without declaring themselves to be such, and to come to the Bourbon Palace as if nothing had happened: it is quite simple to establish whether someone is a representative of interests, if he has already done ten actions, for example. I refer you once again to the proceedings of our two days devoted to the subject; These reflections will have to feed into the new guide to best practice of interest representatives. But, individually, we are not in a position to assess whether or not our interlocutors are representatives of interests. Therefore, your amendment does not seem to me to be working. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u239	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u240	It cannot be said, as the rapporteur has done, that any representative of interests who does not comply with the rules is subject to sanctions, since the House has just rejected the amendment providing that the deontologist informs the HATVP, the authority which can impose the sanctions, of any failure in this area. I hear that work is under way, but the reform of the Rules of Procedure is now! Of course, as you said, there are obligations on the representatives of interests. But we are discussing the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and that is why this amendment refers to the obligations on its bodies. By participating in various parliamentary fact-finding missions, such as the one on the use of plant protection products, or in hearings by the Standing Committees, I have found that in the National Assembly Members have no reflex to check whether their interlocutors are on the register of representatives of interest or to warn them that they will not be able to be heard if they have not done so. For my part, I have done so in certain situations. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to encourage Members to develop such a reflex.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u241	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u242	You say that representatives of interests are not subject to sanctions because we do not introduce them into the Rules of Procedure. However, it is the law that lays down obligations for representatives of interests. The law in force, which is very clear, provides that an interest representative who does not declare his or her activity is subject to sanctions, which go far beyond the reprimand that the President of the National Assembly might impose. Each Member may refer the matter to the High Authority if he suspects a person who has been interviewed to be a representative of interests, whereas he is not on the register, which, I would remind him, is public. These good practices must be followed. I am speaking here to each of our colleagues, in order to encourage them to acquire the reflex to check on the High Authority's website if a person who asks for an appointment is on the register of representatives of interests. If necessary, this issue should be addressed during the interview. If the person is not referred to, he or she will have to be informed that he or she must register on the register and, on the other hand, report the person to the High Authority. HATVP, as I recall, has full powers of investigation and sanctions, including criminal sanctions – it is currently debating whether monetary penalties should also apply. In memory, a lobbyist who does not declare himself liable to a fine of 15,000 euros and a year's imprisonment, a penalty much heavier than the reprimand that might appear in the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. I would therefore not like to see one remaining in the idea that there is no sanction. Sanctions do exist: the law provides for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u243	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 470.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u244	These penalties are imposed when HATVP is aware of a breach.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u245	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u246	Otherwise, there are no sanctions. The purpose of this amendment is to include in the Rules of Procedure the code of conduct applicable to representatives of interests, which the rapporteur referred to in one of his replies. The current code is very imperfect. With regard to its status, I wonder whether it should be included in the Rules of Procedure, rather than referring to another document, which would be prepared by the Bureau. I also wonder about the pace of work that is under way to renovate this code of conduct.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u248	I want to make this clear: if a Member receives the representative of a lobby that has not declared himself, he must report it to the High Authority. Therefore, it is not the duty of the ethics officer to do so, but of all of us. I repeat, the absence of a declaration constitutes an offence punishable by one year's imprisonment. Even if the process is new, I would therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to ask your colleagues to check this point systematically on the High Authority's website. Everyone will have to adopt this reflex, and quickly. With regard to the code of conduct, the delegation responsible for representatives of interests and study groups, which I chair, has already begun a reflection on the subject. It was she who organized the two-day symposium that I spoke about and attended by Jean-Louis Nadal, President of the High Authority, the Ethics Officer of the National Assembly, President Richard Ferrand, who opened the debates, as well as numerous academics, lobbyists' associations, citizen associations, lawyers and citizens. We have brought out 79 proposals, some of which will feed into the code of ethics. We have set ourselves the objective of presenting the new text, on which the Ethics Officer will give an opinion, to the Bureau in the fall. Mrs Batho, I agree with you on one point: the way in which a society manages lobbies is a genuine democratic marker. I hope that we will have convinced you that the National Assembly has rarely done the same in this area, and that it places this requirement at a high level of priority. It is up to us to take the next step.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u249	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u250	This article states that "the Office shall define the conditions for the establishment of a preventive and accompaniment mechanism for combating all forms of harassment and discrimination. I am astonished that such arrangements have not been made before, especially in my heart. I want to welcome this progress because harassment, by its insidious nature, can lead to tragic situations. There is a need to remove quickly those harassers who may be in our hemicycle or working environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u251	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 471.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u252	If I agree with the arguments of the many colleagues who have left the Chamber to protest against other articles of this motion for a resolution, I am here to defend women, including parliamentary collaborators. The new regulation once again provides for a referral to a Bureau decision on the establishment of a mechanism for the protection and support of victims of harassment, whose words must be heard. Action is urgent, because the current situation is unacceptable. This issue has been addressed on several occasions by the Ethics Officer. In its last annual report, the Commission considers that "it is desirable and urgent to professionalize the system for preventing and combating harassment and to adopt it on a multidisciplinary team of professionals trained in issues of suffering at work, listening to and caring for victims. Victims should be able to turn, as the case may be, either to a labour law specialist, to a doctor, or to a psychologist, while at the same time having the opportunity, as today, to refer to harassment or to the deontologist. » According to the answers to the anonymous questionnaire of the collective Chair Collaborator, which we are a number of parliamentarians to support, one in two collaborator claims to have been the victim of sexist or sexual jokes, or inappropriate statements about her appearance or personal life; One in three collaborators claims to be the victim of sexist insults, insistent or inconvenient attitudes – MPs may also be in this case; One in five collaborators – one in five! – was a victim of sexual assault in the National Assembly. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] That is why the amendment I have tabled – other colleagues have tabled similar ones – aims to include in the regulation the creation of an independent body, composed of equally independent personalities. These harassment situations cannot be resolved within the National Assembly, where the law of silence has prevailed for so many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u253	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u254	Unfavorable opinion. While the mechanism to combat all forms of harassment was not part of the original proposal, we have examined in committee many quite legitimate amendments aimed at integrating this issue into the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure. We were very quickly convinced of their merits, but we therefore wondered how we could proceed. Some amendments proposed a listening line, others, such as Mrs Batho's, the use of a body outside the House, or a deontologist. Among the multitude of proposals, we have chosen to enshrine in the regulation the obligation for the Office to precisely define a mechanism against all forms of harassment. Once the amendment had been adopted in committee, before the debate in session, we exchanged with Mr Larive, who chairs the working group on working conditions in the National Assembly and the status of parliamentary collaborators, in which the issue of harassment is discussed in particular. Mr. Larive first told us that we made the mistake of combining harassment and discrimination. He convinced us, after an exchange with him and other participants in the working group, that these two topics are of different logic. That is why I will be defending an amendment to delete the reference to discrimination. In the end, we have chosen, on the basis of the amendments tabled, to indicate that the Bureau has an obligation to define precisely a device – which is not only a means, such as a listening line – "prevention and accompanying" – these words are important. But when Mrs Batho invites external experts – I observe in passing that the ethics officer himself satisfies this condition of independence – I believe that such a decision does not fall within the scope of the Rules of Procedure. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] The subject, which concerns us all, is taken very seriously by the House. The facts you are echoing are disturbing and force us to react. We have therefore chosen to impose on the Office the obligation to define a preventive and accompaniment mechanism to combat all forms of harassment. With this formulation, we have a requirement, as many companies, bodies and associations do through their rules of procedure. This is obviously an absolute necessity. Mr. El Guerrab and Ms. Batho stressed the urgency of action; It is now up to the Bureau to define the details of the arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u255	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u256	I would point out that it is the Ethics Officer herself who calls for the meeting of a team of multidisciplinary professionals independent of the National Assembly. Things are moving forward, of course, but very slowly. A large number of deputies had to write to the President of the National Assembly in order for the study carried out by "Chair colaboratrice" to elicit a reaction. This situation, this slowness, is not acceptable. Today, we are sufficiently informed about what is happening. I would therefore prefer that a device – or at least its general principles – be included in the regulation. I fear that the Bureau's decision will take weeks or even months, and that we will eventually get bogged down, when urgent action is needed. If I intend to move forward, however, I would have liked the rapporteur to specify the time frame within which the future arrangements will come into being.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u257	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u258	We have been many to give the alert following the investigation of the collective "Collaborator Chair". Article 20 bis is a step forward – everyone can agree – but we must collectively be very demanding about its concrete translation. A first step is being taken, from which it is our responsibility to adopt a serious and effective mechanism to protect employees and, if necessary, to enforce sanctions. These are provided for in the Labour Code and the Penal Code. Such acts must not go unpunished. I welcome this progress, and I solemnly say that we will be a number, on every bench, to show a very great demand for its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u259	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u260	Everyone here is aware of the importance and urgency of achieving results. However, I remain in my role as rapporteur on the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure. I am not in a position to present an action plan, which is entirely the prerogative of the Bureau, and I will not speak on its behalf. A working group has been set up to formulate proposals and, as I understand, a high level of priority is given to this issue. As you said, Mr. Balanant, certain actions fall under the law. Thus, the filing of a complaint is absolutely indispensable. Of course, we must encourage anyone who is harassed to file a complaint, but that is not a matter of the Assembly's Rules of Procedure, but of the law. I would not like to give the impression that we have only taken a small step. The solution I am proposing seems to me to be perfectly suited to the very nature of the regulation. On these issues, we never go fast enough, and it is true that moving faster in terms of prevention and accompaniment might avoid cases. Given the exercise we are being asked to do, my proposal is reaching its target. This is not a very small step in waiting for the next one. The Office will then be responsible for achieving results through the mechanism that will be put in place. We will be collectively – the Bureau is, after all, only the voice of all Members – responsible for the relevance of the system and accounting for results.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u261	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u262	I would like to take the floor again because this is a very important subject. You are right, rapporteur, we are moving forward – I acknowledge and greet him. You stress the importance of filing a complaint. But the whole problem is, as we know, the difficulty of filing a complaint for some people who have been attacked. The provisions of our law in this regard are quite well conceived, both in the Labour Code and in the Penal Code. Then why do we have to be demanding? Because it is necessary to offer victims, collaborators who would have doubts or questions, a place where they could confide in and be advised. I know that such a role has been given to the deontologist, but this one asks us for resources, and we will give it to her. The relationship between the member-employer and his or her collaborator is quite special. According to the Labour Code, we are the superior of our collaborators, therefore the one to whom they must turn in case of a problem. In some cases, the superior may be the aggressor; Sometimes he's another collaborator. So we need to create a cell where words can be collected. We are moving forward and we will be several – Delphine Batho, Matthieu Orphelin, Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, I will not be able to name all the names here – to ensure that this continues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u263	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u264	The link of subordination increases the seriousness of the acts of harassment. I hope, Mr rapporteur, that relations between Members will also be taken into account in the Bureau's reflection. Harassment between colleagues is not acceptable. A body must be able to gather the testimony of persons who are the victims of harassment, regardless of whether they are involved in the relationship between MPs and collaborators or between fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u265	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 506.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u266	This amendment, tabled by Gaël Le Bohec, aims to involve the ethics officer in the establishment of the system for the prevention of situations of moral or sexual harassment, knowing that the latter is already entitled to receive reports of harassment and discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u268	My opinion is based on the same logic as the previous one. You propose to set a deadline for the introduction of the preventive and accompaniment system. But the regulation is not an action plan, it lays down long-term rules until the following amendment. The Bureau may at any time deal with this matter and decide on the modalities of this mechanism. The regulation – it is my conception but also its history – does not set objectives or deadlines for specific action. Article 20a lays down in the Regulation the full responsibility of our institution to establish a preventive and accompaniment mechanism to combat all forms of harassment. However, the terms or time limits fall under another standard, the Bureau's decision in this case. Unfavorable notice, not on the substance – there is an urgent need to act – but on the form – the regulation is not the appropriate place to set a deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u269	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u270	As I am not its first signatory, I am not withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u271	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No. 912.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u272	As I mentioned earlier, the consolidated amendment that I tabled in committee provided for the establishment of a 'prevention and accompanying mechanism for combating all forms of harassment and discrimination'. However, the working group chaired by Mr. Larive convinced me not to mix the two – harassment and discrimination – since the latter is a subject in its own right. With this amendment, I agree with his request. Mr Larive, had he been present, would have defended the same amendment he had tabled. My amendment is intended to echo the work of this trans-party group which has formally asked me to delete the term "discrimination" because this subject is a different logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u273	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u274	I do not understand this amendment. Rule 20a provides that "the Office shall define the conditions for the establishment of a preventive and accompaniment mechanism for combating all forms of harassment and discrimination. » By following your reasoning in refusing to include in the regulations the exact modalities of the arrangement, it is possible to consider that the Bureau would be perfectly free to decide to introduce a mechanism against harassment and another against discrimination. A sexist statement, is it discrimination or harassment? By deleting the word "discrimination", you remove the sexist remark from the perimeter of the device. If the sexist remark has not been repeated, if it has not been made by a superior to a subordinate, it does not correspond to a harassment situation. This amendment is therefore a problem. I hear the argument that different situations require different accompaniment arrangements. But I cannot follow the reasoning that leads to no longer doing anything about discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u275	It's incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u276	[[At 17.05 p.m., Mr. Richard Ferrand replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u277	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u278	Finally, I regret to have listened to the suggestion of the trans-party working group that the words "and discrimination" should be removed. This does not mean that we are not fighting discrimination. I was the author of the original text. I don't want to give you the impression that I'm saying no to everything. For this time, I say yes to a thoughtful job. I would have liked Mr Larive to defend his amendment. It's a bit awkward for me to do it on his behalf, but it seemed important to me to echo this important subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u279	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u280	I have read the summary of Mr Larive's amendment. It states that the two situations are different. It would be sufficient to review the wording and put the word "device" in the plural, for example. The deletion of the word "discrimination" poses the risk, in many situations, of a rejection of the classification of harassment. So there's a big problem. You are restricting the perimeter of the device to situations of sexual or moral harassment by excluding sexist, discriminatory, homophobic, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u281	We are in this situation where the rapporteur defends an amendment from the Group of the European People's Party, which is not present. Like, absent people are often wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u282	Amendments to the Additional Article after Article 20a shall not be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u283	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u284	Rule 21 is intended to extend from seven to ten days the period between the posting of the text adopted by the committee and the deadline for tabling amendments in the sitting. The aim is to contribute to improving the quality of legislative work. Members will have more time to prepare their amendments. It is important that they be aware of the work carried out by the committee seized on the merits when they are not a member of the committee. They must have time for reflection in order to propose constructive amendments. This is called collective intelligence. This reform will further guarantee the principles of clarity and sincerity in the parliamentary debate. Moreover, the proposed mechanism had the merit of flexibility, since that period could not be applied when the accelerated procedure had been initiated or when reference was made to texts relating to states of crisis. The working capacity of the National Assembly will therefore not be undermined. By way of comparison, it should be noted that this principle of maintaining Parliament's capacity to function effectively is essential in Germany. It is very frequently invoked by parliamentarians themselves and by the constitutional judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u285	The first nine amendments to Article 21 are not defended. Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 283.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u286	It is intended to extend the time between the provision of the Commission's text and its consideration at the sitting, whether or not the accelerated procedure has been initiated. The establishment of sufficient time between the examination in committee and the examination in session is a prerequisite for promoting high-quality parliamentary work. We therefore propose to replace "as soon as possible" with "not later than seven days before the commencement of its consideration in session".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u288	In the event of an accelerated procedure, the logic is to make available the text adopted by the committee "as soon as possible". According to the Chair of the Law Commission, the deadline is usually about two weeks. I do not wish to rigidise the accelerated procedure, which requires some flexibility, with the steering being the responsibility of the committee chairmen. I am not in favour of the idea of setting a deadline in the marble. The regulation indicates that we are making our best effort in the event of an accelerated procedure, with the burden of providing the right level of effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u289	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u290	Making the best effort is a good thing, but we still have to respect the work of parliamentarians. We can certainly speed up, but it is to the detriment of the quality of this work. Do we want Parliament to work? In the case of registration, a period of 24 hours is sufficient. If we want parliamentarians to work, I think a seven-day deadline is the minimum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u291	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to support Amendment No. 699.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u292	This amendment, of which Mrs Vichnievsky is the first signatory, is in line with the one just defended by Mr Isaac-Sibille. Rule 21 tends to extend from seven to ten days the period between the provision of the text adopted by the committee and the commencement of its consideration in the sitting. This is an excellent reform. In the same spirit, we would like to introduce a minimum time limit in the event of an accelerated procedure and for subsequent readings, which is not currently foreseen. This is all the more necessary in view of the fact that the majority of bills are now being considered under the accelerated procedure. If the scope of the provision in article 21 were to be limited to other cases, a minority in number, this might appear as a trompe-l'oeil reform. I would like to take this opportunity to take a look at the other deadlines. In addition to the question I have just raised, there is the question of the delay between the publication of the report and the deadline for tabling amendments, and the six-week constitutional deadline between the tabling of the text and the examination at the sitting. The latter period is not met as the accelerated procedure is becoming more and more frequent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u293	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u294	It is good practice to put the text online as quickly as possible, so that Members can have as much time as possible to table amendments before the sitting. We are making every effort to do this. For the rest, I am convinced that we must not be coerced. Sometimes we need to go very quickly, especially in the event of a crisis. After the Bataclan attacks, the National Assembly and the Senate were able to deliberate very quickly, within 48 hours, on the text relating to the state of emergency. If we climb this type of arrangement into the marble, we could no longer react quickly. I repeat, it is a good method to require us to make the text available as soon as possible, in order to respect the right of amendment, but we must not force ourselves, because we must maintain some flexibility in order to respond in all situations. I am therefore against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u295	Are you of the same opinion, Mr. Rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u296	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u297	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u298	Let us be clear: Article 42 of the Constitution provides for an exception to the six-week period when the accelerated procedure has been initiated, and when the texts examined relate to states of crisis. In this case, it is absolutely not a question of reviewing these provisions. By definition, if there is an emergency, you have to go fast. However, we must also be aware that the accelerated procedure is often used to move faster without necessarily having to be urgent. The point of the six-week constitutional deadline is precisely to allow us to work in good conditions. As a member of the Law Committee, I do note that you are doing your utmost, Madam Chair of the Committee, to meet the deadlines. Nevertheless, we are convinced that "burning a delay into the marble," as you said, would be an additional guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u299	The following four amendments are not defended. Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor to support Amendment No. 713.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u300	Mr Molac, who was the first signatory, did not want him to be defended. So I won't defend him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u301	I take it he's retired.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u302	Amendments to the Additional Article after Article 21 shall not be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u303	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u304	Article 22 is intended to ease the procedure for referral for opinion. It provides for the possibility for the rapporteur of the committee responsible to present this opinion orally to the committee on its merits. In return, it seeks to delete the last paragraph of Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that "notices shall be filed, printed and distributed" and that "the committee which has decided to give its opinion [may] always give it verbally on the day fixed for the discussion of the text". The aim of the President of the Assembly and the current majority is to streamline the debates. The committee chairmen agreed to this balance, but it may only favour the majority. Besides, I don't know if this agreement still holds...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u305	Amendment No 492 by Mr Gaël Le Bohec is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u306	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman to support Amendment No. 892.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u307	It is intended to address concerns that have emerged in our consultations. This motion for a resolution aims to enhance the role of the committees, in keeping with the constitutional reform of 2008. However, we had originally foreseen that the rapporteurs of the committees seized for their opinions would no longer be able to intervene in this capacity in open session, which was a somewhat extreme position. After consultation and dialogue, we made the following proposal. When the committees take up their opinions, the procedure will now take place at committee level. On the other hand, the committee seised on the merits may also, on its own initiative, refer to another committee for its opinion, in particular where a title falls more within the competence of the latter. In such a case, the rapporteur of the committee referred to for an opinion may speak at the sitting, both to express the work of the committee when presenting the text and to give his opinion when examining the articles before it. I think this mechanism is quite consensual. We have submitted it to the group chairmen – few of them are present this afternoon... – and to all committee chairmen. I therefore propose that you introduce this way of working.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u308	The following three amendments are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u309	We come to a series of amendments with an additional article after Article 22. The first eight are not defended. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 693.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u310	Article 40 of the Constitution is often debated. Members often do not understand why their amendment was declared inadmissible on its basis. We propose that, whenever an amendment is declared inadmissible under Article 40, a notice, which could be summarized as a few words, be sent by e-mail to the Member concerned. This would have a twofold advantage: the Member would immediately know why his amendment was refused; This would no doubt enable it to understand the mechanism and would prevent it from tabling further amendments of the same type at a later stage. This would not be very difficult to implement. The processing of certain amendments could even be automated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u312	I have an unfavorable opinion. However, since many amendments have not been defended, I would like to make a point on the very important issue of the inadmissibility of the amendments. The Constitution contains three articles dealing with this subject: article 40, which we all know; Article 41, relating to the respective fields of law and regulation; Rule 45, which provides that an amendment must have a direct or indirect connection with the substance of the text. The Constitution has not changed, but the way in which these provisions are applied in our working methods has evolved, simply because the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council has sanctioned more and more legislative riders on the basis of article 45. The purpose of this motion for a resolution is to "merge" not the substance, which falls within the scope of the Constitution, but the way things are organised in this area. Of course, it was not necessary to include this in the regulation, but we wanted to see a parallel with the existing provisions on financial inadmissibility. This solution has been validated by the Constitutional Council. Indeed, the latter was referred to the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law by opposition deputies who requested a written explanation or a remedy when an amendment was declared inadmissible. In its decision, the Council made it clear that the practice followed in the Assembly was constitutional: there was no need for an appeal procedure and there was no obligation to state reasons for the decision. Of course, this would not prevent the Council from intervening if we were to become excessive in our practices. At this stage, he gave a satisfecite to the Law Commission. I therefore propose that we remain within the arrangements. It was well thought out and articulated. It is strictly in line with the recommendations and decisions of the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u313	The following amendments are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u314	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u315	The use of motions of procedure is too often misguided: they have been diverted from their original purpose and have become the place of redundant interventions. None of the 258 motions tabled during the Fourteenth Parliament were passed. And history repeats itself: since the beginning of the current legislature, 166 motions have been tabled, but none have been adopted, except of course in the context of the " niches" reserved for the agenda established by opposition or minority groups. That is why rule 23 provides for the removal of the possibility of defending a motion to refer to committee and reducing the time devoted to the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u316	The first seven amendments to Article 23 are not defended. Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 493.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u317	This amendment by my colleague Gaël Le Bohec aims to preserve the expression of the draftsman for an opinion in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u319	It seems to me to have fully responded to this request, earlier, by presenting the consensus provision contained in Amendment No 892. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u320	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 896.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u321	Coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u322	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to support Amendment No. 793.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u323	Amendments Nos 793, 804 and 794 as corrected form a whole: the first tends to reduce the time devoted to defending a point of order from 15 to 10 minutes, while the other two aim to reintroduce the possibility of supporting a motion to refer to committee – but only at first reading. It seems to us that, at this stage of the discussion, the motion for referral to committee makes sense. We would like it to be defended at the end of the general discussion, which serves to inform the debate and to present everyone's position on the text. We also have some doubts about the constitutionality of the removal of the motion for referral to committee. Its restoration would offer a guarantee from this point of view. At the same time, we wish to shorten the debate. As has been said on several occasions, in ten minutes there is ample time to present the reasons for a request for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u324	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u325	As you said, these amendments are linked. I should like to remind you that the defence of a point of order gives rise to two minutes of explanation of vote by the speaker in each group. It is therefore twenty-six minutes in total, not ten. On the substance, we have not retained the motion to refer it back to committee in the new version of our Rules of Procedure because, as has been pointed out, it has only been adopted very exceptionally – perhaps on one or two occasions – since 1958. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. I could accept Amendment No 793 and reject the other two, but that would not be very correct, since they are intrinsically linked. Without prejudging the interpretation of the constitutional judge, who is sovereign, I read the basic law as follows: the right to table a motion of prior rejection – which may raise a question of unconstitutionality – results from constitutional requirements, which is not the case with the motion to refer to committee. There is therefore, in my view, no constitutional obstacle to the removal of this last point of order; I would remind you that we have reinstated a very precise provision, if I am not mistaken, in Article 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u326	The following 12 amendments are not defended. Amendment No 804 by Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u327	Amendment No 794 corrected by Mrs Marielle de Sarnez was defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u328	Amendments to the Additional Article after Article 23 shall not be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u329	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u330	Article 24 establishes an a priori screening mechanism for amendments that would not fall within the scope of the law. It is a question of giving precedence to section 41 of our Constitution and, more broadly, its sections 34 and 37. In essence, article 24 provides that legislative provisions must be within the scope of the law. However, in practice, this requirement is not fully implemented, particularly when compared with the requirement of financial admissibility set out in article 40 of the Constitution. That is why I supported Mr Erwan Balanant's amendment. Article 45 of the Constitution states that "any amendment shall be admissible at first reading, provided that it has a link, even indirect, with the text [...]. This provision is interpreted in a rather extensive manner in our assembly, which has led the Constitutional Council to censor the horsemen. The pressure exerted by the constitutional judge must lead Parliament to improve its control. That is why this reform is positive. It is also, and above all, a matter of improving the quality of legislative work. I believe that is an essential ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u331	The first 15 amendments are not defended. Amendment No 688 by Mr Erwan Balanant is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u332	For the same reasons as explained above, unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u333	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u334	Through this article, it is a matter of streamlining our discussions in a public session. From now on, statements on the articles will take place "within the limit of one speaker per group and one Member not belonging to any group [...]. The article also provides that "Speakers of groups shall be designated by their chair or delegate. This article will also close the gap between practice and written law, since it is usually the president who designates the speakers of his group – groups thus help to structure and, to some extent, stabilize the parliamentary game. Promoting a clear expression of groups on an article therefore seems a welcome development, in line with the long-standing parliamentaryism of political groups in France, even though it is important to take care of excessive collectivisation of speech. Moreover, the Member will be able to continue to defend his positions by presenting amendments. The proposed scheme is therefore rather balanced and flexible, even though we had some discussions on it yesterday, which led to the departure of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u335	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u336	This is an article that should have been debated. It seems to me necessary to discuss it, even if the oppositions are absent. In my view, its provisions are a step forward. I remember that, in some texts, some 60 Members could be included in an article. There was then a bit of ridiculous ping-pong between the opposition and the majority – the two can, it must be said, be put in the same bag. There have been times when a Member of Parliament came forward to respond to an argument that has just been put forward. As a result, most Members who spoke on the article actually defended their amendments in advance! The proposed rationalization is therefore welcome; She'll save us time. If there is an important dimension in the work we are doing, it is the defence of the amendments. Let us keep time to defend our amendments rather than dwell on the articles – I am aware that I am doing the opposite of what I am advocating at the moment; I admit it, but we finally have a little more time than we expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u337	Don't believe this: you have 12 seconds left!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u338	I repeat, the essence of our work is to defend the amendments. It is their discussion that often moves things forward. It is on them that we must focus our work. It seems to me, therefore, that limiting speeches to one speaker per group and article is a good solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u339	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u340	The choice we make in this motion for a resolution is to encourage the expression of a clear word from the political groups on the texts and the articles. Beyond the very relevant arguments you have put forward, Mr Balanant, concerning the fluidity of our debates, we must comply with a requirement of legibility for our citizens. They will know exactly what the political groups in this House think about each article. We will therefore gain in fluidity and readability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u341	The amendments tabled on the article are not defended, with the exception of No 869 by the rapporteur, who is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u342	Amendments to the Additional Article after Article 25 shall not be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u343	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u344	This article is in line with article 24. Its purpose is to improve the control of the admissibility of amendments, by applying Article 45 of the Constitution, according to which "any amendment is admissible at first reading, provided that it has a link, even indirectly, with the text". In our assembly, this provision is interpreted rather extensively, which often leads the Constitutional Council to censor riders. It must therefore strengthen its control over parliamentary initiatives. This Article enshrines the competence of the committee seised on the merits to decide on the admissibility of the amendments tabled in committee. This reform desired by the majority seems to me to be positive; I hope that it will lead to an improvement in the quality of legislative work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u345	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 799.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u346	The purpose of this amendment is to allow for the addition of co-signatories to an amendment beyond the deadline for submission. One can already withdraw its signature until the beginning of the examination of the text; It would therefore be logical to allow an amendment to be co-signed until the start of the examination of the text. This is a very simple measure, which the Senate has adopted. I therefore believe that this amendment could be easily accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u348	I am not in favour of this amendment for a very practical reason. In fact, co-signing an amendment is the same as filing one. However, an amendment tabled on an individual basis and an amendment tabled by 140 persons are not treated in the same way. I think it is better to guarantee the same deadline for everyone under the same conditions than to have fluctuations in the number of signatories. As far as withdrawal is concerned, it's a little different. The meaning isn't the same. If we find that we agreed to sign a little quickly, while we no longer agree with the amendment, it may be good to be able to withdraw its signature, while the arrival of 100 new signatories in the course of the legislative procedure would add only confusion. Moreover, I do not really see the interest of this provision: we would only gain a few days. In any event, I assure you that when you are a rapporteur, it is important to be able to freeze the status of the amendments, with the number of signatories, their partisan affiliation and their relative weight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u349	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u350	What about me?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u351	[[Smile]] I am applying the Rules of Procedure, Mr Balanant: only one speaker per amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u352	If one can understand the rapporteur's arguments when one takes a position on his point of view, this amendment still has an advantage. Indeed, if Members are to table identical amendments, it is not only to have an amendment in their name, which is important, but also not to have to coordinate with their colleagues. If the co-signature of the amendments were facilitated, it would reduce the number of identical amendments, since, since an amendment would be of interest to colleagues, it would be possible to arrange for them to co-sign it. This mechanism works well in the Senate. Another advantage: if you table an amendment, but because of organizational problems – which happens frequently – you cannot defend it, it would allow you to have a colleague to do so in your place. This provision would fluidize the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u353	Absolutely! That's a very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u354	Since the other amendments to Article 26 are not defended, I put it to the vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u355	You are going so fast that you forgot to call my amendment No 697, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u356	[[Smile]] But Amendment No 697 was being defended, wasn't it, Mr Balanant?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u357	[[Smile]] He was – you see I'm doing everything I can to help you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u358	Amendments to the additional article to Article 26 are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u359	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u360	This article clarifies the rules for speaking on amendments. The aim is to confirm, by means of a more precise wording of article 100, the practice whereby, on each amendment, after the author, the rapporteur and the Government, two speakers are heard, at least one of whom is of the opposite opinion. In this way, the gap between what is known in England as strict law and the custom observed in our house will be removed. That is to be welcomed. The presiding officer will naturally retain the ability to give the floor to a larger number of speakers whenever he or she deems it necessary to inform the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u361	Amendments Nos 871 and 873 as corrected by the rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, are to be coordinated. The other amendments to the article are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u362	Amendments to the additional article to Article 27 are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u363	Amendment No 874 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u364	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u365	Article 28 is essential for this reform of the regulation. It aims to establish a procedure of legislation in committee, similar in some respects to what exists in the Senate and in Italy. The decision to initiate this procedure would be taken by the Conference of Presidents. In this context, the right of amendment of the Government and the deputies would be exercised only at the stage of examination in committee, while the public meeting would be limited to explanations of vote and to voting on the provisions examined in committee. Again, the approach taken by the President and the majority is to streamline the debates by concentrating the debates in session on texts with strong political resonance. The traditional redundancy with the work of the committees will no longer be necessary. This is a good thing for the clarity of our debates. This reform is rather balanced, as a veto right is recognized for the benefit of opposition groups. This right of veto may be exercised at two stages of the procedure: within 24 hours of the decision of the Conference of Presidents and after the adoption of the text by the committee on the merits. I think this innovation is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u366	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u367	The nine deletion amendments tabled on this Article are not defended. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 700.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u368	We are looking at a provision that will allow us to move faster on some texts, by quickly legislating in committee. We experienced it in our group's last parliamentary niche and this proved to be extremely effective. If we see, this afternoon, that we can discuss and adopt texts extremely quickly in the Chamber, we know that, normally, it is a little slower, even though there can be consensus on some texts. So this is a very good idea. The amendment I am proposing seeks to ensure that this procedure can be used on the initiative of one tenth of the Members of the House. This would allow for the rapid adoption of certain consensual or technical bills in committee. This would improve the lives of our fellow citizens, without having to go through the long procedure that we usually follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u369	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u370	I shall be short: a group already has the opportunity to oppose the use of this procedure at the beginning and, if the result does not suit it, at the end of it. You are proposing a third remedy, which would be open to one tenth of the Members. We already have the belt and the straps, let's not add the parachute! Pretty bad opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u371	What I am proposing is not that, Mr rapporteur, it is, on the contrary, to offer the possibility for one tenth of Members to request the application of the new procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u372	That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u373	For the sake of the matter, unfavorable opinion, without hesitation: it is a prerogative of the Conference of Presidents!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u374	Since the other amendments to the article are not defended, I put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u375	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u376	The provision provided for in article 29 seems to me to be entirely relevant. When considering a text at second reading or final reading, it has already been the subject of lengthy debate. The Assembly has, therefore, generally been sufficiently enlightened. That is why there is no difficulty in reducing the speaking time for a motion to ten and then five minutes. This article is common sense and will streamline and streamline our exchanges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u377	Since the three amendments to delete Article 29 are not defended, I put it directly to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u378	Five of the six amendments to the Additional Article after Article 29 are not defended. Amendment No 845 corrected by Mrs Sylvia Pinel is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u379	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u380	One of the objectives of this reform is to better integrate opposition groups and minority groups into all bodies and bodies in our home. That is to be welcomed. In this regard, article 30 is particularly appropriate, since it reviews the arrangements for the distribution of posts within the Joint Joint Committees. The aim is to ensure that each group has at least one seat of the holder or alternate, which is not always the case at present. This progress is welcome, but we could go further without disrupting the functioning of the National Assembly. That is why I propose, in my personal capacity, that the allocation of committee presidencies should take place in proportion to the proportion of the groups. This is a very long-standing practice in the Federal Diet of Germany. This type of measure has the merit of giving visibility and even good repute to Parliament's internal pluralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u381	As the four amendments to delete this article are not defended, I put it directly to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u382	The amendments to the Additional Rule after Rule 30a, Nos 875, 885 and 886 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, are to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u383	The five amendments to delete this article are not defended. Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor in support of Amendment No 806.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u384	I withdraw this co-ordination amendment concerning the length of time for tabling motions, and draw your attention to the fact that Amendments Nos 795 and 805, which you did not call, Mr President, are also withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u385	I called them because they were chaining up with the one you just introduced, Mrs. Jacquier-Laforge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u386	No, these two amendments concerned Article 29; But we'll meet there, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u387	All right. It will therefore be taken into account that Amendments Nos 795 and 805 have previously been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u388	The four amendments to delete this article are not defended. Amendment No 876 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u389	The amendment to the Additional Rule after Rule 30c, No 877 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u390	The two amendments to delete this article are not defended. Amendment No 878 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u391	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u392	I would like to speak on Article 31, because it concerns a subject, non-attached persons, which is of interest to me. Although I now belong to a group, I have had an experience as an unregistered Member of Parliament. This article reviews the general scheme of Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure in order to guarantee a minimum time of five minutes for deputies not included in the debates following a statement by the Government under Article 50-1 of the Constitution, i.e. a statement of general policy or a statement on its programme, or on a motion of censure. This is a small revolution. Not so long ago, as I recalled, I was not registered. As such, I have been able to experience all the restrictions on speaking time. Thus, in the context of the scheduled legislative time, this form of guillotine for the parliamentary debate, the way of the point of order becomes far too quickly the only way to express itself. Once their speaking time has been exhausted, it is impossible for non-registered Members to defend their amendments. So this is a delicate situation. The present reform is positive, but it would be even more positive if it looked in depth at the fate of non-registrants. I know you're sensitive, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u393	[[Smile]] That's why you took care to register in a group, Mr. El Guerrab... Amendment No 883 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u394	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u395	Article 32 reviews the overall economy of questions to the Government, established in 1974 according to the will of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing. This is certainly not the first reform, but it is positive: instead of two weekly meetings, the National Assembly will only question the executive once a week, and the session will be a little longer. The opposition groups will have half of the questions, which is a step forward, because the opposition exercises the bulk of public control, while the majority performs more informal control, according to the formula of Professor Armel Le Divellec. In addition, the implementation of a right of reply within the time limit of two minutes will enable the exchanges to be boosted. As a result, this exercise will be a little less formal and more useful for monitoring the Government's action, according to the mandate assigned to Parliament by article 24 of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u396	The committee accepted the three identical amendments No 192 by Mr Minot, 450 by Mr Little and 650 by Mrs Obono. [[Smile]] The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support these amendments: what is more ecumenical than doing so in the absence of their authors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u397	In committee, we decided to consolidate the two question sessions with the Government in one. The question, therefore, was whether we should amend our Rules of Procedure to that effect, which would prevent us from returning to two sittings if necessary. Many opposition groups had asked that this additional lock be avoided. They are not here to defend their position today, but I am doing so on their behalf, to say that we should keep this flexibility in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u398	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to support Amendment No. 227.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u399	I will withdraw this amendment, like others that I have tabled on later articles, but I want to draw the attention of our House to several points. First of all, I would not want to paraphrase a formula that is dear to you, Mr President, that we should respond to the ingratitudes with bitterness. I would therefore like to highlight the progress made by Articles 32, 34 and 35: all give new rights to the opposition, whether it concerns questions to the Government – with this article – or the positions of rapporteur for a commission of inquiry or a fact-finding mission. Let us not forget what the majority has agreed to carry out this reform. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I regret that no one in the opposition is here to hear it, because this is an effort by the majority to ensure the success of the text. In order not to put this success in jeopardy, I withdraw all the amendments I tabled on the subjects I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u400	[[Smile]] Your elegance is a virtue in our world of bullies, Mr. Houlié...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u401	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 486.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u402	We will therefore allow opposition groups to ask more questions to the Government, in this case "at least" half of them, according to the text. If we take things from the mathematical side, this "at least" does not set any limit: it can be 50% of the questions, or 60, 70, 80, 90%, or even 100%! The members of the majority are like the others. They are therefore just as legitimate as those of the opposition to ask questions to the Government, perhaps in fewer numbers – that is the sense of the rebalancing envisaged here, and I welcome it – but it seems to me useful that a third of the questions be reserved for them. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u403	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u404	The subject is similar to that raised by Mr. Houlié, whose observations were very accurate. About one third of the articles in this motion for a resolution enshrine new rights for opposition groups and non-attached Members. A third of the articles! Of course, we maintain the right balance that we have always defended by granting these new rights to the opposition. This, Mr. Blanchet, is the example you have taken. Amendment No 270, which we are about to discuss, would de facto remove a number of questions from the opposition groups. So I'm unfavorable. As for Amendment No 486, the 30% threshold does not seem relevant to me: it is not a question of guaranteeing the rights of the majority here, but it is not our main concern, even if we are all very attached to it. The Conference of Presidents was sovereign in that regard and would therefore decide on the number and allocation of issues to the Government. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u405	As President Mignola observed earlier, we are in a paradoxical situation of giving new rights to opposition groups despite them, since they are not there to support them. Do you withdraw your amendment, Mr. Blanchet?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u406	I will go in the positive direction of the work done to give the opposition colleagues more rights, hoping that they will follow our debates in front of a screen. We must also be concerned to respect the deputies of the majority, and to assign them a number of questions to the Government: they do not ask "boats" questions, as is sometimes understood, but questions relating, for example, to their constituencies. I repeat, we are just as legitimate as the members of the opposition. In any event, I withdraw my amendment, in order to move forward with the work that has been done for many months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u407	President Mignola and President Le Gendre will, of course, be vigilant in the Conference of Presidents on the point you have raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u408	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 270.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u409	Mr Isaac-Sibille wished, through this amendment, to draw the Assembly's attention to the allocation of issues to the Government to minority groups. I have taken note of the comments made by the rapporteur. However, if we are to properly strengthen the rights of the opposition, we will also have to ensure a fair distribution of issues within the Government. In any event, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u410	As the other amendments to Rule 32 are not defended, I shall put the latter to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u411	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor in support of Amendment No 796, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u412	This appeal amendment tends to include in the Rules of Procedure the number of questions asked at the weekly sitting – which would ultimately remain biweekly, if I understood correctly – of questions to the Government. The number of questions to the Government would be limited to twenty – against fifteen today – so that each group would have the freedom to speak. [[Mr. Christophe Blanchet and Mr. Erwan Balanant applaud]] Furthermore, it does not seem reasonable to us to limit the speaking time of the majority excessively: as my colleague Blanchet has just said, every Member, regardless of the bench on which he sits, must be able to speak throughout his term of office.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u413	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u414	Unfavorable. Setting the number of questions falls within the competence of the Conference of Presidents; the regulation is not the right normative level to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u415	None of the other amendments to the additional article after Rule 32 is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u416	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u417	Through this innovative article, commissions of inquiry will necessarily include an unregistered Member of Parliament. Having myself been among the non-attached, as I recalled, I can only rejoice: it values the pluralism internal to the National Assembly, and it is in itself a progress. However, it would be good to go even further. This could be done by assigning committee chairs to non-registrants, the report to be entrusted to a member of the group who has had the initiative of the investigation. Max Weber's legacy commits us to recognize such prerogatives as a minority right. In this spirit, a drawing right could be granted each year to about ten non-registrants who would be even more closely associated with parliamentary oversight activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u418	As the amendments to Rule 33 are not defended, I shall put it directly to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u419	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u420	Since the reform of the Regulation adopted in 2014, it is no longer possible to empty the right to draw opposition groups in the field of investigation. This is of course a very good thing – we remember that when Nicolas Sarkozy was President of the Republic, the majority had refused a commission of inquiry into the polls he had ordered. While this progress should therefore be welcomed, much progress remained to be made. In fact, today the report is not usually entrusted to a member of the group who had the initiative of the inquiry, but remains the prerogative of the majority, with the opposition or minority group responsible for the investigation benefiting only from the chairmanship of the committee of inquiry. Article 34 is therefore very satisfactory. It will now be up to the opposition or minority group to prepare the report on the investigation it has requested. However, the role of rapporteur is essential: it is the centrepiece of the investigation. Parliamentary control will therefore be strengthened by this reform, which I urge all of you to support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u421	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u422	I would like to stress the democratic progress that Article 34 allows. Our colleague El Guerrab has already pointed out this, but I would like our oppositions, unfortunately absent, to be well aware that, by giving them the opportunity to draw up the report of the committees of inquiry whose initiative they have taken, we are making real progress in parliamentary scrutiny. I would like to thank you, Mr President, for it is to you that we owe this substantial change in the functioning of our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u423	Amendment No 881 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u424	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u425	Article 35 aims to extend the scope of the information missions established by the Standing Committees to follow up on orders made pursuant to article 38 of the Constitution and to better involve non-registered deputies, as well as opposition or minority groups, in the fact-finding missions established by the Conference of Presidents. It is essential to involve the non-attached people more closely in this work: as we have already said, they are not sub-deputies, and their sometimes dissonant voice must be heard in this forum which we are together and which Parliament represents. That is why I particularly support this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u426	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to support Amendment No. 803.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u427	It tends to delete paragraph 2 – we have discussed it in committee, Mr rapporteur. Article 38 of the Constitution provides that the Government may apply to the Parliament for authorization to take, for a limited period of time, measures normally within the scope of the law. The provision contained in paragraph 2 disregards the very spirit of the mechanism of this article of the Constitution, which is primarily aimed at enabling legislation to be enacted as soon as possible. Parliament may exercise its right of amendment when considering the draft authorization to legislate by order and reject the proposed ratification thereof; The additional arrangements proposed to us do not seem necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u428	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u429	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Jacquier-Laforge, it is with great pleasure that, convinced by your arguments, I give a very favourable opinion to your amendment, which very clearly sets out a very relevant argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u430	[[Applause]] Unanimous! Congratulations! Amendment No 882 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is drafting. The other amendments tabled on the article are not defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u431	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 278 on the additional Rule after Rule 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u432	The aim is to enable the standing committees to hear annually, in the context of the submission of the report on the implementation of a law falling within their competence, the ministers responsible for the implementation of the laws of which they have had to know, to inform them of the status of the implementation of those laws and to present them with the published implementing documents. Indeed, while the drafting of the law may be the result of a lengthy procedure, its implementation is sometimes slowed down for several months or even years by the non-publication of regulatory enforcement measures. This would allow parliamentarians to define with the minister hearing the timetable for the publication of decrees. It would also be an opportunity for the Minister to indicate any difficulties that may require further intervention by the legislator. This regular report to Parliament would also encourage the Government to speed up the implementation of the regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u433	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u434	As for substance, this would be a very good practice, quite desirable; But this provision has no place in the Rules of Procedure. We have always had as a principle the freedom of committees. In the Rules of Procedure, I repeat, we are dealing with the governance of committees, not their internal organization. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u435	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u436	Article 36 makes the appointment of an implementing co-rapporteur mandatory upon referral to a standing committee of a draft or a draft law. The tasks of monitoring law enforcement are particularly important: they provide parliamentarians with the information necessary to monitor government action and are essential to improving the quality of legislative work and its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u437	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No. 910.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u438	[[Smile]] It honours a commitment I had made to Mrs Untermaier – remember, it was at the time she was there... Our colleague has rightly identified a shadow zone: the fact that special committees do not have implementing rapporteurs. I promised him I'd fix it; Of which act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u439	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u440	The promises kept are rare enough to deserve to be greeted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u441	Several of the amendments to the Additional Article after Article 36 are not defended. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 791.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u442	It came from a proposal which, in committee, had attracted the support of colleagues on all the benches, but which we have revised to take account of the remarks and reticences of some, as well as of the rapporteur, and to arrive at a common text which would strengthen the powers of evaluation of Members. Our proposal is based on a double observation. First, the French are asking us to account; they don't think things are moving fast enough; Jacline Muraud asks us what we do with the "money." Perhaps we can take the opportunity of this reform of the Rules of Procedure to reaffirm the prerogative of Members to assess up to the last kilometre, that is to say, in our constituencies. The second observation, which is personal to me but which I know is shared by many of you, is that several salutary measures adopted in recent years, such as the end of the cumulation of mandates and the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, have tended to erode our territorial anchor and affect our relationship with local elected representatives as well as with the deconcentrated administration of the State. Based on this observation, what should be done? Restore the reservation of parliamentary power or the cumulation of mandates? For our part, we believe that there is another solution: to develop our capacity to assess laws in our territories, in our electoral districts. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to enshrine in the Rules of Procedure a new option for Members: to monitor the proper application of the laws in their constituency. Let us take a simple example: suppose that a member of the committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u443	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u444	I am taking a little more time now, which will allow me to be shorter when my other amendments with a similar object are called.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u445	Of course, but the Rules of Procedure are the Rules of Procedure: they provide for two minutes to defend an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u446	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u447	They're way out of date...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u448	If a member of the Social Affairs Committee wished to assess, in his constituency, the effects of the law on the freedom to choose his professional future, he could, for one day, audit the representatives of companies, trade unions, apprentice training centres – CFA –, the regional management of companies, of competition, of consumption, of work and of employment – DIRECCTE – or send a questionnaire to the companies in his constituency and, to strip and analyse them, benefit from the assistance of an administrator of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u449	Well...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u450	This amendment does not imply regulatory or legislative developments since no additional rights would be granted to the Member. Its application would not call into question the action of the other evaluation bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u451	Dear colleague, we must conclude, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u452	It is not a question of exhausting the Assembly's resources either. Indeed, it provides that the Conference of Presidents will be given full discretion to decide, each year, on the drawing rights which will be allocated to the groups in order to entrust these tasks to the deputies who so wish. [[Mr. M的jid El Guerrab and Mr. Patrick Mignola applaud]] This amendment pursues an objective to which we can all be sensitive: to reaffirm by assessing our territorial anchor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u453	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u454	I am replying to all your amendments, Mr Barrot, which make up a variation on the same subject. Everyone is convinced, and your work has greatly contributed to it, that what you call "the evaluation at the last kilometer", which aims to check whether the laws that we vote in Paris are properly applied in our constituencies, is a real question which, in my view, reflects an evolution of our role. My opinion is the same as in committee; It has even become stronger over the weeks and as a result of the many exchanges we have had. There are many factors that lead me to believe that while everyone agrees on the intention, there is no consensus on the mechanism to be adopted. Even within the LaREM Group, we have had debates about whether only one Member should be given this task or two Members, one of the majority and the other of the opposition, as is the case with the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee; debate also on whether the assessment should be carried out in the constituency of the Member responsible for monitoring the application of the law, or not; or the magnitude of the resources mobilized – you mention in one of your summary presentations one day-administrator for a mission, which I think is too little. We propose, on the basis of a recommendation from the President, to launch a real experiment, with which, of course, you would be associated, on the evaluation at the last kilometer,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u455	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u456	... a solid experiment that answers the questions asked and leads to a consensus on the device before burning it into the marble. For it is not the same thing to include in the Rules of Procedure that this task of control is entrusted to only one Member of Parliament and that he will fill it in his constituency or that it will be entrusted to two Members, on the perimeter of the region or the department. Once again, believe that we are not kicking in touch. The reform you are calling for is necessary. I would add, moreover, that the current regulation does not prevent such an assessment from being carried out in different forms. The commitment made by President Ferrand is to launch an experiment, which will be followed at the highest level to see what sufficiently consensual mechanism can be defined and, if necessary, engraved in the marble of the regulation, even if it does not seem useful to me. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion to your amendment and, in advance, to those you will subsequently defend on the same issue. That will not surprise you, as we have already discussed it at length. The experiment that we propose will be rich in teachings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u457	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u458	Thank you for your answer, rapporteur. You say that there is no consensus on my proposal but Members of the LR, SOC, UDI-Agir, LT, MODEM and LaREM groups have tabled and signed amendments along the same lines. Is this not the embryo of a consensus that would strengthen the reform of the regulation? In addition, giving the Member this option, the Conference of Presidents setting the number of drawing rights between groups, obviously does not imply that resources should be taken from other missions. It is true that the current regulation does not prevent the launching of such a mission. If I make the seat of President Ferrand, perhaps he will consent to confide in me or at least to detach an administrator for a day to accompany me. I doubt, however, that it is possible, unless I insist, that the regulation explicitly provides for this. We have, on several occasions, sought the assistance of the administrators, in vain, since the Conference of Presidents does not allow them to take action. Your idea of experimentation therefore seems to me to be very good, and that is why we have recast this amendment so that it is the Conference of Presidents which sovereignly determines the number of drawing rights and their distribution among the groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u459	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 500, 725, 788 and 151, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 500, 725 and 788 are identical. Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 500.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u460	Jean-Noël Barrot explained things very well. It would really be a proof of collective intelligence to make sure that we can see if law enforcement is going the same way across the country and at the same time – that's not always the case. Everyone who has been mayor, everyone who has been head of local executive bodies, knows well that, for example, the control of legality is not carried out in the same way within the same department. They also know that certain devices voted in Paris unfortunately enter the territories with difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u461	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u462	I would like to draw your attention, Mr rapporteur, to the unprecedented social crisis that broke out six months ago, born of a sense of abandonment, about the gap that we are seeing between the decisions we are taking and their application on the ground. However, we can be supported by the Assembly's very high-quality services. They have staff of great skill, able to check whether or not what we decide here is being applied in the field. That would be a guarantee of democracy and efficiency. And that's what the French expect. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and MODEM groups]] I shall therefore not change a single word to the intervention of Jean-Noël Barrot, who also pointed out that this arrangement was conceived by Members from all the benches. Of course, an experiment goes in the right direction, but the mechanics are not so complicated to set up; We know how to do this because we are dealing with much more complex devices in our special reports. Frankly, since we are in the process of amending the regulation, let us have a good assessment tool on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u463	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u464	Really, I sometimes have the wrong role! On the substance, we agree on the importance of experimentation. We discussed at length with the Public Policy Review and Control Committee: Under the current regulation, we can do a lot of things that we don't do. However, I do not agree with the idea that they should be included in the Rules of Procedure in order to oblige us to do so. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] So I repeat, the idea you're defending is good, let's experiment with it – it's the best approach. But let us not try to make binding decisions that we do not take when we can. This is not a good way to proceed. Let's do it, let's do it! What are we waiting for? We do not need to engrave it in the marble of the regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u465	I call Mr M'jid El Guerrab to support Amendment No. 725.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u466	We must be able to check how our decisions run and infuse on the ground. When we return to our constituencies, we do not necessarily see the effects of what we decide in Paris, where we are far from everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u467	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot's identical amendment No 788 is being defended. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u468	I call on our colleagues to reflect once again on this simple idea of going to the field to monitor the application of a law which is considered in substance by the committee of which we are a member. This is not very complicated, as Philippe Vigier pointed out. Experimenting, why not? But I do not see very well what this means in practice. On the other hand, I fully understand what a decision by the Conference of Presidents would be about drawing rights. We are all very busy and the regulation is intended to organize our activities. Therefore, giving a small place to those who would like to engage in these assessment activities in their ridings seems to me to be beneficial. And the experiment you are planning is entirely compatible with the content of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u469	I have before me two amendments, Nos 789 and 154, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 789.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u470	In the absence of an answer, I ask again what an experiment is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u471	Amendment No 154 by Mr Jean-François Eliaou is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u472	It is a question of experimenting with what the Rules of Procedure already allow, of drawing lessons from them and, at the level of the Conference of Presidents, of examining to what extent it can be generalised. Nor should we forget the implications in terms of allocation of resources. The resources of the commissions are not unlimited. One of the amendments provides for a drawing right proportional to the size of the groups. I invite you to think twice: if you give one to the GDR group, you will have to give twenty to the LaREM group! The drawing right cannot be proportional. It is therefore necessary to assess the impact of resources: we manage constant, constrained budgets. Again, I have the wrong role and I have to tell you no. We have to go through experimentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u473	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u474	I'm sure one day, Jean-Noel Barrot...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u475	Will have his plaque in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u476	...will be able to convince us, both of us, to engrave in the marble what must be. It is necessary to ensure the quality of our work as legislators, to have our fellow citizens recognize it and to restore the link with them. In order to carry out the experiment – and I know the rapporteur who is sensitive to this question – I think it is essential to define a timetable and to make provision for resources. This is our responsibility as elected representatives of the majority, and we could be joined, on this subject, by the elected representatives of the opposition. I also observe, as chairman of the group, that our national assembly does not have sufficient resources. It is not very popular to say that while women and men are still demonstrating on roundabouts. But no association, no public community, no business can consider not having any additional resources for a decade. We must therefore assume, both of us, that democracy has no price but that it has a cost. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] I wanted to put in perspective Mr Barrot's proposal and the fact that we can one day explain to the Government that Parliament needs more resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u477	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 790.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u478	I return to the burden by taking advantage of the fact that our debates are significantly lightened. I regret that, moreover, because if our opposition colleagues were present, they would surely have tried to convince those who are not yet convinced of the interest and flexibility of the new option proposed by this amendment. I really believe that we will have to achieve this, without which the pressure that will be put on us will be too great, and we will end up, one day or the other, to reaffirm our territorial anchor if we want to retain it, by going back to those salutary measures that we have adopted, namely the abolition of the parliamentary reserve and the end of cumulation. We propose to strengthen the Member's assessment faculties on the ground in his municipality and in his constituency, in order to reaffirm his territorial anchor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u479	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u480	Unfavorable opinion, with the same arguments as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u481	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u482	What can we fear from Mr Barrot's amendment? At worst, it offers the opportunity to nominate colleagues – one member per group – to go to their constituency to see if what we voted for works or not. We're not risking anything! Mr rapporteur, you are a rather open man; Why refuse this amendment? It does not eat bread, it is only a possibility. The chairmen of the committees all belong to the majority, except the chairman of the Finance Committee: the majority has nothing to fear, it holds almost all the levers. In the Committee on Finance, we can act through the special rapporteurs. It's already possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u483	In any case, the regulation does not prohibit anything in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u484	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u485	Article 37 provides that one of the monitoring weeks shall be devoted, as a matter of priority, to the monitoring of the implementation of financial laws, with the inclusion in the agenda of motions for resolutions on the implementation of financial laws. It is in line with the spring of the evaluation, a procedure currently under way in committee that strengthens the prerogatives of parliamentarians to monitor and evaluate by allowing them to draw the conclusions of a particular public policy. The original finance law is one of the most important texts passed each year by the National Assembly. Reviewing its implementation in the spring of the evaluation will allow us to save time and be more effective in reviewing the budget as of September.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u486	Amendment No 772 by Mr Olivier Véran is taken up by the committee. The rapporteur has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u487	Mr. Olivier Véran's idea seems to us good. Just as we have a spring evaluation for the original finance bill, it seems to us that the financial envelopes at stake require an equivalent for the social security funding bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u488	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u489	Article 38 deals with a subject which, I know, is dear to my colleague Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe. The EQF – Public Policy Review and Control Committee – established in 2009 is responsible for carrying out evaluation work on public policies beyond the scope of a single standing committee. In order to strengthen its supervisory role, Rule 38 provides that the first of the Vice-Chairmen of the Committee shall be from an opposition group, and that the composition of its bureau shall reproduce the political configuration of the Assembly. I think all this is in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u490	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u491	Section 38 provides an opportunity to talk about the Evaluation and Monitoring Committee, which is unfortunately little known to most of you, despite its establishment in 2009. We are all concerned about legislating, but it seems to me important to remember that this is not the only task we have to carry out. The power to legislate is primarily that of the Government. Let me share with you an ancient quote, but still relevant. According to Guy Carcassonne and Marc Guillaume, in their book The Constitution, "the parliamentarians, if they are not more motivated by evaluation than they were in the past, are too willing to give up these tasks to fall back into those who have their preference: to make laws rather than to wonder whether they are useful, to adopt them rather than think them, then to desolate themselves from their inefficiency without seeking their causes, and then to start over as before." The Evaluation and Monitoring Committee is a tool made available to the National Assembly to support this assessment and monitoring mission. We will have the opportunity to come back to this by examining the following amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u492	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 273.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u493	The motion for a resolution seeks to amend the Rules of Procedure of our House in order to strengthen, through some of its provisions, the rights of opposition groups. However, this overarching objective should not be pursued by impoverishing the rights of minority groups. We propose that the first and second vice-presidents of the assessment and oversight committee belong to one opposition group, the other to a minority group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u494	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u495	We have already heard that the first Vice-President of the CEC would be a member of the opposition. I am not in favour of increasing the requirement for Vice-Presidents. We must not introduce too much rigidity. I understand your objective, but I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u496	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 38. Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor to support Amendment No. 780.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u497	My colleagues have reiterated the value of the evaluation and monitoring committee and its work. Since the beginning of the legislature, the CEC has published reports on the evaluation of the fight against financial crime, on the organisation of the evaluation function of the education system, on the management of autism, on the action of the State in the exercise of its sovereign missions in Seine-Saint-Denis, on the evaluation of the mechanisms for the evaluation of public policies, and on the evaluation of the regulation of gambling. This latest work has also fed our reflections on the privatization of La Française des jeux. The topics of these reports are chosen through consultation, but unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to discuss our work programme within the CEC office. The amendment seeks to ensure that this programme is adopted annually by the bureau, which will therefore have to meet regularly to take decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u498	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u499	If you will allow me, Mr President, I will respond broadly to all the amendments relating to the EQF, which Mrs Givernet and Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, who are members of the EQF, support. It is clear from our lengthy discussions that many questions relating to the EQF will not be answered in the Rules of Procedure, but fall within the scope of the implementation of what is possible today and which needs to be done. After discussing with the Speaker of our Assembly, we proposed that the Bureau of the EQF – it may even be a plenary meeting of the committee – should meet very soon to discuss a three-point agenda. The first step would be to prepare a comprehensive report that would provide a 360-degree vision of what is being done to the Assembly in terms of evaluation. We were surprised to see that no one really controlled the perimeter covered by our work. There is a real wealth of evaluation in the Assembly, but things are often decorated, and the whole may not always be very coherent. The EAC could therefore produce a clear report on the Assembly's annual evaluation activity as a whole. Based on this analysis, the evaluation committee could then be a proposal force to feed into the monitoring weeks. This role would be all the more relevant in view of the fact that it could have previously analysed all the existing arrangements. Finally, it does not seem uninteresting to me, Mr Barrot, that the follow-up of the experiment should also be carried out in conjunction with the CEC. This is the kind of bridge that needs to be implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u500	Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u501	As you understand, my unfavorable opinion is not about the substance of the amendments. Rather, it is intended to promote the proposal drawn up with President Ferrand, which I have just presented to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u502	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u503	I will defend Amendment No 787 calling for the establishment of a parliamentary evaluation agency. We have been discussing this subject since last year. The parliaments of the major democracies comparable to France have developed such a tool. Our country is late, and the Assembly would be happy to make up for this delay. I hear the rapporteur's proposal on the EQF. Those who, like me, are passionate about evaluating public policies know that the meeting referred to has already taken place on March 14, in the Lamartine Hall, at the invitation of President Richard Ferrand. It was a very nice meeting attended not only by the CEC, but also by other institutions that practice evaluation, such as the Court of Auditors, the Senate, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council... It would therefore not be a matter of holding a first meeting, but of following up on what was inaugurated on 14 March. There is also a need to discuss the follow-up to the evaluation. Again, those who are familiar with the evaluation know that the CEC is not intended to be interested in matters that fall within the scope of a single commission. After the constitutional review in 2008, the Constitutional Council even declared that it would be unconstitutional to do so: the CEC can only deal with cross-cutting issues. However, the amendment that we had previously tabled – but I will not relaunch the debate – tended to allow a Member from the committee who had examined it on its merits to monitor the implementation of a law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u504	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u505	Mr rapporteur, you said that the EQF could decide on a number of points at a plenary meeting, but you did not answer me clearly about the role and responsibility of the bureau in its choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u506	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 784.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u507	He spoke of a subject which the rapporteur had not mentioned. I would like to thank him for his proposals, because it is true that exchanges have taken place between us, which allow us to consider reinvesting the evaluation and monitoring committee whose action cannot be held to be negligible – it is enough to take up the list of cross-cutting issues he has addressed. The amendment is intended to enable the committee to obtain a response from the Government on its recommendations. In fact, they are rarely answered, even if they are expected within three months, according to the regulation. The CEC could therefore request a standing committee in relation to the matter under discussion, in order to hold a hearing of a member of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u508	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u509	It is quite possible to do so today, and I invite you to do so. There is no need to reform the regulation. I express an unfavorable opinion, consistent with what I explained a moment ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u510	[[At nineteen forty-five, Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u511	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u512	Having heard the rapporteur, I withdraw the amendment. On the other hand, I insist that any request from the CEC should be accepted with goodwill and consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u513	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor to support Amendment No. 781.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u514	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the implementation of the follow-up reports. Rule 146(3) of the Rules of Procedure, as currently drafted, provides for the automatic launch of these reports six months after the publication of the initial report. It is appropriate to provide for a period of six months to 24 months to provide more flexibility, allowing the Monitoring Committee to decide on the most appropriate time for its own report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u515	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u516	I think we both had a bad reading of the Rules of Procedure in this case. It shall not prevent the Monitoring Committee from submitting its report beyond six months. There is no binding deadline, the services have confirmed it to me. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u517	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u518	There must be a lack of understanding of the deadline. For example, within six months of the report on autism, an automatic request for a follow-up report did not allow us to judge whether it was appropriate in view of the timing and the context of current political events. For me, it is a malfunction, because this automaticity divests the groups and the committee of the possibility of assessing the advisability of the follow-up report according to the political context and the current situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u519	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u520	I remember an example of an evaluation that would have been relevant after 12 months when it had been done after six months. However, our reading of the Rules of Procedure was a little bit quick. The current wording states that the follow-up report is submitted "after six months", which means that it can be submitted 12 months or 24 months later. There's nothing against it. I repeat that this analysis has been confirmed by experts in this field and that the amendment is completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u521	Mrs Givernet, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u522	I understand the rapporteur's point of view, but it is a question of whether the wording can be clarified with regard to the advisability of a group asking for a follow-up report, taking into account its right to draw. I would ask the rapporteur to clarify how the regulation provides that the group concerned may request the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u523	The rapporteur has replied to you, my dear colleague. This discussion is more a matter of organisation than of regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u524	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor to support Amendment No 779.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u525	The evaluation and oversight committee never meets formally to define the proposals it could make at the Conference of Presidents, so it never does in this body. The amendment proposes that the first vice-chairperson of the committee be able to attend the Conference of Presidents six weeks before the assessment and monitoring week, in order to present the committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u526	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u527	Since the President of the EQF is the President of the Assembly, he attends the Conference of Presidents. It is true that if the amendment proposing that the President of the Assembly not also be able to preside over the EQF had been adopted, the problem would have arisen. But he was removed. Your amendment is therefore more than satisfied – if possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u528	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor to support Amendment No. 778.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u529	In order to strengthen the EQF in its role as a "control tower" of the evaluation, and thus clarify the landscape of the evaluation of public policies, it is proposed that it prepare an annual report on the evaluation activities of the National Assembly, whether those of the Committee itself or those of the Standing Committees. Mr rapporteur, you have referred to the question, and a lasting solution is proposed here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u530	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u531	The proposed solution seems to me for the disproportionate blow, because the amendment proposes that the CEC also analyse the evaluation work "of the Senate, the Court of Auditors, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council and the inspection bodies" in order to arrive at a "state of the evaluation of public policies in France". It is otherwise above our forces, in any case disproportionate, even if the exercise would obviously be interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u532	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 783.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u533	I would like to regret the absence of opposition groups, because any assessment and control process is gaining in credit thanks to the critical eye of these groups. I would point out that in the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, we are working in a trans-partisan manner since the reports are always co-signed by a majority member and a member of the opposition. This is the very example of what collaborative work can be to ensure the quality of what we do. The purpose of this amendment was mentioned by the rapporteur, since it is proposed that the EQF prepare an annual report on all the evaluation and monitoring activities of the National Assembly. We can see that a lot of work is being done, that it is sometimes redundant because of the lack of coordination and visibility of these activities in our Assembly. I very much appreciate the rapporteur's proposal, but in order to ensure the sustainability of the committee's mandate, it would be preferable to include it in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u534	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u535	Unfavorable opinion, as I explained on the first additional article. The first item on the agenda will be the preparation of the report. Nothing prevents us from doing this today: let's do it. As President Ferrand has made a clear commitment on this point, we can be reassured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u536	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u537	I support this amendment. Today, 95% of the texts we are looking at are of government origin. It is therefore necessary to refocus the duties of parliamentarians on their function of monitoring and evaluating public policies, a function that Article 24 of the Constitution confers on Parliament. It must be a sacred mission for us. But if we legislate, we don't evaluate much. The amendment provides for an annual report on the monitoring and evaluation activities of our Assembly. With this, we could strengthen these missions, which would allow us to improve their quality but above all their effectiveness. I see here the link with Mr Barrot's previous amendments which have been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u538	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 785 and 787. I call Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe to support Amendment No. 785.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u539	Mr Barrot, having already set out the reasons, I shall withdraw it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u540	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 787.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u541	Jean-Noël Barrot brilliantly defended him earlier. I just want to remind you that we really need to move forward on this. We have the opportunity to do this here and I find it a pity that we are not even making a very small formal step forward. I hear the rapporteur saying that we are going to experiment with what already exists. I'm not sure it's really very ambitious. I am still counting on you, Mr rapporteur, as well as on the Conference of Presidents, to be a force for proposals and to move forward on real measures to evaluate our public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u542	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u543	Unfavorable opinion, but your group chairman here will be able to defend him at the bureau because, with this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, he will attend!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u544	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u545	The petition, this practice resulting from the grievances of the Ancien régime, very used during the French Revolution, is very little today: during the 14th legislature, only fifty-two petitions were examined; Under this Parliament, thirty-six have been tabled. In order to take into account the digital revolution and to enhance citizens' democracy, it is proposed to modernise the right to petition and to guarantee better consideration for those collecting a large number of signatures, by systematically putting on line petitions signed by more than 100,000 petitioners. I think this is a good signal to our fellow citizens, especially after the six months of social crisis that our country has just passed through.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u546	The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to support Amendment No. 887.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u547	It is a question of responding to a request from Mrs Paula Forteza, who has worked extensively on the digital dimension of the Assembly. The motion for a resolution did not provide for the possibility of increasing the number of signatures once the petition was tabled, a blocking factor that hindered the posting of petitions on the National Assembly website. The purpose of the redrafting of paragraph 6 was to remove that obstacle, since the bureau was of course responsible for organizing the conditions for its implementation. Let us give Caesar what is Caesar's: it is really Paula Forteza's attention to this subject that leads me to present this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u548	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u549	The Commission provided two clarifications on the conditions for the residence of petitioners: their geographical distribution in at least 30 departments was extended to the overseas communities, and the minimum distribution by department and by overseas community was referred to a decision of the Bureau. As a member of the French delegation from abroad, I would like them not to be forgotten: these three million French must also have the right to sign these petitions and to be, as such, recognised by our Rules of Procedure. I will defend an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u550	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u551	I, in turn, stress the democratic progress made by this motion for a resolution. Without reproducing the film of the last six months, it is a concrete response to one of the main demands of women and men who have demonstrated on several Saturdays.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u552	Amendment No 897 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u553	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 847.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u554	I will also defend in advance Amendments Nos 846, 848 and 849. We have seen clearly in the social crisis that we have just experienced how important it is to better involve our fellow citizens in the drafting of the law. As such, these amendments specify several criteria for the right to petition, including the thresholds that are required.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u555	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u556	In committee, we have discussed the issue of thresholds several times and finally decided to experiment with these thresholds of 100,000 and 500,000 petitioners, which are, it is true, quite low. As you know, the text proposes that once a petition has received more than 500,000 signatures, the Conference of Presidents will have to decide whether to put its subject on the agenda. However, petitions that have sometimes received fewer signatures already benefit from such processing. On the day when a petition of more than 500,000 signatories will have given rise to an exchange in the Conference of Presidents, that this exchange will have led to a debate in this Chamber, perhaps giving the idea of a parliamentary niche that will perhaps lead to the adoption of a law, citizens will see that their voice is fully taken into account in the Assembly, and this will be a great success! Keeping these thresholds increases our chances of such a scenario taking shape.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u557	[[At 20.00 p.m., Mr. Richard Ferrand replaced Ms. Carole Bureau-Bonnard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u558	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u559	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I withdraw all the amendments I tabled on the article, because I was convinced by the rapporteur's very relevant arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u560	[[Smile]] Veinard!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u561	Amendment No 888 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u562	Amendment No 901 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u563	I call Mr M'jid El Guerrab to support Amendment No. 533.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u564	This amendment, which is of particular interest to me, is in line with the majority's desire to "renew the right to petition before the House and make it a real open window on civil society", as the rapporteur explained. These innovations are positive, and it is entirely legitimate that the petitions referred to in the paragraph should be representative when they are signed by our fellow citizens "residents in at least thirty overseas departments or communities". It is important that this effort of representativeness also concerns the French who are established outside our country. The aim of the amendment is to fill this gap by inserting a reference to "three constituencies of the French abroad", or about one third of them. Thus, the voice of the French abroad will be taken into account. This will also be the first mention in the Assembly's Rules of Procedure of our compatriots established outside France. Mr rapporteur, if you can convince me that it is not relevant, I will withdraw this amendment. It seems to me, however, of common sense and I hope, therefore, that you will hear this appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u565	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u566	Mr President, we always hear the call from the Overseas! The proposal you are making is very interesting and could be adopted if all the conditions relating to petitions, including the location of petitioners, were not a decision of the office. It is therefore out of consistency that I give an opinion which is unfavourable to the amendment – but if that is the reason why I am obliged to do so, I am very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u567	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u568	Mr rapporteur, you have convinced me. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u569	Amendments Nos 889 and 898 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, are to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u570	Amendment No 890 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u571	I have before me amendments to the additional article, several of which are not defended. Amendment No 765 by Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u572	Amendment No 891 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u573	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u574	The article provides that a Member of Parliament who is on the public register of deportations shall be considered to be present in public session, so that he or she will not be considered absent and not be punished. It supplements Article 6 of the motion for a resolution. I am pleased that transparency is being strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u575	Amendments to the Additional Article after Article 41 shall not be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u576	Amendment No 911 by Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u577	Pursuant to Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee requests a second debate on Article 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u578	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u579	Yesterday, discussions focused on Article 8 and, in particular, on the organization of the general discussion. I would like to commend the rapporteur's efforts to find a compromise with the various groups in the House. The amendment is the expression of this compromise, since, in the same way as I tabled yesterday with our Freedom and Territory Group, we propose that the Conference of Presidents should organise the discussion of the texts on the agenda by allocating to each group, depending on the text, a speaking time of five or ten minutes. When the speaking time is ten minutes, the groups may designate two speakers. In addition, one MP who does not belong to any group will speak for a period of five minutes. This amendment of balance and compromise seems to me to be in line with the spirit of the discussions that the rapporteur, in connection with the President of the National Assembly, had yesterday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u580	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u581	The logic at work in this amendment is one of the elements contained in the compromise proposal which, yesterday, federated many of the groups before they finally chose not to follow this path. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LT groups. – Charles de Courson also applauds]] I am very much in favour of this as part of this compromise solution. I thank you for presenting this amendment, which is a satisfactory response to the debate we had yesterday in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u582	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u583	I would also like to thank our colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group who, with this amendment, show that when we discuss and listen to each other, we can make progress together. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This amendment is indeed the quintessence of the agreement proposed yesterday to all the groups and which, unfortunately, was rejected by the others. I thank our colleagues once again for being constructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u584	We have concluded our examination of the articles of the motion for a resolution. I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that explanations of vote by the groups and the vote, by public vote, on the whole motion for a resolution will be held on Tuesday, 4 June, after questions to the Government. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u585	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] I would like to say a word of thanks to the administrators and to all the teams who have worked hard to prepare this motion for a resolution and to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who have supported it. I thank the President for having been the author of this resolution. Finally, I thank all those who have contributed to giving its wealth to the debate. [[Same movements]] We all regret that the opposition was not present to participate. Thank you, in any case, to you who participated in the exercise so important as the evolution of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-29-O1253.u586	Next meeting, Monday, 3 June, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the mobility guidance bill. The meeting is adjourned.
