ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill to transform the civil service (No. 1802, 1924).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u2	On Friday evening, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the draft law, ending with amendment No. 239, which added article after article 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u3	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No 239.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u4	It is based on the report on working time in the public service recently issued by a mission of the IGF – General Inspectorate of Finance. The report was rich in information, particularly with regard to the day package. Today, the day-to-day plan exists in the public service, but few officers benefit from it, and they are rather supervisory staff, particularly in the public service of the State. The directions and nine specific bodies are subject to this regime. Judicial, administrative and financial judges, as well as members of the Council of State and the Court of Auditors, are subject to a close regime. The mission of the IGF notes that several notable exceptions are to be noted, as some departments, operators and institutions have no agents on the package. This is the case for staff of the Ministry of National Education and Higher Education and Research who perform leadership or inspection functions; civilian staff of the Ministry of Armed Forces, or staff of the CNRS – National Centre for Scientific Research – of the CEA – Commissariat for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energies – and of the INSERM – National Institute of Health and Medical Research – as well as civilian staff of the Office of the President of the Republic. They are all subject to an hourly regime. Following this observation, and that of the report on working time in the public service drawn up in 2016 by Mr Philippe Laurent, president of the Conseil supérieur de la fonction publique territoriale, who noted the interest of the package-days, the amendment aims to build a framework for using it for "staff entrusted with managerial, design or control functions, whose nature of functions does not lead them to follow the collective timetable applicable within the service or the team or who enjoy wide autonomy in the organisation of their work". The conditions for the application of these provisions would be specified by decree, following the advice of the Joint Civil Service Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u5	Mrs Emilie Chalas, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u6	Madam Member, I understand the logic of your amendment, but the mere fact that you refer to the decree shows that the provisions you are proposing are part of the regulatory aspect of the organisation of working time. Therefore, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment – otherwise I would be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u7	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Public Affairs and Public Accounts, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u8	I also ask for withdrawal. Mrs Motin, your diagnosis and the summary statement of the amendment are correct with regard to the state civil service. In our view, however, there is a lack of evidence to address the other two sides of the public service. The Laurent report, which you are quoting, does not, moreover, propose any changes as decided in relation to the territorial civil service and the hospital civil service as those put forward by the IGF for the state civil service. In the work that we will do pursuant to the Government's amendment adopted on Friday evening, after article 18, on the working time of the State civil service and, by extension, on the other two sides of the civil service, we will deal with the issue of day-time packages, which are part of the way in which working time can be approached. We will report on this work one year after the enactment of the law in the report provided for in the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u9	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 256.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u10	It aims to align the working time of employees of independent administrative authorities, independent public authorities and State operators with the 35-hour regime, as has been done for those of the three public offices. In particular, my reflection was informed by the Court's last annual report and its edifying observation of the working time of the staff of the National Furniture – about 30 hours a week, including a part devoted to personal work, known as wig work. The State's operators are particularly numerous and diversified: there are 484, which employ more than 400,000 people and benefit from around 50 billion euros of public funding. As such, it seems to me important that they be subject to the rules that apply to all French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u11	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u12	It seems to me that your amendment is satisfied with that of the Government, adopted on the night of Friday to Saturday, which reaffirms the rule of 1607 annual hours of work for the three sides of the civil service, public institutions and all the bodies that operate the public service. I therefore ask for his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u13	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u14	Same opinion. The status of certain independent administrative authorities is established by an organic law, but it only protects the powers, functions and role of the members of the colleges of these IAAs. However, all employees of these authorities are subject to the ordinary law of public officials, as are employees of public institutions or State operators where their contract is governed by public law. The Government's amendment that you adopted on Friday, which makes working time in the three sides of the civil service more consistent with the provisions of the Labour Code, i.e. 1607 hours a year, therefore also concerns these agents. The Court of Auditors' report, which you are quoting, and your amendment, however, invite us to look more closely at the particular situation of certain operators who have been left with a certain degree of autonomy in all management areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u15	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 557.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u16	It is intended to allow public employers to authorise, at the request of the agent and with the agreement of the head of department, a one-time period of telework. At present, this authorisation is only possible for regular and sustainable telework. However, public employers are receiving a growing number of requests for one-time telework periods, which they are unable to respond to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u17	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u18	Thanks to the telework and disconnection provisions we adopted last week, the social committees have been given competence in these matters, which will allow them to be discussed with union representatives, and they are among the issues at stake in the single social report. Your amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory. If there's no withdrawal, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u19	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u20	Same opinion. Ms Manin, Article 133 of the Act of 12 March 2012 provides that civil servants "may perform their duties in the context of telework as defined in the first paragraph of Article L. 1222-9 of the Labour Code". However, the latter article no longer specifies, since 2017, that telework must be carried out on a regular basis. It is therefore possible to allow telework for a specific period, as you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u21	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 716.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u22	Today, the right to strike is denied to all officers of the prison administration, in theory, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the institutions. It seems to us that this rule is too widely applied when it concerns administrative officers in support functions who are not directly involved in the operation of administrative establishments. Because this rule seems disproportionate, we want the right to strike to be guaranteed for these agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u23	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u24	Unfavorable opinion. I can hear your request, honourable Member, but as we said in the general debate, we will not, or very little, vote on amendments with sectoral arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u25	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u26	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u27	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u28	Let us take the example of the administrative officers of the supporting functions of the Ministry of the Interior: they enjoy the full right to strike, unlike the police officers, so-called active personnel. Perhaps we could make this distinction for the prison administration? You exclude in advance the "sectoral" provisions, but on that account, as much as not to discuss anything. And then, it is not a sectoral provision, since we are asking for the common law to apply more broadly. It all depends on the point of view we place ourselves in.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u29	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 19. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u30	Article 19 introduces a number of new provisions concerning public bodies which accompany public employers and local and regional authorities in their tasks relating to the career of public officials. On the one hand, this is the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service, for which provision is made for the publicity of the use of funds and financing, and on the other hand, for management centres, for which the text provides for the possibility of operating in a spirit of mutualisation or even fusion between several interdepartmental institutions in order to overcome the difficulties encountered in the territories in meeting all the compulsory and sometimes even optional tasks. The subject is important, yet I believe that we enter through the small door. In a way, we are dealing with the possibility for public employers, for local authorities, to be accompanied in a changing environment, from recruitment to the end of the career path of territorial public officials. Questions of training and reclassification, those of officials temporarily deprived of employment, as well as questions of health or preventive medicine are concerned. This is the extremely broad scope of the missions of these public institutions, which have been carrying out their own reflections and adaptations for several years now. The proper balance must be struck between the tasks entrusted, on the one hand, to the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service, a national public institution which the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council describes as a public administrative institution and, on the other hand, to the management centres, local public institutions federated by an association governed by the Act of 1901, the National Federation of Management Centres. In my view, the right balance has not yet been struck between missions that sometimes overlap between these different institutions, that is, one that would allow local and regional authorities to be better accompanied in their missions. One of the difficulties is the difference in the size of the communities, with clearly different needs for a commune of a few hundred inhabitants with a few territorial agents and for a department of one million inhabitants whose services have several thousand employees. Today, because of its funding, which is based on a mandatory basis for all communities with regard to the National Centre for Territorial Civil Service and on a mandatory basis only for those affiliated with it with regard to territorial civil service management centres, the system is neither clear nor effective. The provisions introduced in Article 19 lead to mutualisation logics. It will be necessary to see how the present proximity of the management centres to the agents will be guaranteed tomorrow in such logics: we have the example of the interdepartmental centres for the management of the small and large crown, which offer services of very high quality for the benefit of the territorial authorities. However, at the UDI-Agir, we have a greater ambition: we propose the merger of the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service and the management centres in a large national public institution responsible for all the tasks of accompanying the territorial authorities, from recruitment to training, preventive medicine and other social problems to all the tasks now laid down by the 1984 law, modified on this point by the law of 2012 but whose scope is still a little too vague and insufficiently effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u31	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u32	[[Other movements]] My intervention is within the framework of the scheduled time procedure – I say that because, in case some of you have better things to do than listen to it, it will take a little time. But I know that no one here wants to escape the interest of the debate that is before us. In the course of their interventions, as you have noticed, my unsubstantiated colleagues have tried to draw their thoughts on the state. For that is what we are talking about: public service is the real and concrete state. And the state is in our eyes the irreplaceable, consubstantial instrument to the republican idea. I am well aware that there are States without civil service of the nature of the one we know in our country, but this State, as it was conceived and formed over its long and profound history in France, as it has re-emerged from the necessities of liberation, as it became after the reform of Mr Anicet. Le Pors, La France insoumise is attached to it, knowing intimately the services it renders to the homeland and for the very idea that it is made of the structure of our republic. Apparently, this article is completely innocent and you could start with the usual trial: "Mr. Mélenchon, you are out of the question. As soon as there is a great principle, I am out of the question. But we believe that the main principles are subject to all technical measures. Let's pass this ordinary misunderstanding. I turn to the content of Article 19. It concerns the management centres of the territorial civil service. These are departmental public institutions that manage human resources for communities – career management, payroll, etc. You are planning, Mr. Secretary of State, to merge them into one by region. That means we're going to go from almost a hundred to... thirteen. First of all, as the previous speaker said, everyone will note the following concern: "Are you sure that the closeness that the people had so far enjoyed will still exist after you have merged and – we subodore it – reduce their numbers to a proportion? In our view, this would justify a deletion amendment. These concentrations on the regions, such as those on the metropolises, are of course part of a general process of reorganisation of the territory which gradually removes the communes, the intercommunal and departmental levels in order to allow only the survival and maintenance of the level of the regions, this kind of pseudo land to the French which makes many great liberal strategists dream when they think about the organization of the territory. But I want to go a little further, because if I wanted to speak to clause 19, it is because it allows me to fine-tune the accusation that we are making against this bill, to show that it is not only a bad text overall in that it affects the substance of the idea that we are making of the state, but also in that it is preparing the next steps. I'm asking you to think about it, colleagues. How did the Secretary of State and the main speakers of the majority speak to you about this reform of the public service without telling you once, for a moment, what link exists between the content of this text and the international negotiation that has been under way since 2013, called TISA – an English acronym for "trade in services agreement" – which aims to bring into the field of trade services today public. TISA's international negotiations deal, as far as we know, with education, health and more generally with what negotiators call "services". In their view, the activities of such centres are prototypically services. Who's negotiating TISA? The European Union, through the Commission, and in all 50 Member States of the World Trade Organisation. What is the mandate of the negotiators, on what subjects are they allowed to negotiate, what limits have been set for them? Well, I don't know more than you do! Maybe the Secretary of State knows that, but it's not even certain. The negotiating document is the subject of a copyright that has been deposited by the United States of America, that is to say, an exclusive right of exploitation relating to the text itself, which prohibits its access and distribution without authorization: you cannot freely consult it, it is in a vault, and you are in any case prohibited from making photocopies or even taking notes... The public service bill that you have been asked to study is part of the negotiation on TISA. To take only the example of these management centres, they will be strengthened tomorrow if this House passes this bill, I take the sad bet before it. For tomorrow, negotiators will say, as in the case of the structures responsible for the unemployed – of the "return to employment", as they say in order to euphemize the situation – which for them are destined to become private, that these management centres must be private centres because nothing, absolutely nothing in their activity escapes the idea of the negotiators of TISA of what is trade. Imagine that the so-called closed professions, such as pharmacists, lawyers or architects, whose internal rules are governed by agreements and professional orders – orders on which there is much to be said, but whose decisions are subject to appeal before the administrative courts – are for them a business, lawyers, pharmacists, architects or notaries, etc. are pure and simple traders. You can easily imagine what they can say about career managers, payroll managers, other territorial officials and all other public servants. Article 19 allows and even prepares the isolation of a public service and its contraction to make it compatible with the market; Since there will be only 13 management centres, it will be a possible market whose performance can be compared with those of others. TISA has a clause on which I want to draw the attention of national representation: a clause called a cliquet. This means that if out of happiness, by extraordinary means, by the virtue of the French people there was one day a majority of France in this assembly, supporting an unsubstantiated government, which decides to abolish this law – which will no doubt be voted for since there is a majority for it – leading, among other things, to the fact that the management centres, meanwhile privatized, become again a public thing, the clause cliques it would prohibit: it would no longer be possible for what has gone to the private one to return to the public. And at this time, there is no reason to say that the article you are about to vote will not bring all these organizations under the authority of TISA. What guarantees do you give, Secretary of State? The more organizations of this nature you focus, the more you open the ground for their privatization and the irreversibility of the world in which you would like our homeland to live, that of the market on everything and on all subjects. After the decision of the then French government – or perhaps of yours, having found in a few months that he had had a bad idea and wanting to go back on it – if in the meantime TISA was signed, the clause would immediately give permission to any multinational services to challenge it before an arbitration tribunal, also private. We continue to protest against these arbitration tribunals, reintroduced into the CETA negotiation – the free trade agreement with Canada – and recognized as compatible with the European treaties by the Court of Justice of the European Union. So that not only could the Government no longer reconsider the original decision, but if it did so by act of insubmission, it would have to compensate the multinationals who would have invested to be present on the market for the services they would not have provided. My colleagues, do not think that I am going too far to seek the chain of interdependencies that this type of text foresees. We do not live in a world in which the French Republic orders and disposes, then does as it wishes: our country is subject to international covenants, according to the principle pacta sunt servanda, laws and other rules of national law are subject to international agreements. And such an agreement will never be deliberated by the National Assembly, neither by the Senate, nor by the Congress of the Republic, for the reason that it has been accepted at European level that no more international trade agreements would be submitted to national parliaments! In other words, any provision that prepares the ground for the commercialization of services must be looked at by you, whatever the bench on which you sit, in the perspective of this complete change in the environment that will tomorrow be that of international trade and services. These are the angle from which all the supporters of the market as open as possible at the global level want to enter to crush what remains of the states. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It brings me back to the state. And I want to assume in the National Assembly what we are defending: yes, we are in favour of the iron bowl, yes, we are in favour of lifelong employment! Once the competition has passed and the recruitment has been carried out, we believe in life-long employment! For life-long employment is personal security, it is the ability to flourish, it is the ability to convert without fear along the way. We believe in life-long employment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u33	But that's not possible, you know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [["Yes! » on the benches of the FI group]] We don't think the more we're afraid, the better we work. We do not believe that the more uncertain one is in his destiny, the better one is for the community. We believe in the lifetime employment of people who have chosen the public service, that is, the general good. I hear the officials brocade; You know as well as I do, but ever since the state was in existence, public servants have been the subject of a particular harassment and a wide range of mockery, they have been presented as parasites, useless and ineffective, and they were called the round-cooks when they sewn them, because of their meagre pay, to the elbows of their jacket worn by the edge of their office, in short, many of the sobriquets that were used for few other trades. However, public servants are people who have made the choice of public service, the choice of the state and the general interest. The Insoumis love the state, the general interest and life-long employment. There are already too many contractors in the public service. There are 800,000 of them. We find it a very bad idea. This is an extremely low condition than that of the contractor. I know that sometimes we can't do otherwise, and I won't have the madness to argue that any contract has to be tenured. I was a minister of vocational education: I was able to see that people in a profession were also teaching in vocational schools – we were very happy about that, because the professionals who offered their services or who we sought were generally the best in their field. There was no question for them of working full-time in the public service. However, these are exceptional situations, which concern only a very small number of people, for which it is indeed possible to provide for special arrangements. But here we are talking about 800,000 people, who are obviously not all teachers teaching a specialty! And we are not talking about people coming to a few hours of animation on Wednesdays in a communal recreation centre, but about a large number of employees, of whom I had to know. Indeed, I honour myself for having organized a professional examination aimed at making teachers of vocational education who, for some, had been contractual for ten years and whose institutions could not do without their teaching in good conditions. This professional examination was introduced in order not to violate the status of the civil service, and to verify that the teachers concerned did indeed render the services that the State expected of them irreplaceable. That is why one of our tasks will be, when the time comes, to titularize all the contractors – with the exception of those who do not want it or who will not be titularizable. Every time we make this proposal, I see the eyes round like saucers. How, we are told, could anyone be titularized? This is now the public spirit, which is repulsive for anyone to have the guarantee of employment for life. Yet, as local elected officials or state administrators – I have been, like others on the benches of this House – we know the price of an official who knows how to do his job. In this regard, I would like to make it clear that lifetime employment does not mean a job for life. Lifelong employment is job security; But if you work in a local community, for example, you can move from the communal sports administration sector to the communal cultural administration sector. These breathings that occur during an official's career advance his level of qualification, enabling him to be ever more effective in the service of the public good. In fact, many people, particularly in the younger generation, perceive that one of the attractive aspects of the communal civil service is to be able, during one career, to move from one branch to another, by taking care of theatre and culture for three or four years, after having been in charge of sport for two or three years and before working subsequently in other fields which require training, thus raising the level of qualification that one possesses. Lifelong employment is the sine qua non of this flexicurity which is the only one I believe in. Yes, people need to be able to change their activity, because they're asking for it! But they must be able to do so in conditions of security and stability of employment. These conditions of employment depend not only on the personal development of civil servants, but also on their neutrality and incorruptibility. This is the reason why civil servants are so for life, without it being possible to place them at the door. So that when the organization of an administration, both communal and state, is changed, one of the first things to do for those who are at its head is to decide where to redeploy the personnel in charge of such an activity which is deemed obsolete or which no longer requires its services. With lifetime employment, the State thus gives itself the guarantee that its agents will be neutral and incorruptible, for they will not be subjected to the temptation not to be. Indeed, the very length of their careers and their permanence in the positions they occupy make them, in a way – I put the word in quotation marks – under the "supervisory" of the collective of work, who knows the content of the task they are doing and who is able to detect, years later, cases of corruption. Corruption is an endemic evil. Colleagues, the experience of life has taught us that corruption always begins with those who are just going to the top. Once it has been supported at the top, corruption contaminates, as leprosy or scab, the whole institution, so many of us, on all benches, have had to hunt this scourge in administrations where we did not imagine it was so widespread. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If you remove life-long employment, you will widen the loopholes through which corruption infiltrates. In saying this, I am not only thinking of the corruption of those who are stipended in the hope of obtaining a decision or an act that is not founded in law. I am talking about this other corruption of carrying out, with good conscience, a "mission" like those you plan to set up, and to change everything knowing that we are destroying everything, before going to work in private companies that will benefit from the new areas thus open to competition. Don't say it's not true or it's not possible! For where such a civil service exists, that is, at European Union level, it is continually that the Commissioners responsible for the environment are, upon leaving their posts, hired by companies producing pesticides or carbon fuels. The European Union is the showcase of what is doing worse in terms of traffic between the private and the public! I would like to say in this connection that I do not believe in the logorrhea that bringing private employees into the public administration would bring skills that were not there. To assert this is to show a great deal of contempt for public servants! The private sector has no form of intellectual, material or moral superiority over the public service and its agents. Officials love their job and do it as best they can. They're at our service. If the grievor who welcomes us at his desk does not do his job well, we can write a protest letter, arguing that he is being paid with our taxes. No one takes it away from us in our country! Now try to make a complaint on a hotline, as they call it, a "hot line." And we understand that it is hot, because the person who answers you and solves the problem that arises for a particular service in your building or in the street next door may be in my hometown of Tangier or somewhere in Pakistan! Don't tell me it doesn't exist, or it's because you don't have television, phone, or any other device like that! Civil servants embody the proximity and continuity of the State. You want to make it possible to appoint directors of administration on a contractual basis. This is a considerable mistake, which amounts not only to allowing an incredible slippery, but also to creating a new mentality around these people who are alien to the idea of unselfishness inherent in public service. This mentality bears a name in the states where it is practised, the "spoils system". This word from the United States of America refers to the fact that an "administration", i.e. a new political team, dismisses all the directors to put in their place people on board. The temptation has sometimes been great, even in the ranks of the old left to which I belong, to replace senior officials with other employees perceived as more docile. To succumb to it is a mistake, I would like to say, because public servants consider it to be their honour to serve and obey, and they do. When they're reminded, they're happy about it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] However, it is still necessary for political leaders to know what they want, which is not always the case, and to take responsibility for the orders they have given, that is to say the consequences of the policies they have decided. The policy of defeating the directors of the central administrations and the spirit to which it belongs are reflected in the contract. Tomorrow, it will be possible to put a police prefect at the door by saying that he was hurting the task for which he is being paid, because he will be contractual. No, this way of managing the state is not the right way, and it harms democracy! In democracy, only politics is accountable to the people. The public servants serve, obey and carry out the instructions given to them, whatever the government in place and whatever the political colour of the order given to them – and they do it! This is what has made, for generations, the superiority of the French State and its Republic, and the admiration brought to our public service. I said earlier that the public service was the real and concrete state. And the State is the real and concrete Republic. The word "republic" means, in fact, "the public thing": for it to remain public, the decision taken by all and applied to all must then find agents who implement it in the spirit of this norm. Indeed, what has been decided by all applies to all, whether it pleases or not, because it is the law that applies and governments are designated by parliamentary majorities that represent the people. The State is necessarily impartial, because private logics are not allowed to enter it. I think it is useful to do a parenthesis here to explain that I am not saying that the logics specific to private enterprise are not intrinsically good. This is certainly my view for some companies, especially for all monopolies or quasi-monopolies. I do not think there is any point in competing with them, because this has never led to an improvement in service or a reduction in costs. For others, I am not saying that this logic is bad, but that it has no place in the public service. By contractually appointing a head office manager because you find his work in a private company interesting, you will hire a man or woman whose organizational principles have nothing to do with the public service. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In a private company, one does its work according to the way in which it perceives efficiency, i.e. by first looking for profitability. But the standard of the State is not profitability, but efficiency and social utility. Nothing to do with profitability! We're not asking officials to spit out the dividend! We want their action to be effective. For this reason, there are internal rating systems that give rise to promotions. And if you feel attracted to another profession in the public service, you take a competition. Only the best ones are taken, that is, those who, according to the results of this competition, are the best. This meritocracy has nothing to do with hiring favouritism – because hiring this one rather than that one rather than that one because you have decided it is never just favouritism. All of us here have been the originators of orders; We had administrative responsibility, some of us even had to hire contractors. So we all know the part of arbitrariness that comes into such a decision which, by nature, is human. Tomorrow's something else we'll put in place. That is why I think this bill is generally very bad. It stuffs the entire contractual system, on all floors and at all levels. As I regret the indifference of those who first let the contracting of categories B and C pass, thinking that these small people were interchangeable. What a contempt and mistake it was on their part! Now, ladies and gentlemen, powerful and important, your turn has arrived. It is now up to you, the directors of administrations and central administrations, to be treated as you found normal yesterday that someone is being treated who cooks in the canteen or sweeps the schools. For these employees, lifetime employment seemed superfluous to you, because you thought it would be easy to find better jobs, because you didn't know their jobs were really jobs, not occupations. Your turn has come, and I regret it, because what is going to happen to the mill is the State and the guarantee of the Republic, the State and the guarantee of the general interest, which is not the sum of the particular interests but which is defined by our poor heads and during our laborious debates which allow us, when they come to an end, to change the definition of them. The state is the general interest, and if you want to be modern, you have to do the task of our time, which is to separate the state from the money. For thirty years, we've been dismantled, commercialized, turned into merchandise on all sides! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I appeal to those of my colleagues who sit on the right or on the left of the Chamber and who have been the founders or accompaniers of the modern state! The State is a common good forged by the experience of the entire nation and of all its political families. Defend the State! Do not let yourself be stunned, bewitched, stunned by the eternal propaganda against the public service that apologies private services. The state, the civil servants will always be more available and at your service than any mercenary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u35	All this is very manicene!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u36	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u37	Colleagues, I will be briefer than President Mélenchon: this Public Service Transformation Bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u38	[[Murmures on the benches of the FI group]] Mrs. Obono, are you listening?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u39	... must – or better so – allow for an improvement in the public service offered to our citizens. It should thus be an opportunity to recreate the link with the French by providing quality service on a proximity scale. Our fellow citizens often regret, as you know, the distance that would have been created between elected officials and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u40	A little Manichaean...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u41	This must be in mind when discussing this Article 19. We are moving with this, as we know, towards a regionalisation of the management centres which will have the result of undermining a chain of public action which already has loopholes in our territories. In general, this bill directs us towards a new organization of this public service in the management and training of public officials, with the objective of enabling economies of scale and professionalizing the new entities. In the spirit, we understand the case, but the enlargement of structures does not necessarily mean greater efficiency. Moreover, this effectiveness should not allow for all sorts of reforms. While the objective in itself is commendable, we must be vigilant about the method used: this bill should allow for a better match between the competencies of territorial public service personnel and the needs of communities and the realities of each territory. The Libertés et Territoires Group had, as we know, tabled an amendment to Article 19 in order to alert our House to what, in the long run, can help to increase the distance between the major players in the chain of public action, public officials and our fellow citizens. Let us not go astray: we must stop putting an ever greater distance between the resources available to our territories and our fellow citizens. So we have more than just doubts about this case. I will only quote the example of the Haute-Corse Public Service Management Centre: will it be destroyed, since it is withdrawn? Where are we going, while it is the main centre of life, to implant it tens of miles away? It's obviously inconceivable. This bill leads us to regionalization of management centres. We therefore wish to have the assurance that this development will not destruct the functioning of the management centres and keep them away from the territories: we must maintain this proximity and the service rendered to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u42	We come to the amendments. I have before me two amendments to delete Article 143 and 718. Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 143, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u43	My argument lies in the line of words that Michel Castellani has just made. So why delete this article? Because it seemed to us, in his reading, that the main motivations for this grouping of management centres were, of course, the so-called mutualisation, but were primarily budgetary in nature. It immediately emerges – not that from time to time there is no need to try to pool – that the issues of training, human resources and personnel career management are being addressed in this case. It seems to us that it is a risk to move workplace management centres further away from public servants. On the other hand, the purely budgetary angle of this development will inevitably translate, in our view, into a reduction in the service rendered and in the quality of the services provided. I also see this as a contradiction with the words made by the President of the Republic at the end of the great national debate, which were intended to be rather reassuring. It seemed to me that he concluded this one by saying, "I heard the mayors, I heard the local elected officials. I may have heard them insufficiently at the beginning of my term of office, but on the occasion of this great debate, I listened to you. Mayors are the pillars of our democracy in our country. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u44	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u45	After being superbly ignored, these are the mayors adorned with all virtues. We need to look at the proximity of our public services in the territories as well as the prune of our eyes. There is therefore a dissonance between the remarks made by the President of the Republic at the end of this great debate and this article, which aims on the contrary to further remove the public services from the territories, knowing that the management centres are one for the functioning of our territorial civil service, its training and its human resources. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to delete Article 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u46	Amendment No 718 by Mr Ugo Bernalicis is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u47	He's unfavorable. The mutualization of the missions of the management centres takes place in a rather heterogeneous manner in the territory. Where they have shared their missions, they are now able to develop cutting-edge expertise in certain areas, thereby providing higher-quality services to communities and their agents. It is therefore a matter of going further than mere mutualization by making possible – and not mandatory – the merger, according to the proven model of the interdepartmental centres of the Île-de-France region. The introduction into the law of this new faculty is thus such as to encourage the centres to become part of a greater rapprochement dynamic. This proposal was included in the report on the training and career management of local and regional authority officials submitted on 12 February to the Prime Minister by our colleagues Jacques Savatier, Member of Parliament for Vienna, and Arnaud de Belenet, Senator of the Seine-et-Marne. We have enriched this article in committee with a view to encouraging the sharing of missions at regional level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u48	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u49	It is also unfavourable. Article 19 provides for the possibility of merging management centres which wish to do so. There is no obligation in this area, and we will not go towards the establishment of thirteen management centres: this is a completely optional approach. Furthermore, the rapporteur's amendments to recognise the role played by certain management centres – also in a regional scheme – were adopted in committee. I would point out that the original text, that is, the draft bill, provided for the possibility of merging management centres in the same region. At the request of a large part of the representatives of the National Federation of Management Centres, we have extended this possibility to neighbouring departments not belonging to the same region. This measure is expected. It could be applied for the first time, always on a voluntary basis, within the framework of the merger, in any case of the rapprochement, of the Bas-Rhin and the Haut-Rhin on the occasion of the creation of the unique community of Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u50	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 623.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u51	This amendment by my colleague Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe aims to make possible the merger of management centres located in overseas communities forming an archipelagic whole, such as Guadeloupe and the Northern Islands of Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u52	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u53	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u54	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u55	He's in favor. I made the following point, which I spoke to Ms. Vainqueur-Christophe: the communities of Saint-Martin will have to formally join the Guadeloupe Management Centre. Today, in practice, vacant job offers on Saint-Martin are addressed to the Guadeloupe Management Centre because Saint-Martin has not yet made the choice of membership. With this clarification, the Government's opinion is in favour: this provision will allow for subsequent reconciliations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u56	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 221.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u57	This amendment was tabled by my colleague Raphaël Schellenberger. Treasury accountants receive allowances from communities – or their public institutions – whenever they are ordered benefits or advice. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This amendment proposes that this remuneration should be abolished when such tasks are entrusted to them: they can be considered to be part of their general mission and therefore of the salaries they receive for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u58	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u59	We have already had this debate after Article 16a. I will let the Secretary of State answer you precisely about the financial consequences of your amendment. As far as I am concerned, I do not find it illogical that reception and assistance benefits should be paid. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u61	It is also unfavourable at this stage, for reasons quite similar to those put forward by the rapporteur. In addition, this is a project that is being opened within the departments of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts and which is expected to become a financial law for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u62	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u63	The purpose of this amendment is to open up the possibility of access to the preparation of competitions for access to employment posts in categories A and B; Today, the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service fulfils this mission almost exclusively for categories A. The idea is therefore to open this preparation to category B competitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u64	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u65	I understand the idea of this amendment, and we share the ambition to modernise the public service and move forward on the issue of access to competitive preparation; It is a matter of particular concern to us. However, I would refer you back to the order under section 22 of Title IV of the bill, on training reform. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u66	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u67	The adoption of Mrs Motin's amendment would result in the opening of the preparatory classes integrated into categories B of the territorial civil service: this, in my view, is its objective. However, these classes are only open to categories A since 2016, with the CNFPT in charge of implementing this measure. We are awaiting an initial assessment of this period of implementation of the preparatory classes integrated into the territorial civil service. We do not wish to extend the scheme at this stage, that is, until we have reached the end of this experiment. We want to take stock first of all of categories A. This, however, is also a matter of the points that we need to look at. I have in mind other arrangements, such as PrAB – Preparation for Category A and B competitions – which allow the preparation of competitions that open up access to Category B jobs. I therefore ask you, Madam Member, to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the Government will give an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u68	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u69	I therefore hear that an experiment is under way. I would like to see that every time this happens, we wait for an evaluation before changing the device concerned... This will be discussed later when we move forward with the bill. I will withdraw this amendment, but by asking the Secretary of State to pay particular attention, in the evaluation report to be submitted to him, to how this openness can also better ensure equal opportunities for access to these categories of jobs between men and women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u70	You have the floor, Mrs Motin, to support Amendment No 266.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u71	This amendment concerns an experiment which has already taken place for several years and which involves the management centres of Hauts-de-Seine, Seine-Saint-Denis, Val-de-Marne, Essonne, Val-d'Oise and the Yvelines. Within this framework, these departments have an obligation to inform each other about vacancies and the results of the competitions they organise. I propose to extend this cooperation, which works very well in these six departments, to all departments in each region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u72	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u73	Dear colleague, you have just defended Amendment No 237, which comes immediately after. With regard to Amendment No 266, the Committee's opinion is unfavourable. I would like to take this opportunity to give my opinion on Amendment No 237: if we obviously share the principle, we would first like to encourage the merger of management centres, precisely on the basis of the francilian model, as well as the pooling of certain competences at regional level. Once these mergers have taken place, we will be able to draw some lessons and consider what you are planning. At this stage, the committee asks you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, it will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u74	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u75	Mr President, if I may, I shall first give my opinion on Amendment No 266, recalling, since this was the subject of Mrs Motin's request, that we would like to see clarification of the public service tasks carried out by the CNFPT, in particular the use of resources. The amendment that we have adopted in committee, which will lead the committee to report to Parliament, so that it will lead to a yellow budget, seems to me to be responding to your request. I therefore ask you, Madam Member, to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, the Government will give an unfavourable opinion. With regard to Amendment No 237, which seeks to oblige management centres to inform each other of vacancies and the results of competitions, it is now possible to advertise vacancies and job creations for the three categories by means of the Place de l'Emploi public website. The decree of 28 December 2018 obliges each employer, on all three sides, to advertise all the vacancies, whether they are incumbent or contract positions, provided that the duration of the contract is greater than one year. In addition, an amendment adopted in committee provides that the advertising of job vacancies and job creations for category C will also be coordinated at regional level, i.e. between management centres, by the coordinating management centre. I would add that the publicity of the aptitude lists pursuant to Articles 39 and 44, which provide the results of the competitions organised by the management centres, is an obligation for the latter. Again, your advertising objective has been achieved. For all these reasons, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment too: whether it is in the existing texts, through what was decided in committee or by the decree of 28 December last, the advertising objectives are guaranteed and expanded at regional level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u76	Amendment No 237 by Mrs Cendra Motin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u77	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 972.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u78	This is an appeal amendment, which is in line with what I said in the discussion on Article 19. The aim of this amendment is to create a single public institution responsible for all matters relating to the organisation of competitions, the training of officials and the support of local authorities and public employers in certain situations, such as reclassification. I repeat: today there is an overlap between the powers vested in the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service – CNFPT – and those of the management centres, and a lack of legibility with regard to certain missions, all the more so as the 2012 law has changed some of them. There is also a form of competition in training between bodies, public or private, which local and regional authorities are obliged to make use of because, at present, the means and organisation of the CNFPT do not allow it to meet the ever-changing needs of public employers. I would like to place particular emphasis on the issue of the funding of these missions, particularly those allocated to management centres. There is now a form of inequality, because it is the smallest territorial authorities, those who are obliged to join a management centre, i.e. who have fewer than 350 public officials within them, who finance all the compulsory missions of management centres, while larger communities, which are not obliged to join them, have at their disposal the technical resources and resources necessary to address the career and career issues of their agents. These missions, small communities have a great deal of difficulty in fulfilling them, while the responsibilities in this regard are the same regardless of the size of the community. I drafted this amendment very simply, because I did not want to rewrite sections 12 et seq. of the 1984 Act and fall under inadmissibility. However, I would like to emphasize – and we will discuss this again in article 22, which empowers the Government to make an order to modify the organization of initial and continuing training for public officials – that this is a subject which, in my view, deserves a much broader debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u80	This is an important subject that you are raising here, Mr. Brindeau, but in this text we are not going along the path of fusion between these establishments. Following the report by our colleagues Jacques Savatier and Arnaud de Belenet, we prefer to favour the regional sharing of the missions of the management centres; We have already discussed this during the discussion of the previous amendments. With regard to the big bang you are proposing, I find your suggestion interesting in my personal capacity, but I believe that it should be the subject of in-depth reflection, in conjunction with the actors concerned, in particular the local elected representatives, for example in the context of a text specifically devoted to local authorities. The President of the Republic had also announced that the Government was working towards that end. This may be an opportunity to consider your proposal. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u82	Thank you, Mr. Brindeau, for first pointing out that this was an appeal amendment. As the rapporteur has said, we have not chosen the path you are proposing. We have chosen to ask management centres to establish a regional sharing scheme so that a number of skills can be shared and rationalizations can be carried out. We have also made the choice to impose by law the signing of a convention on clarification and complementarity in the exercise of powers between the management centres thus federated at the regional level and the CNFPT, whose organization is regional, even if there are now twenty-two interdepartmental delegations – I imagine that their mapping will adapt in due course. We made these choices with the view that the CNFPT was a joint body, with management involving trade union organisations and employers' representatives, unlike management centres. It seems to us complicated to achieve the fusion of two organisms of such a different nature. We also found that unlike the CNFPT, the Federation of Management Centres is not a national public institution. We are not considering turning it into that. Finally, we noted that the current organization could be adjusted without the need for a new system. In particular, we did not accept one of the proposals in the report by Jacques Savatier and Arnaud de Belenet, namely the creation of an EPIC, a public industrial and commercial establishment, since we believe that it is better to improve the exercise of existing competences than to change the model as abruptly. So we disagree with the path you are proposing, even though it is true that initially, the two options were possible. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u83	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u84	I will not withdraw the amendment, because I would like this debate to be mentioned in the record. However, I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the Secretary of State for their replies. I remain convinced that the road you are taking today is only an intermediate route which will ultimately lead us to the conclusion that the creation of a single national public institution, which takes over all these competences, is the best solution for local and regional authorities and public employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u85	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 719.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u86	By this amendment, we oppose the competition of hospitals through contract-making and deconcentrated management of hospital officials. During the first reading of the bill on the organization and transformation of the health care system, we attended the first stage, with the contracting of doctors. Now it's the directors' turn. When will we become aware that the hospital is a public health service? If you're sick, in France, you can take care of yourself through hospitals. To want to privatize hospitals, to contract the posts and the management of these establishments, is to walk on the head! That is why we propose the deletion of Article 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u88	As far as contracting is concerned, we have already had – for a long time – the debate in Article 7. So I won't come back. In this case, it is a matter of ensuring its proper application in the hospital public service. For example, 81 jobs, currently available to hospital managers, will be open to contract workers, bringing the total to 365. As far as the second point is concerned, it is a matter of deconcentrating, in the interests of simplification, certain acts of management of managerial posts – hospital director, director of health, social and medico-social establishments and director of care – from the National Management Centre to the institutions themselves. The management of the careers of nearly 5000 directors requires the massive production, each year, of individual or collective decisions by the National Management Centre. It does not appear relevant that decisions without any real impact on the career of staff are centralised at national level. I see nothing in this which is likely to increase competition between health facilities; On the contrary, this will allow for community management. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u90	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u91	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u92	Can't you see where the difficulty lies, rapporteur? Yet, all caregivers tell you and say it again, supported by several directors, especially those of public EHPAD, because they too are tired of the current situation and would like to do something other than manage the piggy bank and take care of accounting lines. I do not know any director of public EHPAD who wishes to be contracted. We're talking about public health. No one chooses to get sick. Every Frenchman is proud to be able to say that if the disease falls on him, we will take care of him and treat him. Contractualizing to create competition between hospitals is dangerous. One day, we'll say, this hospital is a bad student, we'll shut it down. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, SOC and LR]] Finally, excuse me, Madam rapporteur, but talk about community hospitals while the Minister of Solidarity and Health is closing them – even if, officially, it is only the services that are closed – it makes you smile!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u93	I have before me an amendment No 1117, introducing an additional article after Article 20, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 1166. The Secretary of State has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u94	In committee, many Members called for codification of the various texts relating to the civil service, with a view to ensuring greater readability, and for this codification exercise to be used to carry out the necessary coordination and correct any errors in this field. In general, codification is done by order. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to seek from Parliament the authorization of the Government to codify by order the texts relating to the civil service, within 24 months of the enactment of the Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u95	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 1166.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u96	It is to be made clear that the errors mentioned in paragraph 3 of the amendment are material errors. Indeed, if one mentions "errors", without any more precision, one may open a far too wide field for the modification of the texts that one intends to codify. We could thus imagine correcting political mistakes. Therefore, it would be possible to question the economy of a text when it is codified. It is therefore an amendment of a drafting nature rather than something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u97	What is the committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u98	The sub-amendment is relevant: favourable opinion. As for the Government's amendment, I asked you about it at your hearing in committee, Mr. Secretary of State; I am therefore very pleased that the Government has decided to embark on this project, which, as we know, will take a very long time, but which was necessary. The codification will make it possible to recognise the situation of civil servants, who do not have the equivalent of the labour code for private employees, and to confirm the uniqueness of the civil service through its three sides. I find this essential as we modernize and transform the public service. This is a real operational issue for civil servants and public employers, beyond the symbol, that is, the expression of the Government's recognition of the civil service. Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u99	What is the Government's opinion on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u100	As drafted, the amendment seemed to us to make the precision superfetal; In any case, she seemed satisfied. But if Mr Brindeau's intention, through this sub-amendment, was to reassure us, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u101	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u102	At the outset, I had thought that the codification of the rules applicable to the public service could be a real added value, and that one could agree with the arguments that supported it; But, if we were malicious – which I am not – we could say that the purpose of this codification is, in fact, to establish a parallel with the labour code, in order to facilitate the fusion of the two codes. But, I repeat, I really would have to be malicious or ill-intentioned to think so. However, I cannot remove this idea from my head, because you are constantly, on every point, building bridges with classical labour law, as the Secretary of State has explained on several occasions. I would therefore like more details on this aspect. In fact, I understand that things are a little complicated for you, obliged that you are going to look for pieces of article here or there, in some general status, to establish a parallel with the labour code applicable to the private sector. A code, identical in its form, would undoubtedly simplify the task of the apprentices of cutting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u103	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 301, which contains an additional Rule before Rule 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u104	As we know, technological advances and the digital revolution are upsetting, and will continue to upset many professions; sometimes they even create or remove them. The obsolescence of certain trades is a reality, as well as the increasing technicality of some others. Our young people, our students, are aware of this, as well as the private sector, probably more aware of this problem because it is looking for innovations to face competition. In order to respond, there is an increasing demand for space mobility, but also for intellectual mobility, so that employees continue to train and demonstrate the ability to adapt to the new tools. While the public sector is also facing this growing problem, it is regrettable that the bill does not envisage any in-depth reform, particularly through the creation of positions and cross-sectional bodies, which are better able to respond to them. This would introduce greater flexibility between public posts, but also between the public and private sectors. If I adhere to Mr Marleix's amendment, it is that the simplification of the management of the public service seems to me to be an absolute necessity, not only for the officials themselves, who would gain in readability, but also for the French, who finance it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Through this amendment, the LR Group therefore intends to facilitate management methods.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u106	The committee rejected this amendment. The proposal, as I said, is interesting, but it cannot be dealt with by amendment, as you know. I therefore hope that it will be addressed in the context of the work of the Thiriez mission announced by the President of the Republic, which will address not only the senior civil service, but perhaps also the statutory issues. I therefore confirm to you, Mr Minot, the committee's unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u107	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u108	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u109	Mrs Danièle Obono's deletion amendment No 720 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u110	Mrs Josette Manin has the floor to support Amendment No. 556.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u111	The purpose of this amendment is to restore in the law the feeding rhythms and the different ceilings of the personal training account – CPF – for public officials. I thank you for the current provisions of the law on this subject. As presented, article 21 of the draft law is intended to ensure the portability of rights related to the personal training account in the event of mobility between the private and public sectors. However, the reference to the decree on the fixing of feeding rates and the different ceilings of the CPF presents a risk of a reduction in the rights to the training of public officials. By this amendment, we therefore wish to maintain the current rights of public officials with regard to the personal training account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u112	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u113	The amendment lists the regulatory elements laid down by decree. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u115	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u116	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u117	Since we are talking about a decree, I would like to go back to the question asked on several occasions by our colleague Vallaud: what is the situation with regard to the communication of future decrees to parliamentarians and trade union organisations? Could we at least know whether this communication will take place before the bill is finally read, or later? It would be good if we were informed, to be able to position ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u118	Amendment No 859 by Mrs Émilie Chalas, rapporteur, is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u119	We come to amendments on the additional article after Article 21. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u120	This time, it is a matter of creating a directory of public inter-service trades. While the harmonization of bodies and statutory schemes is a long-standing objective, largely advanced by the PPCR protocol – career paths, careers and remuneration – there is to date no directory of trades common to the three sides of the public service, each with its own repertoire. The creation of a common directory would be beneficial in more than one way. In particular, it would facilitate mobility between different public functions, enable the identification of different professions, facilitate the harmonization of conditions of employment and statutory provisions and create the necessary conditions for the establishment of "professional" recruitment in the civil service. Such a measure appears feasible, on the basis of the three existing directories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u122	The subject, which is very interesting, falls fully within the scope of the ordinances referred to in Article 22, one of which is the reform of recruitment arrangements and initial training, with a view to increasing the common culture of public action by officials. The mission entrusted to Frédéric Thiris by the President of the Republic must take up this matter as well. I therefore think it would be preferable to wait until the work of this mission is concluded to launch the experiment that you propose, even if it is an interesting lead: at this stage, request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u124	I am afraid, Mrs Motin, that you have tabled Amendment No 233, not Amendment No 238. The latter concerns the organisation of joint competitions and the creation of a register of trades in No 233. As regards Amendment No 238, Article 13 of the 1983 Act already provides for the creation of statutes common to several bodies or employment offices, falling within at least two of the three sides of the civil service. This provision, which allows for identical recruitment modalities, has hardly been used. So we can work on it. That said, with your amendment, you are proposing regional experiments, which, under the rule of law, would be contradictory to the national nature of the public service's competitions, including on its territorial side. For this reason alone, the opinion is unfavourable, on the understanding that we must encourage the application of section 13 of the 1983 Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u125	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor in support of Amendment No 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u126	This amendment by Mr Reda concerns public road surveillance officers – ASVP – who, without special status, are appointed by the responsible authorities in administrative or technical positions, often in contractual positions. That is why we propose the creation of a specific employment framework for ASVPs, which could naturally be integrated into the municipal police sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u127	So Amendment No 233 has already been defended, Mrs Motin?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u128	I confirm that this amendment concerns the creation of a common register of trades in the three public functions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u129	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u130	Same argument as before, therefore same opinion: request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u131	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u132	The argument will be different, since I spoke on Amendment No 238. Amendment No 233 is satisfied by the decree of 28 December, Mrs Motin, which has made it possible, through the portal "Place de l'emploi publique", which I have mentioned on several occasions, to publish a table of correspondence. Today, an officer of the territorial civil service can thus be acquainted with all the bodies of his counterpart, and to which he can therefore belong. The advertising and readability of managers and employment bodies are therefore already ensured, since the directories specific to each of the three sides can be crossed by this correlation table.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u133	Has your amendment been withdrawn, Mrs Motin?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u134	I hear very well, Mr Secretary of State: what you have described is important preparatory work, but that does not prevent me from pushing the idea of creating a single repertoire to the end. I therefore maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u135	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 956.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u136	This appeal amendment, which I have already tabled in committee, aims to make a separate interview mandatory from the annual evaluation interview. This interview would be devoted to the possibilities of professional development of any public official, regardless of the side to which he belongs. In short, it is a matter for the agent to place his suitcases at a certain point in his career, so that his possibilities of evolution or personal wishes can be explored. It could thus project itself on what is called the "second career", which, tomorrow, will be very different from the linear career we have known to date. A number of occupations or missions in the public service may have characteristics of penitibility, whether physical or psychological, so that the same officer cannot be considered for forty years or more. In a word, it is a matter of enabling agents to project themselves more easily in the second part of their careers, and to give them precise tools to do so. The interview I propose should, in my view, take place with the immediate supervisor and a representative of the Human Resources Directorate, but also with a focal point who would be designated, as appropriate, in the community or service of the State concerned. This reference could objectiveize the positioning of the agent in relation to his professional future, and suggest the tools to be mobilised to facilitate his "second career": this is a major issue in the territorial authorities, of course, but also in a large number of State services, where, without having settled them upstream, problems arise – downgrading, demotivation or, sometimes, significant absenteeism – in agents "broken" by their profession or mission, not only physically, but also often, I repeat, psychologically.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u138	We had this discussion in committee. I confirm to you, Mr Brindeau, the unfavorable opinion, even if we understand the scope of your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u140	As the rapporteur said, we had the debate in committee, and the opinion was already unfavourable. However, we have ensured in Article 3 that among the established competences of social dialogue bodies are the forward-looking management of jobs and skills and the development of the professions, thus also the prospects of reclassification or second or third career. I hope that the exercise of these new skills will allow you to meet your expectations and to adjust the age at which the officer would have access to this type of interview in order, to use your expression, to "put the suitcases" and to take stock of how he wants to evolve professionally. Unfavorable opinion, therefore, for this reason alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u141	Mr Alain Perea, the first speaker on the agenda, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u142	Article 22 is intended to reorganise the training of public officials, including managers. In this regard, I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to a subject that is of great interest to me: the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service, the CNFPT. In 1995, as part of my initial training as manager B, we were taught the techniques of Japanese business management. We had been many to insurrection: "When was a real management of the local public service? » It is true that decentralization had only a few years of existence: we were not there yet. But in the 2000s, having passed a competition, I received an initial training again and this time it was a true culture of local public service and local management that was passed on to us. I firmly believe that the CNFPT is more indispensable than ever for local public service. We have seen how much we need to go further in decentralization – the President of the Republic has repeated it on several occasions – how much the elected representatives and local actors in general want the local authorities to have more powers and resources and work in relation to the specificities of the territories. For having been trained and then trained at the CNFPT, with its various schools, I am firmly convinced that this organization is the ideal crucible to study and answer these questions. I am therefore very concerned about what you are about to reform by order: I would not like the CNFPT, the school of the territorial public service, to be crushed and drowned by large machines, training centres where public service would be spoken of while moving more and more away from the local level and the user. Finally, the CNFPT is also a formidable tool for equalization and support to small municipalities. In France there are very many communes which do not contribute to it but whose managers receive training.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u143	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u144	It would be a shame if the reform would deprive all these small communities of the opportunity to send their cadres to training, a training that the CNFPT provides them with easy access. While the future system could be based on calls for tenders requiring very high budgets – all local elected officials know how expensive private training can be – the CNFPT offers the possibility of training, if not free, since it is financed by a contribution, at least quite affordable and can be covered by the payroll budget. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – MM. François Jolivet and Pierre-Alain Raphan also applaud]] This, I repeat, is an indispensable tool for the future of our territories and communities. So I am really counting on you, Secretary of State, to ensure that the evolution of the CNFPT is in the right direction. I have tabled two amendments reflecting what I have just said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u145	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u146	Article 22, like others, empowers the Government to intervene directly on a legislative subject, in an important area: the financing and organization of public institutions or services that contribute to the training of public officials. This is the CNFPT that our colleague has just mentioned, but not just. At a time when Frédéric Thiris has just been commissioned to reflect on the future of the National School of Administration, this is the kind of debate that we should have in the Chamber, and not just in the context of the ratification of the ordinances that the article empowers the Government to take. What are the intentions of the Government at this stage, that is, before the production of Frédéric Thirez's report, not only with regard to the ENA but also with regard to the schools that train territorial agents, the National Institute of Territorial Studies – the INET – and the regional administrative institutes, the IRAs? Are these agencies part of the mission's perimeter? Is it conceivable that they will be attached to the CNFPT tomorrow, since the competences of this national public institution should still extend, perhaps even to include those currently assigned to management centres?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u147	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u148	First of all, with regard to the reform of the high civil service, here are the objectives of the mission entrusted by the Prime Minister to Frédéric Thirez, in an order that I specify is not chronological: to examine, with a view to diversifying the profiles, the conditions for the recruitment of public service schools forming part of the high civil service; work on access to large bodies and on the career management of senior officials leaving these schools; Finally, work on the very nature of the training provided. In addition, we hope that all senior officials will share a common culture, to which the training cycle must contribute. We think first of all of the senior officials of the State, regardless of the school they attend; But I am personally convinced that those in the territorial civil service, especially the former students of the INET, must have the same culture of the State and of public action, prior to the mobility that we hope to develop, both in each of the three sides of the country, at the level of the high public service and between these three sides. He was therefore working on all three sides, paying particular attention to senior government officials, since they were the subject of the greatest number of questions, particularly with regard to access to large bodies and subsequent career management. I come to Mr Perea's speech. I could have done almost the same, especially with regard to the role of the CNFPT. I know, honourable Member, your fears about this, about which we have had a brief exchange. We have made various provisions in this text, either from the outset or by way of an amendment, aimed at improving the coordination between the CNFPT and the management centres by region, so that the CNFPT can report to Parliament on the use of its resource – this is the budgetary yellow that I mentioned earlier. We will have to discuss, on the occasion of other articles, the place of the CNFPT in the accompaniment and financial support of the development of learning in the territorial public service – a good lead in my view, although we will certainly still have to discuss its exact modalities. Behind the concerns that you have expressed, there is a concern that the area of initial and continuing training in the territorial public service is being transformed and that calls for tenders are becoming more widespread, however, that the CNFPT would be reduced to the role of a mere provider of skills. That was not the intention of the Government or the direction it wished to take. The parliamentary report I mentioned earlier proposed the creation of a public industrial and commercial establishment supervising the training sector. This is not our direction either: I said a few moments ago that we did not want to change the organization of training in the territorial public service so profoundly. Let us therefore preserve the present system: the CNFPT, its joint management, the freedom to organise its services – although, I repeat, the maintenance of the twenty-two interdepartmental delegations, based on the old regions, would certainly benefit from being more focused on the current regional organisation. We specifically want the CNFPT and the management centres to be able to conclude agreements at the regional level. The regional health agency manages human resources issues in the hospital sector;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u149	That's a good example.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u150	... a regional human resources platform of the State is competent for the facilitation of human resources policies at this level; We hope that the two management centres and CNFPT, bound by a convention, will be a third interlocutor, so as to work across the region from one side of the public service to the other. I repeat, we do not want to go as far into structural reform as the report refers to and which may have raised fears; On the contrary, we want to strengthen certain skills, particularly in the area of learning. I hope I have reassured you, Mr Perea – I say this in advance about your amendments, on which you can guess what the Government's opinion will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u151	We come to the amendments. I have before me several deletion amendments Nos 54, 90, 145, 347, 383, 555, 721 and 957. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u152	The principle of the use of an order is justified in the impact assessment by the "work of legal expertise to be carried out and possibly a consultation aimed at enlightening the options for reform [...]". This argument is not admissible since it is also stated that the bill has been prepared for more than 12 months and has been the subject of concerted action for 15 months. In addition, amendments propose training developments which could be tested or applied directly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u153	Mr Jean-Louis Masson's amendment No. 90 is being defended. Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 145, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u154	I repeat the arguments put forward by Mr Perea. Every time we talk about prescriptions, we can only be worried...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u155	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u156	...whatever degree of confidence we give to the Government, since it asks us to sign a blank cheque: we don't know where we're going. And the most worried are CNFPT staff. This is a new illustration of the government's approach to the law against the unanimity of the first concerned. This lack of respect for the intermediate bodies and the indispensable negotiations with the professionals in the sector – the one we are talking about like many others – poses in itself a democratic problem, further aggravated by the use of ordinances. Indeed, you say about what you no longer want, but you do not say at all what you want, and that only makes concerns more acute. Especially since the impact assessment, after the parliamentary report on the subject submitted last February, shows how strong is the temptation – it should not be realized – to open the field of training for public service personnel to private operators. This possibility is suggested by many reports and in many places. In this context, one can only be very concerned when the law does not clearly state that the CNFPT will retain its role and that the training of public officials will remain in a public setting – as long as the Government asks us for a blank order. And if we stick to all the reference documents on the subject, be it the impact study, the pre-report by Arnaud de Belenet and Jacques Savatier..., since, in the absence of any communication from the Government on its intentions, we do not know what recommendations will be adopted, everyone has reason to be concerned. And this is all the more so as we hear a little recurring music on the individualisation of training paths, on the new public management, very inspired by the management specific to the private sector. So, under the guise of a pragmatic discourse, supposedly focused on the search for efficiency, the promotion of a logic, I insist, managerial, raises fears about the weakening of the status of the public service and the risk of a reintroduction of practices that this status, precisely, had made obsolete. I am speaking here for the GDR Group, but also for many local elected officials, many public service staff and, of course, CNFPT staff, to say that these orders are too worrying, I repeat, to consider it reasonable to proceed as you intend to do. That is why we wish this article to be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u157	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 347.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u158	The Freedom and Territory Group is also opposed to the use of ordinances. I do not go back to the many concerns that our colleagues have just expressed, but I will insist that the ordinances often "forget" to take into account certain problems, so that we result in poorly drafted, imperfect and therefore difficult to implement texts. It is therefore a pity to deprive Parliament of its essential prerogative, to legislate, and, in this case, in an area as important as that of the formation of the public service. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u159	Amendment No 383 by Mr Pierre Cordier is being defended. I call Mr Regis Juanico to support Amendment No. 555.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u160	The deputies of the Socialist and Related Group also want the deletion of section 22, which empowers the Government to legislate by ordinances. Except on very technical matters and provided that it is applied in an exceptional manner, we are opposed to this practice, since it consists in disposing of Parliament of one of its fundamental prerogatives for the benefit of the Government: to write the law. However, Article 22 does not deal only with ad hoc technical subjects, whether it concerns the financing of public institutions which contribute to the training of public officials – the CNFPT, INET, among other things – the modalities of recruitment, initial training, continuing training or the training of the least qualified. As we have done in the case of Article 5, on negotiations in the civil service, or in the case of Article 17, on health and supplementary social protection for public officials, we believe that, with regard to the training of public officials, it is in Parliament to legislate. We do not have to leave our hands free to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u161	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 721.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u162	I agree with the previous interventions on the CNFPT. I want to be sure that we have all understood the same thing and that there are no loopholes: Secretary of State, can you confirm that the CNFPT will not become a public industrial and commercial establishment – EPIC? Can you confirm that employers will still contribute 0.9% of their employees' salaries? Are you considering raising this rate to 1%, a historical demand of trade union organisations – the equalization system outlined by our colleague Perea remains therefore a fundamental principle of the formation of the CNFPT? The information you give us is indeed a little strange: do you take on your own account the parliamentary report already mentioned or do you dispute the proposals? You speak of twenty-two CNFPT branches while mentioning thirteen regions. Are you telling us that you're hearing from twenty-two to thirteen antennas? You have stated that you want to contract them through agreements with management centres so that there is only one contact person. However, when we discussed the management centres earlier, you indicated that mergers would only take place on a voluntary basis. Should we read between the lines you want, in the end, thirteen CNFPT branches and thirteen management centres, on the basis of volunteerism, that is, at a slower pace? Is this the objective that you pursue and legislate by ordinances not for you the way to move rather masked in order to prevent each other from mobilizing? I don't think that's the case, but it'll be better by saying it. Then, are you planning to create new public service training schools? Are you planning, for certain trades for which there are no - or for which there are few - initial training courses? Thus, for those who pass the territorial attaché competition, ten days of compulsory training are provided, compared to six months earlier. Territorial employers asked for ten days because it was too complicated for them to wait six months for the positions to actually be filled. Shouldn't pre-assignment devices be considered? As far as the reform of the ENA and the IRAs is concerned, what exactly are you considering? We're talking about the elimination of the NAE – but I don't imagine that one day we're no longer training senior executives in the public service, even though I understand that most of them would be replaced by contractors and that, therefore, the question will no longer arise... Do you think that law-making by ordinance is the best way to succeed? For my part, I think not – hence our deletion amendment. As far as IRAs are concerned, the initial training was two years and provided for internships in the administrations, so that after the two years, a State administration officer had a solid background, including in management, team management – the subject more difficult to understand in a theoretical way only. Do you not think that there is a slight problem, whereas this training has already been reduced to a year, when we are considering reducing it to six months, with the cascade problems that this poses? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Two competitions would thus be organised per year and, as you will confirm or not, the Ministry of National Education would not wish to take care of the IRA leavers who return to it every six months, but only once a year, at the time of the September assignments. Do you not fear, therefore, that few candidates will come forward to become managers of local public educational institutions – EPLE – positions that are not the most attractive, and that far too many candidates will run for other positions? The current system has one virtue: to share the same initial training, to provide for a pre-assignment with the intermediate competition, so that ultimately there is a pool of candidates for the EPLE, who go to the end of the training and who then give satisfaction to the administration. Aren't you going to break a device that works well?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u163	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 957.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u164	This amendment to delete the article marks the opposition of members of the UDI Group, acting and independent, to the use of the ordinances, both the subject in question – in this case the various schools of training of senior officials which will serve for one in the State services and for the other in the territorial authorities – deserves a substantive debate before the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u166	This power to legislate by ordinance is of course very important for the majority. The aim is to develop synergy between schools that assist in the training of managers of the three public functions – notably the National School of Administration, the National Institute of Territorial Studies and the School of Higher Studies in Public Health – and thus to strengthen a common culture of management within the public service. The aim is also to avoid the obstacles to change that may arise from a lack of knowledge of the different administrative environments, and to facilitate geographical and functional mobilitys in order to diversify career paths and mobilitys between the three sides of the public service. I am personally very attached to it. As such, we will be very vigilant about the contributions of the upcoming Thiris mission. We are committed to two essential points: diversity and prior experience in the field. There was much talk of diversity in the preparatory work: social diversity – we need to be concerned about where the candidates come from in these great schools – professional diversity – civil servants in other public functions and from other professional backgrounds must be able to be prepared for these competitions; Finally, diversity as a means of promoting, as the text provides, equality between women and men. Consideration should also be given to the question of the preparatory classes. Second, it is important, in order to best prepare orders, to link access to very high responsibilities with prior experience in the field, in the territories, or as an official in an administration. This seems essential to me in order to be able to claim higher responsibilities in the public service of the State at a later stage. Finally, the aim is to promote the professional development of the most vulnerable workers, by making it easier for them to gain access to qualifications. The scope of authorisation, although broad, is, however, sufficiently precise for me to give an opinion against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u168	Unfavorable opinion, too. I will try to answer Mr Bernalicis. We believe that the order will give us time for consultation and, if necessary, for the conclusions or recommendations of Mr Thirez's report to be incorporated. I have heard and can understand the arguments about form – I have already had the opportunity to say so during the discussion of Article 5. I myself have been a Member of Parliament for ten years, and I know very well that parliamentarians are not fanatical supporters of the ordinances – that is the least we can say. They were asked to empower the Government to legislate by ordinances 170 times during Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium and 274 times under François Hollande's. It must be noted that the current government also legislates by ordinances, although it is far from equalling the figures achieved in previous legislatures. I made a commitment before the committee to have a discussion with the members of all the groups on the preparation of these orders, and I will do so. On substance and empowerment, I share the rapporteur's arguments – I will not go back to that. I will try to answer the many questions you have asked, Mr Bernalicis, but you will forgive me if I am not quite exhaustive. Are we planning to create new public service schools? This is not the case, but perhaps the case will arise in the future, depending on the needs. In any case, at the moment, we do not have any plans to set up schools in the boxes. Do we follow a logic of systematic alignment of all schools? No. You mentioned the reform of the IRA, which will be in place at the beginning of the year. We are working with the Ministry of National Education to avoid the pitfall you mentioned. Another question was whether the Government wished the CNFPT to be headed by a public industrial and commercial establishment. The answer is no. Does the Government intend to question the level of resources of this institution, in one sense or another? The answer is also negative. Do we want the CNFPT to be organised on the basis of the new regional map? Yes, but with the flexibility to be present in the territories. Today, the CNFPT is subdivided into twenty-nine interdepartmental delegations and twelve interregional coordinations, which organize the work of interdepartmental delegations. The dissymmetry between the territorial organization and that of the CNFPT is not exclusively attributable to the latter. In fact, the territorial division of this centre also depends on regulations, which regulate the periods and arrangements for redistribution. Finally, you have informed me of your proposals regarding the agreements between the CNFPT and the management centres. For several years, in each of the departments concerned, one of the management centres has been entrusted with a special role: that of a federating centre responsible for regional coordination. The amendments you adopted in committee reinforced the prerogatives of the federative management centre. The objective is to have a regional sharing scheme between departmental management centres. In the event of disagreement, in the event that it is impossible to agree on a scheme, the federating centre would have more prerogatives. This development, I would point out, will be carried out in good intelligence with the National Federation of Management Centres. The uniting centre will be responsible for signing the partnership agreement, on behalf of the other management centres, with the CNFPT, in its regional organization. In addition, by adopting Article 19, you have offered neighbouring departmental management centres the possibility of merging, whether or not they are in the same region – we are responding to the request that has been made. However, the objective is not to have thirteen management centres. The role of the federative centre will be strengthened: it will be the CNFPT's interlocutor in its regional organization, either in accordance with the current scheme or in view of the redistribution that I have presented earlier. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable on the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u169	Mr Alain Perea has the floor to support Amendment No. 1021.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u170	Trusting the Government, it was out of the question that I should table a deletion amendment. That being the case – I have already spoken on this point – I consider that, in view of the elements that you referred to in your replies, there was no urgency to legislate. Indeed, as you have indicated, reports are being prepared, changes are expected and reflections are under way on decentralization, which will evolve. We will therefore have additional elements for reflection. Parliamentarians probably have some comments to make about the territorial civil service, which, you understand, is dear to me. That is why I propose, through this amendment, that the Government submit to Parliament, within 18 months, a report that would allow us to have a comprehensive view of the legislative and regulatory changes needed and, on this basis, to work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u172	During the period of authorization, which the law sets at eighteen months, we will be able to work – the Government and the majority have committed themselves to this – towards the ratification of future ordinances. In particular, we will be able to participate in the work of the mission led by Frédéric Thiriez, the President of the Republic having given his green light for the participation of parliamentarians. This will allow us to reflect on these issues so that, within a year and a half, we can be in action, rather than delaying it by an additional 18 months. This in-between seems reasonable to me, I ask you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u174	I would also ask you to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'd be unfavorable. As I have told you, we will have a time for consultation. It is useful that we study this subject and look at a number of topics, in particular the common culture. I reiterate the commitment to involve Members of Parliament, but also the CNFPT, which is the first concerned for the territorial part, in these reflections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u175	Mr Perea, do you also withdraw Amendment No 1022?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u176	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u177	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 258.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u178	Although not an unconditional prescription, I find that the one we are debating has a real interest and scope. However, I would like us to clarify the terms of the authorization. Indeed, in paragraph 2, the word "conciliation" seems a little too vague to me. I propose that, with regard to our schools and training centres, we use the terms "coordination" and "cooperation" to prepare the ground. This will enable us, among other things, to prepare a report that will help foster agreement among public service executives. We all know the local realities; We would all like a prefect and a director of RSA – the regional health agency – to communicate better, so that a DGS – the Director General of Services – will immediately understand what the Director of an RSA tells him. This implies that they use the same language, that they know each other, that they have a common network. Things would be better, not because they would maintain some connivance, but because they would have common references. "Coordination and co-operation" of the institutions would seem to me to be more precise than "reconciling".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u180	Dear colleague, here we have more than nuances of meaning. I believe that "reconciling" goes beyond "coordination and co-operation". In fact, the underlying idea of the Thiris mission is to merge several schools. The term "reconciling" therefore seems more appropriate to me. The purpose of the text which Parliament will be proposed to ratify should be closer to the organisation of a rapprochement than to the application of a form of coordination. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u182	The term "convergence" opens up a wider scope than those of "coordination" and "cooperation", which would not allow structural mutualization to be envisaged. I therefore share the rapporteur's semantic remark. I would add that the amendment to paragraph 2 – i.e., 1° – of section 22 cannot, de facto, result in the amendment of paragraph 3 – i.e., 2° – whose scope and objectives are different. Indeed, paragraph 3 is more specifically intended to improve not only the management of the career stages of Category A staff members, but also, more specifically, their initial and continuing training arrangements. The adoption of your amendment would therefore create difficulties in drafting, given the reference from one paragraph to the other. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u183	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u184	Today, the Prefect meets regularly with the Regional Action Committee to organize collective inter-ministerial action at local level. The difficulties therefore arise not only from tubular issues, because the director of the SRA would not understand what the prefect or rector of the academy would say to him. There is already a culture of joint action, inter-ministerial, at the local level, carried by the prefects. It is also surprising that the prefectural body is more managed by the Minister of the Interior than by the Prime Minister; one could consider linking it to the services of the Prime Minister, which would, it is true, be a small big bang in the operation of the administration; I'm leaving it out. You intend to harmonize the initial trainings. Let's see what has been done in a number of administrative schools, especially the one I know best, to get there: the Regional Institute of Administration – IRA. It provided a single, homogeneous, uniform training; then the duration of the training was shortened by one year. The "universes" were then created within the IRAs; mid-term, after six months, a form of internal mini-competition leads to a pre-assignment, either in central administration or in decentralised administration, or in national education, within the framework of specific arrangements, in particular to prepare for the function of managing steward in EPLE – local public educational institutions. Why has this reform been accomplished? Because there are specificities and needs inherent in each position, including within an interdepartmental body – that of administrative attachés. It could have been said that all interdepartmental administrative officers are multi-competent, multi-skilled, and that good initial training would suffice. In two years, it was perhaps possible to be trained at all. An administrative officer may be required to manage an office of human resources, an accounting department, to carry out management control and to ensure the implementation of public policies. He's kind of a character to do everything. It was recognized that this was not the best way to do it, that it was better to specialize in training, to allow for a better job, before focusing on continuing training. At the time when the administrative attaché takes up his position in one of these "universes", he undergoes a short specific training, for example in the field of human resources or accounting. His asset is to be a coach, a potential team leader. That there is a common basis for several public functions – that various students be brought together during the first two months of training – why not. However, we will not be able to harmonize everything. That is not desirable. The specificities of each other must be maintained. So far, every time the students have been harmonized, grouped together, mutualised, the specificities have been addressed in a joint training programme, before going backwards to reintroduce the latter. This yo-yo movement should be avoided once and for all. So far, training time has been reduced, and I do not see how, in doing so, we can harmonize while maintaining specificities. Will there be new public service schools? Is there a prospect of preparing students for new jobs? We know, for example, that the needs of computer scientists and programmers are essential to administration – because everyone today uses software. However, there is no specialized training, no direction given at the inter-ministerial level to design software for all administrations, although this would be extremely useful and would contribute to our independence and sovereignty. Instead, we go through the GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft – which we try to tax, not without difficulties. I am very pessimistic about this order on initial and continuing training, because it is, in my opinion, on a wrong basis – those, among other things, the reduction of training budgets. On the other hand, I repeat, harmonisation is not necessary, because people talk to each other at local level and know each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u185	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u186	The replies of the rapporteur and the Secretary of State seem to indicate that the government's philosophy of initial and continuing training is more limited than what we were told. Indeed, it was not clear exactly what the ordinances, which must be agreed upon, would lead to, and the Thirez report. To the extent that the Government is opposed to the amendment of Cendra Motin, which would restrict the scope opened by the initial drafting, does it intend to merge public service schools, such as the ENA – National School of Administration –, the INET – National Institute of Territorial Studies –, the IRA? What will happen, for example, to the School of Higher Studies in Public Health, which is responsible for training hospital directors? How do you interpret your answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u187	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u188	I have heard the answers, but the word "conciliation" is too broad and should not be included in paragraph 2 of the article. To remove the concept of harmonisation of initial training is not akin to coordination. It is necessary to maintain a certain specificity, because, as my colleagues have said, if a common trunk and a common culture are necessary for people to understand each other immediately – without waiting for time, by force, to allow them to do so – and share the same references, speaking of "harmonisation" is, it seems to me, going too far from a semantic point of view, preempting any proposals in the Thiriez report. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u189	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u190	Which can do the most, can do the least. We will not forbid a rapprochement, but if the Thiris mission proposes only coordination, we will be able to do so. However, if the enabling project were to speak only of coordination, but the proposed solution was reconciliation, we would not be able to implement it. I have defended in committee, as a Member of the majority, the points of vigilance I have mentioned in the House on diversity or practice on the ground. Under no circumstances do they determine the conclusions of the Thiris mission. As deputies, rapporteur of the text as far as I am concerned, we can indicate, in the authorization to legislate by order, directorates, which will in no way determine the Government's thinking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u191	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u192	I repeat my unfavorable opinion, because we want to leave the field open and not preempt the conclusions and proposals of the Thiriez report. Mr Brindeau, our intention is to develop a common culture among senior officials and a logic of diversification of employment frameworks, but above all bodies, especially large ones, and equal access to this type of managerial or supervisory functions. With regard to the questions raised by Messrs. Brindeau and Bernalicis on harmonisation, whatever the model chosen among the proposals that will be made and on which we will work, it is necessary to maintain specificities. You don't train civil administrators like you train engineers, and you don't train hospital managers like you train statisticians. In one way or another – specialization, school of application, and I use these terms because the debate is open – we need to keep specifics. This may go through rapprochements – in this case, we will explore the track – but it may also go through coordination or mutualization, with the creation of common trunks between one school or another. I therefore wish to maintain the current wording of the text, as it leaves these possibilities open.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u193	On Article 22, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 257.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u194	On the subject of not schools, but trained persons, the amendment aims to ensure that contract workers are included in the scope of training orders, so that these persons, who are now required to remain in the public service for several years, are included in the training plans of the administrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u196	Here too, we are faced with a question of semantics. The term "agents" brings together all categories: civil servants, incumbents or not, and contractual. The amendment is therefore satisfied. I ask that it be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion would be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u197	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u198	Ms. Motin, by "public agents," we target incumbents and contractors. The wording of the text satisfies your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u199	I call Mr Poulliat to support Amendment No. 1054.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u200	The initial training, which is very important, allows a new officer to understand the public environment and the public service mission that he will have to implement for many years, but it sometimes deploys blindly. This applies in particular to all staff wishing to join a new job framework by choosing mobility between the sides of the public service, even when they were in a similar job. Thus, it is not uncommon for a police officer or a gendarmerie to choose to join a municipal police force. He must then complete the extensive training of a city police officer, which is heavy and long. It is heavy for the agent himself, who must know the mayor's police power and the territorial environment, but also for the communities, who must make an investment, which is high for the smallest of them. Once the training is completed, they often see their agents reach larger communities, as the compensation schemes are much more favourable. The amendment does not change the scope of the order, but clarifies it. It calls on the Government to provide for lighter initial training, with a view to harmonization, which is that of the Ordinance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u201	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u202	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u204	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u205	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u206	I am not sure that the empowerment needs to be changed to achieve this outcome, but the issue deserves to be addressed. When I arrived at the Ministry of the Interior, I received training for newcomers, but senior administrative colleagues in another department for 20 years also had to attend to hear what their work was. In order to avoid this, the training directorates must have sufficient staff and resources to customize the training as much as possible. But in the administrations, training is still the last wheel of the coach and is similar to the bonus, like culture in some communities. It is not enough to specify the contours of training in an order; it is necessary to arm initial and continuing training services in departments and communities, and to stop meddling on budgets and means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u207	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1048.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u208	Digital irrigates entire sections of our professional and personal life. The public service does not escape, and its modernization requires a mastery of digital tools. Indeed, our citizens' access to public services increasingly takes the form of dematerialised relations, whether we welcome them or deplore them. Our country is engaged in a process of opening up public data, hampered by the lack of training of public officials in this field. The entry into force of the European Data Protection Regulation requires training of public officials. This is a major issue, which includes the process of opening up public data. The amendment proposes to include in the law the principle of digital training of public service personnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u210	The committee rejected this amendment: of course, digital is an important issue, but Article 22 does not address this issue, since its purpose is to strengthen the common culture of the three sides of the public service. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u211	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1049.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u212	The amendment is based on the same approach as the previous one. The President of the Republic has explicitly called for students to speak two European languages by 2024; This ambitious public service-wide announcement should be made, especially since public officials are in contact with people who are not perfectly Francophone. Indeed, the free movement of citizens of the European Union within the Union encourages many Europeans to settle in France; They are close to public officials without speaking French perfectly. The amendment proposes to strengthen the training of officers in foreign language proficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u214	Same argument, same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u215	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor in support of Amendment No 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u216	Mr. Secretary of State, you are planning to develop by order a substantial substantive training reform, which is intended, in particular, under paragraph 3 of the article, to amend the terms of recruitment and initial and continuing training, with a view to increasing the adaptability of officers. I ask you to ensure that the training programs enhance the knowledge of the officers of the territorial issues they will face. I am thinking of the overseas territories, of course, but not only: in the coastal or mountainous communes, there are important environmental and climatic issues. In the hospital civil service, all persons appointed in the overseas departments could, until 2017, receive specific training on the consequences of natural disasters, such as cyclones, and tropical epidemics. It is necessary that agents be prepared to integrate State bodies into particular environments, including the islands. The purpose of the amendment is to make this clarification, by inserting the words "to territorial specificities" after the word "adaptation" in paragraph 3. Behind these words, we hear all the specificities, whether geographical, cultural or historical. As my colleague Castellani pointed out, an agent transferred to Guyana must face bilingualism; Another, named in Polynesia, must capture a large territory like Europe, whose maritime space covers 5 million square kilometres. We wish to reinforce the obligation to take into account territorial specificities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u218	Semantics is important, again, since the terms "diversity of missions" include, and include, adaptation to territorial specificities. The insertion of the words "territorial specificities" would in fact reduce the scope of the text. I therefore reject this request for clarification. We do want to send senior officials to the deconcentrated departments to take stock of the reality of the territories, but the current wording of article 22 leaves no doubt about this. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, my opinion would be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u220	One may wonder whether it is appropriate to make such a clarification, and I agree with the rapporteur in this regard. Indeed, we make a commitment: mobility officials will be better accompanied when they discover territories with specific characteristics, both at the level of initial and continuing training – which will be strengthened if necessary – than from the point of view of the reception to be reserved for them in the deconcentrated services of the State. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment, for the reasons put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u221	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u222	I will support Mrs Sage's amendment, without insisting further, because her arguments were numerous and relevant. It is easy to understand how much it is necessary to strengthen the knowledge of territories, whose diversity makes for wealth and personality, for administrative officers and territorial agents. If I may, I would add that Mrs. Sage has been very wise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u223	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u224	This amendment does not tend to delete the concept of "diversity of mission". On the contrary, it is complementary since it tends to reinforce this concept. Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for having taken my request into account, and I would ask you, as part of the joint drafting of this order, to take the time to consult the Overseas Territories so that we can adapt its wording as closely as possible to the needs. I have noted your commitment to also strengthen reception within decentralized services. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u225	I put Rule 22 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u226	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 35 Against 17
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u227	I call Mr Henriet to support Amendment No. 879.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u228	This amendment is intended, on an experimental basis, to allow universities to derogate from the qualification procedure in order to recruit their teachers-researchers directly. This new procedure would allow, without abolishing the current procedure, to give universities more flexibility in the organisation of their recruitments throughout the year, while ensuring equal treatment of each case by strengthening the role of the selection committees, which are specific to each institution. Today, this scheme, costing almost EUR 5 million, does not seem entirely convincing as it mobilises a large number of research teachers every year for several months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u230	I understand the idea, but this categorical proposal has no place in the text. I suggest that you re-state it during the examination of a text that would relate to research or teaching. I invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u232	Ms Vidal, Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, will soon open a consultation on this subject with trade union organisations, the academic community and all stakeholders. We understand your remarks about the cumbersome procedures and the need to think about their relaxation, but it would be premature to take decisions today. The Minister wishes to take advantage of the consultation to deepen the topic and explore various avenues. I invite you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u233	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u234	May I ask you to suspend the meeting for five minutes?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u235	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u236	The meeting was resumed. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 855 and 910. Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 855.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u237	I have tabled a series of amendments aimed at developing learning in the public service, where there are many obstacles. Learning is a government priority, and the law for freedom to choose one's professional future, which the majority voted on, is bearing fruit: learning increased by 8% in 2018. The only exception, however, is the public service, where it stagnates: there are 10,000 contracts in 2018, compared to 12700 in 2012. This is regrettable, especially since the range of occupations represented in the public service is important. The mobilization must be complete: the state and the communities must be exemplary in this regard. My first amendment therefore proposes to amend the Public Health Code in order to remove a barrier to the development of learning in the hospital public service, by legally securing the recruitment of apprentices and their training in the professions of nurse, massager-kinesistherapist, pedicure-podologist, orthoptist and orthophonist. It avoids any confusion between the status of the apprentice and that of an official under ordinary law and, consequently, the risk of denouncing the illegal exercise of a regulated profession, provided that the apprentice intervenes only in the course of his training and in the course of his curriculum. Learning is of great interest to the health professions, as it diversifys the profiles recruited and promotes the retention of young people in the territory. The hospital public service also has a number of occupations in tension, which is why it is particularly important to develop learning there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u238	Amendment No 910 by Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u239	It is in favour of these two identical amendments. I am convinced of their merits, and the Government has made itself a very high priority, throughout its system, including in the State civil service, to facilitate the learning path, the recruitment of apprentices and the integration of these apprentices trained in the civil service. This last point will certainly be the subject of reflection in the context of the application of Article 22, which we have voted on, on access to the public service. It goes without saying that we particularly want his apprentices to be included in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u240	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u241	Favourable, like that of the rapporteur. I would add that Mrs Brulebois's amendment removes the risk of litigation, particularly with regard to the exercise of no title in the medical and, in particular, paramedical field. This is therefore an opportunity to remove barriers to learning development in the three sides of the public service, but particularly in the hospital public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u242	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u243	This amendment seems to me to present difficulties of several kinds. Its aim, first of all, is categorical; I had understood, in the light of the rapporteur's fairly constant answers, that this text was trying not to deal with categorical questions, but to stick to fundamentals. In addition to this issue of form, a specific problem, on the merits, is of greater concern: you are dealing with regulated professions, which have been the subject of provisions contained in the Public Health System Transformation Bill. However, this proposal seems to me to be difficult to reconcile with some of its devices, in particular that of re-certification. But the most important, and the most serious, is that this proposal does not seem to have been the subject of any consultation, even minimal: we have been receiving, for a few moments, messages from representatives of these professions, which first signal their surprise, then their concern, particularly on one point: that under which apprentices – future professionals, but still in training – would occupy tomorrow, in medical-social or hospital establishments, posts which, unfortunately, are vacant today because of the lack of numbers in these professions in tension. Could you at least give us details of the intervention framework of these apprentices, if the measure were to be confirmed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u244	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u245	Some additional comments, but my colleague Mr Brindeau has already said a lot. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is very much in favour of learning and wants to develop it, but two points seem to deserve our vigilance. On training, I will not repeat what has been said, but it is important, particularly in the hospital public service, not to mix the genres: everyone must occupy the place for which he or she has been trained. Finally, a small observation of form: we have just considered a text that transforms the health system, and we do not understand why this amendment has just been tabled here, although perhaps it could have been discussed in a better-trained forum on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u246	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u247	A clarification in response to Mr.Brindeau: this provision concerns the entire public service hospital, and is therefore not categorical.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u248	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u249	It is not categorical, indeed, but aims to develop learning in all sides of the public service. The amendment has the merit of legally securing the practice of apprentices in the hospital public service, but it is obviously in agreement with the Ministry of Health, even if I hear Mrs Vichnievsky's question about the timetable for examining the texts. The second point is that it is not possible for an apprentice to replace a medical or paramedical professional. There are now just under 2000 apprentices, i.e. people in training, in the paramedical professions. A number of paramedical vocational courses wish to develop apprenticeships. With this amendment, we are giving hospital employers the opportunity, without imposing any obligation on them. Be quiet, if I may say so, about securing the intervention frameworks of apprentices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u250	I have before me two amendments, Nos 229 and 232, which can be presented together. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u251	We are all very much in favour of the inclusion of more apprentices in the public service. Yet they must find an outlet, and preferably in the public service, if they wish to continue in this direction. Amendment No 229 therefore proposes the creation of a fourth way: a competition specifically reserved for young apprentices in the public service, which would enable them to make use of the skills they have acquired in the public service during their apprenticeship. As a back-up solution, Amendment No 232 aims to ensure that, after an apprenticeship of at least six months, they have access to preparation for a competition, in order to help them pursue their careers in the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u253	Article 159 of the Equality and Citizenship Act of 27 January 2017 already meets your expectations, it seems to me: apprenticeship periods in the private or public sector are now counted as professional experience. The objective of this measure is twofold: to diversify the way in which the public service is recruited, on the one hand, and to encourage learning, on the other. This was not the case before this law: years of learning in the private or public sector were not integrated. Apprenticeship was regarded by the Labour Code as a form of alternating education, not as a professional activity. I therefore believe that your amendment is largely satisfactory, and in any event refers, in substance, to Rule 22, which we have voted for. Access to the public service will also be the subject of orders. On Amendment No 232, I would like to let the Secretary of State answer you more precisely, because I believe that he is carrying out work on this subject. I ask you to withdraw your two amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u255	On Amendment No 229, which proposes the creation of a reserved competition, the rapporteur referred to the equality law, which does provide for several arrangements. This text also provides that, after their apprenticeship, apprentice graduates can integrate the PrAB programme, which is the programme for access to Category A and B jobs, with the possibility of tenure and occupation of the post at the end of the career. It is a different formula, but it allows for a follow-up to an apprenticeship. Your aim of creating a fourth path is faced with a legal difficulty: whereas the CSDs and the CDIs of the public service are contracts of public law, apprenticeship contracts are contracts of private law, which prevents us from assimilated them to services performed, i.e. open to internal competitions. This is one of the subjects on which I hope that we can move forward as part of our reflection on the organisation of competitions with all employers and trade union organisations. My initial idea, which was legally upset, was to consider that obtaining an apprenticeship diploma could be considered exempt from the first group of tests. This is contrary to the principles of equal access to public employment and equality before the competition. We must therefore find another solution, by a third way or by appropriate competitions, but not necessarily in the terms of your amendment. That's what we're going to do. As for the preparation devices, they are already open. But access to these preparations will, of course, also depend on the competitions that can be organised. The current PrAB system has good results, but is not yet used enough, as I told you earlier. It must therefore be promoted. As regards the most important of your amendments, No 229, on the access of apprentices to tenure, it is an open site, with the legal difficulties I have mentioned, particularly with regard to the taking into account of the years of apprenticeship. That is why I am asking you to withdraw these amendments, to the benefit of the work that we are about to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u256	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u257	As the Government has begun work on this subject, which is in line with my proposal, I withdraw my amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u258	I have before me an amendment No 1141, which is the subject of three sub-amendments. [[Laughs]] As this amendment has been tabled after the deadline has expired, an additional ten minutes for each group and five minutes for non-attached Members shall be allocated for the discussion of the additional rule, pursuant to Rule 55(6) of the Rules of Procedure. This is one of the aspects of scheduled legislative time, but, ladies and gentlemen, no one is obliged to use his credit! The Secretary of State has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u259	The Government is taking up an amendment tabled by a parliamentarian but declared inadmissible under article 40 of the Constitution. We support its objective of increasing the use of learning in the territorial public service by strengthening the role of the CNFPT in identifying trades and skills for learning in local and regional authorities and in funding the training of apprentices employed by the communities. The costs of training apprentices will be covered by an agreement between the CNFPT, the territorial authority and the training centre for apprentices – CFA – concerned, and may not be less than 75% of these training costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u260	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support sub-amendment No. 1167.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u261	The purpose of this sub-amendment is to mark the opposition of members of the Socialist and related groups to the Government's amendment, tabled out of time and without impact assessment, which aims, as the Secretary of State has said, to compel the CNFPT to make a contribution to the apprentice training centres, which may not be less than 75 per cent of the cost of training apprentices employed by the communities and some of their public institutions. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the method used: it is a subject which deserves better than an amendment which is considered under such conditions. The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future has forgotten to settle the issue of apprenticeship training in the territorial public service: today it is a fact, it is not known who will pay. The recently adopted rules do not apply to local authorities which, on the one hand, are not dependent on any skills operator and, on the other hand, do not pay the apprenticeship tax. The Government's amendment seeks, in order to redress this blunder, to divert the funds allocated for the continuous training of staff from the contribution of 0.9 per cent of the wage bill to the benefit of apprenticeship. These are two very different objects, and one can foresee an effect of eviction. Let us go into detail: this contribution of 0.9% pays about 350 million euros, of which 300 million euros are allocated to training stricto sensu; 920000 staff are trained during the year, over 2.2 million days. At one point, there are 14000 apprentices in all in the territorial civil service; There are about 7,000 to 7,500 new apprentices each year. The average cost of training an apprentice is approximately EUR 5500 per person per year; In total, this amounts to EUR 77 million per year. If local and regional authorities are to finance 75% of this amount, they will have to pay EUR 55 million. If we look at the first figures from the work of the branches, which have formulated cost proposals for 3000 diplomas, validated by France's skills, the cost would rather be €7596. The total amount would then be 80 million euros. And if the Government achieves its target of 20,000 apprentices – a goal that we all agree – then it would be 114 million. You understand that if these sums are taken out of these 350 million euros, then it is simply less territorial officials who will receive training: every year, 200000 to 250,000 agents would be left out. It would therefore be wise and welcome not to vote for the Government's amendment. I am asking for the withdrawal of this document, in order to work seriously on the funding of learning in the territorial public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u262	I have before me two sub-amendments, Nos 1164 and 1165, which may be presented in a consolidated format. The floor is open to Mr. Eric Poulliat to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u263	The Government's amendment deserves our full attention: it proposes, by strengthening the role of the CNFPT, to develop learning in the civil service; It is a major subject, particularly in the territorial civil service. However, the contribution requested from the CNFPT, with a minimum of 75% of the training costs, and an effective rate fixed by agreement, is problematic: the sum would amount to 55 million euros or even more than 100 million euros if the target of 20,000 apprentices is met. However, no new revenue is foreseen for the CNFPT: in the absence of specific funding, the cost of training would be at the expense of other training provided each year by the CNFPT, for almost 1 million territorial agents, during 2.2 million training days. Subamendment No 1164 therefore proposes to replace the floor rate of the CNFPT contribution of 75% and the fixing of the effective rate by an agreement with a fixed rate. The CNFPT would thus clearly define the rate of its contribution. Sub-amendment No. 1165 proposes to replace with a rate of 30 per cent the 75 per cent rate provided for by the Government's amendment, which, in the light of the CNFPT budget and in the absence of a new resource, is excessive. These two proposals aim to seek a compromise solution to the problems posed by the amendment; they will be able to evolve during the parliamentary shuttle, in consultation with the CNFPT and the territorial employers. Where appropriate, a new recipe for the CNFPT may also be sought, always in consultation with the CNFPT and the territorial employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u264	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u265	The committee did not consider this amendment or the sub-amendments. In my personal capacity, I am expressing an opinion in favour of the amendment which has been amended by sub-amendment No 1164. In substance, it seems to me that the CNFPT is currently insufficiently accompanying apprenticeship contracts, even though this is part of its mission. We cannot, I believe, welcome collectively, whatever budgetary decisions will have to be made to implement this provision, that the CNFPT is encouraged to fund learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u266	What is the Government's opinion on the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u267	The CNFPT's learning tasks were extended by the Law of 20 April 2016 on ethics and the rights and obligations of civil servants. Today, to use euphemism, we see that this law is not being applied optimally. The Government and the majority want the CNFPT to effectively accompany apprentices. That is why this amendment was adopted by the Government; That is also why we wish to open the discussion at this stage. I therefore express an opinion in favour of Amendment No 1164, which removes a first uncertainty. On the other hand, I am against sub-amendments Nos 1165 and 1167.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u268	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u269	Communities do not pay the apprenticeship tax and do not receive allowances for training costs, but I would like to emphasize the interest in them receiving young people in apprenticeship. They don't take enough. Yet they bring them a lot, a new vision, new knowledge... Those who employ apprentices are very happy! After a few months, apprentices provide great service to the community; their work is effective, and they ensure the transfer of knowledge within the community or administration. It would be a shame to talk only about the cost of apprentices. If we want more apprentices in local and regional authorities, we must also show how much interest these young people represent for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u270	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u271	This is one more illustration of the haste in which you force yourself to legislate! It's a real problem. Without going into the details of the arguments exchanged, I stress that this measure will necessarily have consequences on the budget of the continuous training of agents – 200000 to 250,000 agents would be affected, according to estimates, but such a measure would have deserved an impact assessment! How could we make the decision today to cut this budget, when the public service is faced with new demands, while, on the contrary, it needs more training to be able to adapt to new challenges, which is its trademark? It's not serious! I would add that you organize the mix of genres, combining initial and continuing training. Again, it's not serious! Parliament has passed a bad law on vocational training; Instead of trying to adapt this bad law to the public service, you should learn from your experiences. Don't increase the confusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u272	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u273	No one here disputes that it is interesting to promote learning in the public service, and in particular in the territorial public service; Nor does anyone dispute that there are today, for public employers, obstacles to the reception of apprentices, whereas for many trades it is an excellent field, in particular to enter the territorial public service. The question is the question of financing: who should pay for the training of these apprentices? As Mr Vallaud has explained in detail, the solution envisaged by the Government with this amendment will have a significant impact on the functioning of the CNFPT and its ability to finance continuing training. The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future has, as has been said, completely left aside the public sector. If this project were to be adopted, at the very least the CNFPT should be able to sign a convention with France, now responsible for coordinating the financing of apprenticeship in the private sector, allowing it to recover funds so far devoted to apprenticeship for the regions, for both the private and the public sectors. This would ease the CNFPT's burden. If not, communities will need to be more involved in the funding of the NFPTC. This amounts to an increase of 0.9%, in consultation with communities and despite the budgetary constraints they face. To avoid such a solution, funding should be secured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u274	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u275	To continue in the direction envisaged by the Government and the majority is to persist in error.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u276	They're not a mistake anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u277	On the one hand, there is talk of initial training, from which a certain method of financing derives, and, on the other hand, of continuing training, financed by a contribution, at a rate of 0.9%. By this amendment, the Government claims to promote learning. By competing with the funding of continuing training, it risks leading some communities to arbitrate between learning and training of its agents, and thus to reduce learning in the territorial public service, as the right to training is not circumventable. By this measure, you will either not achieve your learning objectives in the territorial public service, or you will deprive up to 250,000 local public officials of their right to continuing education. I would therefore like to make sure, Madam rapporteur and Mr Secretary of State, that you have taken the measure of the amendment that you are about to vote on. Until then, at least until the last apprenticeship law, the regions financed this component. The CNFPT can sign a convention with France powers to recover this money, which was dedicated to it. Otherwise, there will be an eviction effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u278	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u279	Some in this House are not very supportive of extending apprenticeship at all costs, in particular because it offers an age-differentiated level of remuneration, without a clear understanding of the reasons for this. It is therefore not the most virtuous system that exists for all trades. With regard to funding, I asked the Secretary of State about the 0.9% contribution to finance the CNFPT, as well as about its future missions and scope, as it appears that the revenue collected will have to be used to carry out an additional mission. Yet, in another article, you say that, in order to promote mobility between the territorial civil service and the state civil service, and to avoid any blocking, the state will take over the special assignment account – CAS – Pensions. The cost of this measure would be several million euros. If learning is a mission of general interest, if you want to free up the energies in this field, why don't you decide that the State will also pay for this cost of training? These amendments drafted at the last minute, outside the deadlines, do not respect the consistency of the text, from one article to another. The wisest would therefore be to withdraw this amendment and to open discussions with the CNFPT and the trade union organisations. Some interventions praised the merits of learning and challenged any challenge. I do not believe that the CNFPT wants to pay for this training cost, nor does it want to pay for the apprentices. That's not the point. He will do what he is told to do, because he must fulfill the task imposed on him by the law. If the scope of the missions was therefore not discussed, the question of funding was raised. Fungibility certainly makes it possible to take excellent measures, such as the one referred to in this amendment. But this support will be at the expense of other CNFPT missions, which, however, need to be deployed. The demand for continuing training is considerable in this country. You cannot at the same time mention the imperatives of digital technology and the mutability of the public service, and explain that there will be less money to carry out these tasks, because of the arrival of apprentices in the territorial public service. This is a major difficulty, estimated at several million euros. It would therefore be wiser to withdraw this amendment and discuss it again with the people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u280	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u281	The LR Group, very attentive to the comments made by the opposition groups, will not vote for this amendment. In substance, the CNFPT can certainly contribute to the financing of learning, but it would be far too heavy to require it to participate in such proportions. This would result in arbitration measures, which, as Mr Vallaud said, might run counter to the continuing training of territorial officials, who need it. This decision could also lead the CNFPT to request an additional contribution from local authorities, which already bear sufficient burdens and objectives, including those set by the Government following the Cahors agreements. There is no continuous increase in demand from local authorities. Secretary of State, therefore, we believe that you should withdraw this amendment, in order to take the time to discuss, to have impact studies carried out or to meet with community associations. The aim is to deepen the subject together and to reach agreement on a proposal shared between the State, the CNFPT and local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u283	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u284	[[Smile. – "Congratulation! » on the benches of the LR group]] Upon my return from my constituency, barely entered my office, I hear live on television this proposal of the Government and, fortunately, the intervention of our friend and colleague, Boris Vallaud. We cannot be absent five minutes from the Chamber without the majority making a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u285	And it's been two years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u286	It is not possible to promote learning at the expense of continuing training for public servants. You need to take the time to think, in order to find the right methods and budget arguments to finance learning. We all want the public service to use learning more, but not to the detriment of continuing education. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment and take the time to reflect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u287	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u288	On this important subject, I wanted to give two clarifications and draw a perspective. The first is the question of initial and continuing training within the CNFPT. The CNFPT already provides initial training, not only because it manages the National Institute of Territorial Studies – INET – for category A+ officials, but also because it has this competence in terms of learning since the 2016 law. In fact, he himself runs two centres for training apprentices – CFA. Therefore, I do not believe that strengthening the CNFPT's learning funding obligations would create confusion between initial and continuing training. My second point is to highlight an older difficulty in funding learning, particularly in the territorial public service. The CNFPT has resources, which are calculated on the basis of a payroll contribution and are paid by all territorial employers. This example is unique. Each increase in payroll, including when we resume certain protocols, such as the Career Path, Career and Remuneration (PPCR) protocol, translates mechanically into an increase in the base of this contribution. The contribution rate, set at 1%, was lowered to 0.9% under Nicolas Sarkozy's mandate, before being raised to 1% on the occasion of the vote on the 2013 finance bill on a proposal by Jean Arthuis. Finally, in the 2016 Finance Act, Marylise Lebranchu proposed to reduce it to 0.9%. The CNFPT has often referred to the difficulties it may face. This contribution from the local authorities to the CNFPT in the area of continuing training and apprenticeship is the only contribution that has been made by the communities since the 2016 Act. In comparison, in the private sector, the overall contribution rate for continuing training and apprenticeship varies from 1.23% to 1.68%, according to the agreements of the branch to which the company belongs. Today, under the apprenticeship reform, registered joint collecting bodies – OPCA – from the private sector receive, among other things, the apprenticeship tax, to the tune of 0.68%, previously allocated to the regions. Our situation, which could be suitable for many, at least in the public sector, was therefore rather paradoxical. It led each region to pursue different learning financing policies because they had expertise in this area. Finally, in order to finance learning in the territorial public service, the regions used the proceeds of the tax paid by private sector companies, on the understanding that communities do not pay the apprenticeship tax. Today, learning reform points to the fact that, for a long time, with varying scope and intensity from region to region, funding for learning in the FPT was provided by private sector revenues. It is important to stress this, as it shows that, sometimes, systems that seem to work hide some defects. This also explains that the policies of each of the regions could be very different. We are committed to ensuring that the 2016 law is fully implemented. As part of the parliamentary shuttle, this must lead us to work on two points. First, it will be a matter of freeing up the means to finance learning in the convention that will unite the CNFPT and the management centres, at a regional and, in part, global level. The second topic of discussion concerns the rate of funding. We are in favour of an important rate, which remains open to discussion. That is why we cannot support the proposal for sub-amendments Nos 1167 and 1165, bringing to 25 or 30 % the contribution that the CNFPT will make to the CFA. For all these reasons, we give a favourable opinion to Subamendment No 1164 and to Subamendments Nos 1165 and 1167.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u289	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u290	The Secretary of State indicated that with a contribution rate of 0.9%, the local authorities only provide financial assistance for continuing training and apprenticeship. This is true in theory, but, in reality, it is well known that local and regional authorities are increasingly obliged to call on training bodies outside the CNFPT. In fact, it is not always able to meet the demands of local authorities, for various reasons, such as the technicality of training, or the lack of participants in a territory. The actual contribution of the organizations is therefore greater. With respect to the funding of the CNFPT, it is true that it benefits from measures such as the PPCR protocol, which mechanically increase the payroll, or at least the operating expenses of the communities devoted to the payroll. However, we know the financial strategy of the State, which first severely reduced its allocations and which, today, marks the evolution of expenditure by contracts resulting from the Cahors agreement. In the short and medium term, a contraction in the expenditure of all local and regional authorities is taking place with regard to human resources, which has the effect of mechanically compressing the resources of the CNFPT. Therefore, the risk of eviction remains. Unlike Mr Bernalicis, I support the development of learning. For some trades, apprenticeship offers good training, in no case discount training. The remuneration of the apprentice varies, in fact, according to age – this can be questionable – but the very principle of apprenticeship cannot be contested in a number of trades. If the Government wishes to guarantee favourable conditions for the development of learning in the civil service, in particular its territorial side, that it will contribute either to the CNFPT or to the local authorities – a kind of allocation dedicated to learning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u291	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u292	There is no confusion between continuing and initial training: the contribution of 0.9% is devoted to continuing training, which does not detract from the initial training missions of the CNFPT. You yourself stressed the complexity of the funding of learning, and you were right to do so, it deserves clarification. However, you do not provide any additional clarity. No new contributions are planned to help the CNFPT bear the cost of EUR 55 million. Tell us if you are thinking of increasing the contribution to 1% again. You are referring to the issues that will have to be decided during the parliamentary shuttle. I would again suggest that we resolve the difficulties ahead, so that we withdraw the amendment in order to give room for discussion and introduce amendments in a new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u293	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u294	I have listened to you, minister, and you do not provide answers to the questions raised, including by yourself. Your proposal does not solve the problem posed by the transfer of competence in the field of learning, which has the effect of depriving it of the funding granted so far by the regions, particularly for the territorial civil service. We're legislating in haste. I am against Amendment No 855 on the development of learning for the professions of nurse, masseur-kinesitherapist, pedicure-podologist, orthoptist and orthophonist.We make decisions with great lightness. I learn – perhaps you will contradict me – that no discussion has been initiated. In the context of the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system, this topic has never been addressed. You open a new way of training for these professions without having at any time consulted anyone. It is symptomatic of a bill that is not ready, not successful: it is enough to count the number of orders it provides to convince itself, but these amendments are an additional demonstration of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u295	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u296	Mr Vallaud, the contribution of 0.9%, which is a compulsory contribution on the payroll, constitutes a revenue from the CNFPT for all its activities; It is not influenced by one type of training or another. Mr. Brindeau, you're right. The rate of 0.9% is the compulsory contribution. We all know that communities are using other providers, as you described. The report by Jacques Savatier and Arnaud de Belenet on the training and career management of employees of local and regional authorities referred to this and stressed the need to improve the organisation of the continuing training offer throughout the territory. I repeat, I hope that this amendment will be adopted. The shuttle must allow us to clarify two points: on the one hand, flows and, on the other, rates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u297	Clarify a priori!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u298	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u299	I warn you, ladies and gentlemen: a shuttle on the so-called anti-casseurs bill was also promised to you and it never came. But you do what you want, you're free to vote. I would like to dispel a possible misunderstanding with Mr Brindeau about learning. I am not opposed to absolute learning, but I disapprove of all-out learning. Today, apprentices are needed everywhere, in all areas. I was confronted with it before I became a member of Parliament. Since the unemployment figures had to be lowered at the end of the previous quinquennium, I was asked – at the time I was head of the office at the Ministry of the Interior – to take an apprentice from my team. I accepted, even though our department was dealing with public accounting using the Chorus software and had to go quickly to close by the end of the calendar year. I did not fully understand the relevance of such an initiative. I recognize the virtues of learning for certain occupations, but we will still have to go back to age pay, which is not an insignificant subject – I am not convinced that it is justified to pay a more expensive hour of work for an apprentice who is sixteen years old than for an apprentice who is only fifteen years old. Regardless of the fungibility between in-service training and initial training, you impose an additional expense on the CNFPT in front of which you do not expect any additional recipe – I am simplifying to the extreme. As a result, CNFPT will have fewer resources to carry out its missions as a whole. Do you take such a choice at the turn of an amendment tabled out of time, without any discussion, you who are usually the singers of dialogue, consultation, round tables of the yards? Your device has not passed to the mill of such a process. Rather than vote on the amendment as it stands and reserve the right to return to it until the next reading, I think it is wiser to withdraw it and discuss it with the parties concerned. For my part, I am rather in favour of increasing the contribution of communities by 1%, as well as an increase in the FB in order to solve the equation. But perhaps you have other mechanisms to propose, such as direct state ownership? That's to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u300	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 823.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u301	The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future has in particular increased the attractiveness of learning for young people. A similar dynamic should be created in the public service. However, the development of learning means motivating both public administrations and young people. There may also be a need to improve the information of those who are not fully aware of the opportunities offered by the Public Service. Finally, they must find an interest in it. In order to encourage the development of apprenticeships in the public service, the amendment aims to take into account the seniority acquired by the apprentice during his or her alternance training, in particular for access to competitions. This provision would bring the civil service closer to the private sector in which the seniority of apprentices is taken into account when they are hired at the end of their training.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u303	I confirm the opinion against this amendment by the committee. You wish that the seniority acquired by the apprentice during his alternance training can be taken into account in the case of access to the contests. The rule is that the services taken into account in opening up access to a closed competition should be carried out under public law contracts. However, apprenticeship contracts are governed by private law. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u304	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u305	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u306	Has the amendment been withdrawn, Mrs Brulebois?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u307	Yes. I had tabled another amendment which was declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u308	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 790.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u309	This amendment proposes to make mandatory annual agreements of commitments relating to the development of learning in the public service, which would be concluded between the State and associations representing local authorities – the Association des régions de France, ARF, the Assemblée des départements de France, ADF, France urbaine, the Assemblée des communautés de France, the Association des maires de France. In particular, these conventions aim to anticipate the development of public employment. They oblige local and regional authorities to commit themselves through forward plans for the recruitment of apprentices. Such agreements deserve to be developed in the light of the positive feedback on the learning agreements concluded between the State and the ARF in 2015 and between the State and the ADF in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u311	The first challenge is to fully implement the provisions of Article 12(1) of the 1984 Act on the role of the CNFPT in the development of apprenticeship. We have discussed it extensively at the moment. As you point out, there are already agreements for learning between the state and the ARF in 2015 and between the state and the ADF in 2017. So I'm asking you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u313	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u314	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u315	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u316	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 796.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u317	The aim of this amendment is to experiment within local and regional authorities with structures for the management of learning in the public service, which will ensure the best match between apprenticeship offers, young people's demands and places in the CFA. These structures would provide an effective lever for developing learning in the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u318	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u319	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u321	The adoption of the Government's amendment is in line with your objective, as it recalls and reinforces the competence of the CNFPT in this area, including the identification and publicity of places available in local authorities. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u322	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u323	The amendment was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u324	Say it right now, it'll save us time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u325	When you submit amendments, we do not comment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u326	But we don't take them away!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u327	We have a right to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u328	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 803.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u329	As local authorities say, the major obstacle to the development of apprenticeships in the public service is the impossibility of hiring their apprentices at the end of their training. Access to public employment remains subject to the success of a competition. In order to overcome this obstacle and to increase the employment of young people, the amendment tends to experiment with access routes to the civil service reserved for former apprentices in the most relevant local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u331	This proposal is satisfied by Article 159 of the Equality and Citizenship Act of 27 January 2017: periods of apprenticeship in the private or public sector are counted as work experience. The objective of this measure is twofold: to diversify the way in which the public service is recruited, on the one hand, and to encourage learning, on the other. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u332	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u333	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u334	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u335	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u336	Change your assistant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u337	We have the right to speak in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u338	I call Mr Poulliat to support Amendment No. 1052, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u339	It aims to stimulate a debate – some are obviously eager to debate, so let's discuss this amendment! – on the advisability of formalising category A+, a term already frequently used by the administrations themselves but having no legal existence at this stage in the general status of civil servants. As noted in the joint mission of the General Inspectorate of Administration, General Economic and Financial Control and the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development in its report on senior management and head of state, submitted to the Prime Minister in July 2014, the notions of "senior and senior management" and "category A+" – which correspond to those commonly referred to as "senior officials" – are blurred. However, the concept of "category A+" is frequently used by the administrations themselves, in particular the DGAFP, to distinguish within category A the bodies, the managers and the employment statutes of the senior management and the executive. In February 2015, in an article on senior management and leadership in the three sides of the public service, the DGAFP estimated that there were almost 100,000 employees in the A+ category in the public service of the State – about 8% of all category A employees in that category –, 11,000 in the territorial civil service and 5,000 in the hospital civil service. Administrations use the term "A+" as it is particularly useful and relevant to designate agents who certainly carry out various tasks – ranging from management and management to functions of expertise, control and inspection, or referring to jurisdictional tasks for magistrates of administrative and judicial orders – but all have in common to be placed at the highest hierarchical levels, to direct contact with elected officials and public employers, and to be forced to exercise important responsibilities. As a result, their action is likely to have a major influence on the strategic formulation and implementation of public policies by the Government. Other countries have already recognized the specific status of these agents, including the United Kingdom and the United States. Beyond that, the definition of category A+ would represent a step forward for the staff members concerned, who, because of their responsibilities, have special needs, including mobility and career planning. The same ambition had led to the creation, in 2010, of a new grade with functional access, in order to improve the careers of the most experienced senior officials. Finally, the creation of category A+ would improve the transparency – an important point in our debate – of the appointment processes for these positions, which would ensure their accessibility to all and the diversity of recruitments, as well as the manner in which they are paid. The definition of a legible, homogeneous and efficient compensation system for all public officials is a very strong expectation from the point of view of social justice. In view of the strategic challenges and specific needs of senior officials, it appears necessary for the Government to incorporate the legal status of category A+ into the general status of civil servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u340	What's the point?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u341	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u342	Category A+ is a reality of use – everyone is well aware of it on these benches. The term is frequently used by competition candidates, employers or the AFPB. It is important to stress, however, that it covers, as you have said, very different realities, since no fewer than 100,000 civil servants are part of it. The Government has begun an important work of reflection on the high civil service, in which the power to legislate by order, which we voted on in article 22, the definition of higher hospital jobs in article 20, or the task entrusted to Mr. Frédéric Thiriez, which we have already mentioned. In my view, it would be wiser to let the Government move forward before legislating on the creation of a new category, which would not be without consequences. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u343	I call Mrs Cendra Motin to support Amendments Nos 240, 242, 242 and 243, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u344	In order to be pleasant to my colleagues in the Republicans and France groups, I withdraw Amendment No 240, as well as the following two amendments, because I know that the answers will be found in Mr Thirez's report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u345	It was time to do the police in this Chamber! In fact, all amendments should be withdrawn by the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u346	Amendment No 355 by Mrs Coralie Dubost is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u347	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u348	Mr Alain Perea has the floor to support Amendment No. 891.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u349	I had deposited it in another form. Its drafting has been significantly improved by Mrs Barbara Pompili, and I have co-signed it. I would like to clarify this point because I find it interesting that Mrs Pompili, who was Secretary of State,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u350	François Hollande!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u351	Of course, but she was, above all, at the heart of the machine, in contact with the high public service. I find it interesting that she and I, who are young MPs and, above all, territorial actors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u352	Actor short!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u353	Territorial actor above ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u354	... have the same logic: we believe that the functioning of the state and the public service would be improved if the members of the high public service, which has been discussed a lot lately, could carry out regular internships in the territories, be present in the field. By this amendment, we propose that agents in certain categories should do an internship of 30 days a year in the territories, in order to be in line with certain realities, which I feel are not always perceived in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u356	We noted that this was a new wording. I fully understand the meaning of your amendment, which joins our concern to strengthen the presence of senior officials in contact with public service users in the territories, which we have regularly mentioned during the debate. I believe that the subject will also be addressed by Mr. Frédéric Thiriez in the context of the mission recently entrusted to him by the President of the Republic, namely to propose avenues for reform of the high civil service. In fact, the mechanism you are considering should be studied in advance, in order to assess its truly operational nature and the consequences it would have on the organization of central and decentralized services. I invite you to withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I will issue an unfavorable opinion, pending the conclusions of Mr Thirez's mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u358	As you said, the amendment has been redrafted. The first version was also aimed at deconcentrated services, which posed a challenge. In general, those in managerial positions are subject to a prior mobility requirement. Most of them have gone through deconcentrated services. On the other hand, we are changing the so-called large bodies system in two ways. First, as we mentioned earlier, we are going to end immediate access to large bodies after leaving high-level public service schools, in order to ensure that operational experience is acquired. Secondly, in September 2018, we introduced a new device at the exit of the ENA, which will be renewed in September 2019: those who come out in the top of the ranking and make the choice to join the big bodies are now obliged, after two years, to compulsory mobility on positions considered to be priority and, often, very operational. I am thinking, for example, of a post opened by the Ministry of Overseas Affairs on the recentralization of the management of the RSA in Guyana – the ministry needed reinforcement in this area. We will take another step in September: Gérald Darmanin and I will ensure that at least half – certainly not all – of the positions offered to the large bodies for this compulsory mobility belong to deconcentrated services. It is important that senior officials be able to gain such experience. I would add that the duration of compulsory mobility is 18 months, more than the 30 days you propose. In view of our efforts in this area, I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u359	Amendments Nos 49 and 50 by Mr Robin Reda are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u360	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 581.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u361	We propose to open certain territorial civil service competitions to candidates who justify a professional certification registered in the national register of professional qualifications. At present, as you know, the competitions in question are open to candidates justifying certain diplomas or the completion of certain studies, but not to those who justify the professional qualifications I have mentioned. The measure we are defending would, in our view, facilitate professional mobility and limit the use of contract agents. It should be recalled that the impact study of the bill is completely silent on what could be involved in future, for the sake of the balance of public administrations, in the weight of contract workers compared to those who will continue to be covered by the status of civil servant. According to some figures, up to 40 per cent of contractors could be contracted, given the benefits offered by the implementing decrees, whose projects have still not been communicated to us. Our proposal aims to diversify recruitment into the territorial civil service through the competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u363	The subject of your proposal will be the subject of the order that we have just authorized the Government to adopt article 22. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u365	Irrespective of the order, which will instead deal with the senior public service, the organization of competitions is purely a matter of regulation. I will soon start a consultation on this matter with employers and trade union organisations. Your proposal gives rise to the same kind of reflection and arguments as that relating to the inclusion of advanced learning earlier by Mrs Motin. The idea of exempting a person from professional certification from the first group of tests – this would be the result of your amendment if we went to the end of its logic – is rather attractive at first glance. However, this measure would raise, in law, a problem of equality before the competition. On the other hand, it would not necessarily deserve to be generalized. We will work on regulatory provisions in this area, in order to better adapt the competitions to those who have followed a career certification path. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u366	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u367	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that clarification. Since there is little doubt that the amendment will be rejected, I will keep it to date. In any event, we would prefer these provisions to be at the level of the law. The hierarchy of standards does not prohibit a provision in the regulatory area from being included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u368	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u369	We referred earlier to public service learning and possible barriers to the recruitment of apprentices. Does everyone realize here that the smaller the number of civil servants in public administrations and services, the more apprentices are required to hold real jobs? They are no longer in training; They're doing a real job. I met apprentice caregivers – I didn't know you could become a caregiver through learning. As the staff are understaffed, they take up a position, as are trainees from nursing schools. They do this work by being underpaid, while they are supposed to learn, especially to do service to others. In the name of what do these people, who help the public service to get out of business while they are learning, not have the same rights as other agents?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u370	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 411.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u371	Mr. Pierre Cordier is the first signatory of this amendment which aims to restore the correlation between the nature of the professional activities that can be valued for access to the third competition and the tasks of the postulated managers. The removal of this correlation is not without financial implications, as it favours the multi-registration of candidates in the three channels of the competition and, consequently, absenteeism in the tests. With regard to territorial civil service competitions, the management centres have repeatedly drawn the attention of the public authorities to this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u372	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-20-O1240.u373	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the Public Service Transformation Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
