ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u1	The next item is the debate on the information report of the Committee for the Evaluation and Control of Public Policies – CEC – on the evaluation of the State's action in the exercise of its sovereign missions in Seine-Saint-Denis. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear the rapporteurs, the speakers of the groups, and then the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. I would remind you that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr. François Cornut-Gentille, rapporteur of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u2	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, Mr Minister of National Education and Youth, Mr Minister for City and Housing, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, the report which I had the honour to draw up with Mr Kokouendo, within the framework of the CEC, on the action of the State in the exercise of its regal missions in Seine-Saint-Denis highlights two major observations. The first is the unequal action of the State, characterized by inexplicable differences. In a word, with an equal population, the Seine-Saint-Denis is not treated as another department. As far as the central state's sovereign missions – national education, security, justice – are concerned, its inhabitants receive less public service than others, even though their needs, as everyone knows, are particularly glaring. There is something unacceptable to any republican. The report highlights this difficulty. I would point out that this is of a political nature. Far from drafting a report on national education, security or justice, we wanted to show that the problem of the State is global, and probably calls for a comprehensive response. The second observation is equally destabilizing and disturbing: the policy of the State is not only unequal, but inadequate in the face of certain phenomena that emerge very strongly and that call into question our tools for public action. The first of these is the explosion of the population. Mr Kokouendo and I were struck by the fact that the number of inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis cannot be estimated at 10%, 20% or 30%. If, in the report, I did not go beyond this rate, it is in order to avoid becoming a madman, but very serious people, who, Madam and gentlemen, ministers, the Secretary of State, work in your administrations, and whose name I did not want to reveal, have put forward much more worrying figures. The inequality I mentioned earlier is even more serious if 25 per cent, 30 per cent or 40 per cent of the population, which is experiencing particular difficulties, is not covered by statistics and is not taken into account. I also noted the high quality of those who work in this department. Their sense of public service is exceptional. They cannot therefore be criminalized, nor can the members of the Government. But the very strong commitment of public servants does not prevent a difficulty, in the upper echelons, in recognizing certain emerging and difficult phenomena. I know that you are fighting on this point, Minister of National Education, but I am surprised that there is no idea of the level of students in Seine-Saint-Denis. In these circumstances, how could you reduce social inequalities? Whatever you say, you'll need a lot of inventiveness to convince us. As far as security is concerned, all actors – police, magistrates and also teachers – have pointed to an explosion of the underground economy – I am not only talking about drugs – which destabilizes not only traditional tools but also society as a whole. The police do not know how to respond to this phenomenon. In a field such as housing, which Mr. Little knows well, we see the explosion of sleep merchants, but we lack tools. In some sectors, the Seine-Saint-Denis must be upgraded in terms of treatment by the public service. Elsewhere, we need to know how to act, faced with completely new problems. These are the two lines of this report. I am glad that we have been able to bring together all the parliamentarians, from all political backgrounds, as well as all the local elected representatives, who sometimes diverge between them, and finally the Prime Minister. I welcome his answer, but I remain vigilant, because the risk of administrative collapse of this dossier is high. The Prime Minister's letter and the presence of several members of the Government in this House tend to reassure me, but I do not underestimate these risks or that of staying at the local level, when the stakes are national. I shall therefore insist on a few points. First of all, we have to go fast, because we are between 15 and 20 years late. This is a sign that the current government is not responsible for the situation. So let's not pour it into political politics. Second, if you want to do this work, your administrations must accept the transparency, to which they are repugnant in ordinary times, on the allocation of staff. Perhaps they must be pushed into it in order to build a catch-up plan quite quickly. The elected representatives of Seine-Saint-Denis are aware that this will not take place in two years. Going too fast would also lead to the recruitment of personnel who would not be at the level. I repeat, however, that we need a serious plan, a real catch-up plan. Finally, work needs to be done on the tools for the future, in order to make this department a laboratory for imagining the future instruments of public action. I am very pleased to have carried out this mission, and I want it to be taken seriously. You understand this: our approach is neither partisan nor politician. I hope that, in the long run, we will remain at this level. This is important for the Seine-Saint-Denis, which must know whether it really belongs to the Republic, but also for the Republic and for ourselves. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] At a time when the Government and the deputies are being questioned, it seems interesting to me to show that we are collectively able to carry out this innovative work, to go beyond the administrative routine and to free ourselves from a partisan approach, for the Seine-Saint-Denis and for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u3	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo, rapporteur of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u4	Mr President, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this is a mission that has been moving the lines for the last few months. It was an innovation for a parliamentary mission to evaluate public policies in a limited territory, in matters relating to justice, education and security. Its publication has given rise to many reactions and, of course, to many expectations. Indeed, if the committee for the evaluation and control of public policies focused its choice on the Seine-Saint-Denis, it was that, aware of the problems of this department, it expected not to draw up a simple state of affairs but to formulate concrete proposals. At a time when some complain that their MPs are not close enough to the reality on the ground, this report, commissioned in 2017, provides evidence to the contrary. I thank the more than 120 people interviewed, teachers, magistrates, local elected officials, experts, all the public officials and all the associations, which are still so active, who participated in this investigation and granted us their time. This report and the recommendations it contains will now be enriched by our exchanges and by the debates that are taking place in our country. Present yesterday in Évry-Courcouronnes, I have heard some mayors and presidents of associations rightly ask, for example, the multiplication of preparatory classes in 93, as well as the extension of the duplication of classes of preparatory courses – CP – until the end of cycle 3. Since the release of this report last May, I have read many negative or biased comments on the state's bankruptcy. They are obviously exaggerated. No one can say that he disinterested in the Seine-Saint-Denis. However, all the measures taken by successive Governments have most often proved to be insufficient, ineffective or inefficient. It is clear that the problems of Aubervilliers, where the poverty rate is 44.3 per cent, will not be the same as that of Gournay-sur-Marne, where it is 5.5 per cent. How can we encourage experienced teachers to invest in Seine-Saint-Denis, while 64% of teachers in this department are new owners, compared to 21% at national level? A mix of experienced and young teacher profiles seems to be a good option to ensure an effective education policy. It is also noted that the difficulty of replacing absent teachers leads to a shortage of about one year on all pupils' schooling, which leads to a higher failure rate in the Seine-Saint-Denis than in other departments. In these circumstances, how can we ensure that the assessment tools are adapted, reliable and how can we restore confidence in the school of the Republic? In the report, we also address security: areas of lawlessness; a chronic understaffed police force, often insufficiently trained; a devastating underground economy – narcotics, an increase in the prostitution of minors – estimated at several billion euros, which strongly mobilises the resources of the police to the detriment of other missions, such as the fight against theft and aggression, or road safety. As far as the organisation of justice is concerned, the courts, despite recent efforts, remain overburdened; the processing time of the files is abnormally high; The rotation rate of judges – about one third a year – is high and positions remain regularly unfilled. But above all, the Seine-Saint-Denis remains a poorly known territory, where the prefect estimates between 150000 and 200000 the number of people in an irregular situation, while many of our interlocutors reported up to 400,000 people off radar, probably closer to reality. This is the basic observation: the State must give itself the effective tools of census and monitoring of the population. Our report refers to reliable solutions that exist elsewhere in Europe. Finally, it is by combining the efforts of everyone on the ground and not by acting on their own side that the State and local and regional authorities will be more effective in the development and implementation of reliable solutions. Although it has not been specifically mentioned in the report, whenever we have to deal with priority areas of city policy, housing will always be a determining factor. In this regard, I welcome the appointment of an unworthy housing magistrate to the Bobigny Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the creation of a real estate and land company with €80 million to launch targeted actions. For decades, the Seine-Saint-Denis has assumed responsibility for a highly social, open, generous and attentive policy for the most disadvantaged. It is also the most dynamic department with 36.4% of business start-ups in the second quarter of 2018, and the youngest, with huge development potential. I hope that all commentators – politicians, media, social networks – will be keen to highlight, whenever possible, its historical and architectural heritage, its very rich cultural activity and its leading companies in many fields. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Our Ecuadorian-dionysian friends must be proud of their territory. I look forward to much of our work in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u5	We come to the speakers in the groups. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u6	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the presence in the gallery of the first vice-president of the Senate, Mr. Philippe Dallier, and the chair of the Seine-Saint-Denis departmental council, Mr. Stéphane Troussel. I would also like to warmly thank our colleagues François Cornut-Gentille and Rodrigue Kokouendo for their work. This is the first time in parliamentary history that an evaluation mission has been carried out in a given territory, and that facts and figures are thus notified in order to describe a reality that has been hidden for too long, for lack of having adopted the correct reading grid. Indeed – perhaps I am going to surprise you – I do not think, either, that everything is a matter of means. The means are never but the logical conclusion of a reflection, the result of a vision – or of a lack of vision. With regard to the subject we are discussing this evening, the lack of resources is the product of a misconception, but widespread one: that the state is basically a problem or a solution. Madam, gentlemen of the Government, this evening it is an elected member of the Seine-Saint-Denis who goes up to the rostrum to speak before you, an elected member armed with the conviction that if the State cannot do everything, it can very much, with regard to the missions that underpin its raison d'être. The effectiveness, which your Government is calling for, implies results and an evaluation of these results. The thing is quite different when it comes to obligations: the obligations do not notice, they cannot be postponed; they exist or do not exist, they are respected or they are not. As far as bonds are concerned, the least we can say is that today, as in the past, the state has failed in Seine-Saint-Denis. The elected one who speaks to you tonight, Madam and gentlemen of the Government, has been elected from the city of Aulnay-sous-Bois for more than thirty years; he is an elected one who grew up in Seine-Saint-Denis, who loves his department and who lived in the front line the evolutions that went through it. Tonight, I wish that from our debate a simple conviction emerges, which transcends unnecessary divisions: the state, with regard to its regal missions of education, police and justice, must urgently regain ground. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, your responsibility is immense. Don't put on the next day what can be done today. When the state recedes, the living environment of our fellow citizens deteriorates, moral landmarks are lost, authority is lost, cohesion is eroded, leaving room, not for anarchy, but for a new order, a counter-order. As Pascal said: "Justice without strength is powerless. Strength without justice is tyrannical. [...] Justice and strength must therefore be put together. The State is the guarantor of this association of the just and the fort, of this balance which allows the weakest, those who aspire only to live with dignity of their work, to never be subjected to the reign of the strongest. When the State recedes, when justice renounces condemnation or does so only late, for lack of means, when impunity settles, the sense of uselessness of our law enforcement forces increases, the well-being of teachers and the vast majority of students who work and want to succeed is weakened and transformed into a deadly poison: distrust – this mistrust that breaks the fraternity between men, challenges the harmony between citizens and their institutions. The direct effects of the crime caused by the historical setback of the state are numerous, but they can be summarized as follows: the criminal chain, with police missions – investigation, arrest, fight against crime –, intelligence – collection, analysis, action – and justice – repression, reparation, rehabilitation – is now breathless. As our colleagues point out in their report, at the Aubervilliers court of instance, the delay before the hearing is twelve months, against two in Paris. Is that normal? In the courts of Bobigny and Saint-Denis, the deadlines are a little shorter, but they remain well above the national average. In the Bobigny Children's Court, most judgments are not immediately served; In some cases, service may take up to one year or even two. Bobigny's attorney says 418 investigative files stagnate in the department, with no real prospect, neither in the short term nor in the medium term, for lack of funds. The workload on the court requires judges to set priorities in the cases to be dealt with. Each year, hundreds of proceedings are closed because of a lack of judges to deal with them. The instructions for drug trafficking cases are only issued when there is a high chance of bringing down significant trafficking. Is that tenable? Is it only liveable? At school, the services of the communes of Seine-Saint-Denis observe a violation of the educational institution because of the departure of experienced teachers to less difficult regions and because of the significant absenteeism. However, the efforts of municipalities and local elected representatives to maintain quality education are important. I am thinking in particular of the municipal homework support programmes or the days of exchanges with our law enforcement agencies, which affect thousands of young people. I welcome your efforts, Mr. Minister of Education, in the area of classroom duplication; It brought a plus. However, this requires space and funding. All these efforts, Madam Members of the Government, I am telling you in my capacity as Member of Parliament for Seine-Saint-Denis and President of the social centres in my city, are not enough. They are not enough, for they are ruined within the hour by the counter-order of the traffickers, who divert our young people from school. And they will remain in vain if delinquency, failing to be firmly and precisely punished, continues to ruin the image of these priority neighbourhoods where so many young people do not ask for help, but simply aspire to a prosperous and serene environment of life. However, the national police forces no longer have sufficient human and material capacity to carry out their tasks, and often discharge themselves to the municipal police. In my city, in Aulnay-sous-Bois, the mayor decided to participate in the equipment of the national police: digital equipment, defence and equipment equipment, furniture and even four vehicles were provided by the commune to the national police officers in order to help them carry out their public service mission. It's the world upside down! Moreover, the treatment of illegal occupation, whether in squats or in public space, lacks precision in our law. The watchmen are always present at the four corners of the residences in the priority areas, which hinders the visits of the tenant candidates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u8	As a result, applicants are less and less accepting of the accommodation offered in these neighbourhoods. The middle classes that were born there are leaving, and despite your efforts, Mr. Secretary of State for City and Housing, social mix is not on the table. Let's repeat it, hear it: the Seine-Saint-Denis is the youngest department in Ile-de-France and one of the youngest in France. I can tell you that no one is expecting quotas in the big schools or major speeches on discrimination. Our young people expect nothing, they undertake: priority neighbourhoods are places where we create twice as many businesses as anywhere else in France. Who knows? If the image of neighbourhoods remains negative, the problems described in this report have persisted for years. It is not just the fault of the current government, it is the fault of everyone. According to the Conseil national de l'ordre des médecins, Île-de-France is thus the French region with the largest decrease in the number of doctors. On the one hand, there is entrepreneurial dynamism and areas renovated or being renovated, on the other, the departure of the middle classes and medical desertification: how to understand this? As geographer Christophe Guilluy says, sensitive urban areas are not ghettos, but airlocks, from which people and officials leave, as soon as they can, for lack of a prosperous environment. It is therefore a global awareness that this report calls for: 0.96% of our gross domestic product is now devoted to the police, compared with 1.02 % in Europe; 0.23% is devoted to justice, compared with 0.34% in Europe. Gradually, we have moved from rationalisation to rationalisation of public policies, sacrificing the sovereign missions of the State on the altar of short-term economies, which do not change anything to the structural deficit of our public finances. Like all peripheral France, urban or rural, the Seine-Saint-Denis does not require pass-rights, it wants the Republic; meritocracy and order; cohesion and security. If we note a significant budgetary effort, Madam Minister of Justice, including an increase in the number of magistrates and clerks, which was confirmed to us by the president of the Bobigny High Court, this effort must be continued and increased, and this must be done as soon as the next finance bill is in place. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir and MODEM groups]] Contrary to what the President of the Republic said yesterday, we cannot, we can no longer do better by spending less. We, members of the opposition, are ready to work with the majority and the Government to assist in the reconstruction of the Republic in Seine-Saint-Denis. Grab the hand we extend to you. It is the future of the Seine-Saint-Denis and of all France that is at stake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u9	Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u10	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, who have done a remarkable job of evaluating the State's action in its core tasks; This is an important work, with an edifying result, which must, of course, lead us to question ourselves, the elected representatives of the nation, who are at the closest to the realities of the field, some being also local elected representatives or former local elected representatives. The observation in this report highlights many of the ills which France in general suffers and which find themselves in this place to be terribly exacerbated. I will not go back to what has just been said; I would rather like us to refer to the solutions and answers that we can provide, particularly in the field of education. The Republic has been built by education, and it is only through education that the republican promise can come true. To say this is not to pay for good feelings or good intentions, it is simply to recall the order of things by which we can hope to work towards a more just, harmonious, fraternal society. As you clearly say, the Seine-Saint-Denis suffers from multiple ills: a school absenteeism well above the national average and which continues to grow; a lower pass on the exams; a lower level of education from college onwards; higher drop-out rates and more late school attendance. To this is added the failure – the word is weak – of the replacement of absent teachers, with a rate which, according to a survey by the Court of Auditors, would be only 5 to 20 %. Incredible: it is estimated that, as a result of these repeated absences, a student from Seine-Saint-Denis suffers from a one-year school deficit compared to a student from another department. However, the Seine-Saint-Denis has been benefiting for nearly forty years from aid policies: priority education areas, priority education networks and reinforced priority education networks – REP and REP + – and the sending of additional staff. In short, the state has not abandoned this territory, but its policies have not yielded the desired results – which, of course, is a question. The consequence of all of this is that today we see indifference and distrust on the part of the people towards a State that has not achieved the results that we were entitled to expect from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u11	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u12	This affects one of the foundations of our republican motto: equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u13	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u14	This has a worrying consequence: the departure from school of an increasing number of children, who turn to family education or to out-of-contract schools. We know the dangers this can entail. Nevertheless, the Government's school policy is expected to bear fruit in the near future. The first returns we have from the duplication of classes in CP and CE1 are good. There has been progress in learning and a marked improvement in the performance of young students. By pursuing a radical policy in this area, that is, by taking the problem to the root, we should quickly see positive effects in the higher levels. Other measures also seem to us to be in the direction of greater social justice: the "Duties made", access to extracurricular activities, artistic and cultural education. In short, a whole panel of measures is contributing to this imperative objective. Several other measures put forward by the rapporteurs seem interesting to us to defend. To change the criterion of the distribution of staff, first of all: a reflection in this direction should be carried out in order to encourage experienced teachers to invest more in these territories with sometimes difficult audiences. Support teachers in their in-service training, then, in order to listen to them and provide them with training related to their demands and their knowledge of the field. Of course, the question of replacement is essential, but it is a broader issue, which is the strengthening of the teacher recruitment pool. Many answers have already been given since the beginning of the quinquennium; Bill for a School of Trust, which is currently being considered by this House, proposes others. The concrete effects of all these measures will be felt. Ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to discuss this report, which, if it puts its finger on sensitive and sometimes difficult-to-accept issues, must be used as an electroshock. We are convinced that it is through education that we will provide the fastest and most sustainable answers. We, members of the Democratic and Related Movement Group, hope that they will be the subject of consensus and will win the support of all political movements. [[MM. the rapporteurs applaud. – Alain Ramadier also applauds]] It is also an opportunity to recall the role of local elected officials, many of whom are calling for better involvement in decision-making and the removal of obstacles that hinder them. In this area, as in many others mentioned in the report, solutions can come from the ground. I am confident that the content of our discussions will make it possible to highlight this certainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u15	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u16	Let us immediately welcome this unprecedented initiative! It was a matter of photographing the Seine-Saint-Denis according to an overall vision, not by the prism of a given public policy. Such an approach seems to me to be quite interesting, and likely to be reproduced – with great interest – in rural areas which also show signs, albeit distinct, of the abandonment and demand of a strong State alongside the inhabitants. Let us take a few figures – I am not a resident of the Seine-Saint-Denis department, but I am attached to them – : the department would have 1.6 million inhabitants, but this figure is the subject of questions: should we add 100,000? 300,000? We do not even have statistical data on the exact population of the department. Analysis of the various regal policies will show a real deficit in statistics. Without her, we can't do much. In particular, public policies cannot be evaluated. One of the recommendations concluding your report is devoted to this, rapporteurs. It is absolutely essential. For my part, I fully subscribe to it. We must now ensure that a high-quality statistical tool is developed, allowing us to work finely on the analysis of public policies carried out in the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u17	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u18	This is true for justice, and not less for teaching. It's not easy. Perhaps it is necessary to imagine new arrangements, based on cohorts allowing students to follow over several years and to really appreciate the reality of the positive evolution – or not – of the teachings taught. The Department has a high crime rate. It can be explained by the deficit in the area of justice – in terms of the number of magistrates – and in the field of police – which is understaffed. The assessment of the action taken by the State in your report, ladies and gentlemen, convinces us of the continuing difficulties and the lack of prospects for short-term improvement in education, police and justice, despite the efforts made by the previous governments and by the present one in particular. The night watchman state seems to have fallen asleep. Strong calls were made – by the mayor of Sevran a year ago, by the teachers today, by the judges of the TGI of Bobigny yesterday. All say, "That's enough! " We need to hear them. The report will help us if we do not intend to do so. No regal public policy escapes this bad image. Of course, justice has been mentioned at length before, but I have chosen to refer to it in particular. The understaffing of Bobigny's TGI led the professionals concerned to publish a forum last November in order to denounce the operation of the TGI. Madam Minister, you have responded by increasing the number of staff, which they have been sensitive to. However, you are well aware that this is not enough. This is the first juvenile court in France. Despite the high quality of the professionals and clerks who work there, he is experiencing real difficulties. In addition, children in the department are in arrears and do not receive the help they need, as the department fails to meet all its obligations. A State response is expected on the situation of unaccompanied minors. This is a difficult question. Indeed, the number of unaccompanied foreign minors in the department has tripled since 2015, from 450 to 1200. These children are entitled to protection. According to the report, the State compensates 10 per cent for the amount allocated to it. The return of children from Syria, whether or not they are from the department, takes place at Roissy Airport, which is under the jurisdiction of the Bobigny Court. These children are therefore covered by the Social Aid for Children of Seine-Saint-Denis. For an estimated 2.8 million euros of expenditure, the State grants 250,000. His responsibility is engaged in this matter. The report notes a lack of link and consideration between headquarters and the field. This culture, I believe, can evolve without difficulty. With regard to the recommendations made at the end of the report, I agree. I will add three: ensuring that reliable statistical tools are put in place...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u19	And independent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u20	... in the field of police, justice and education, enabling the evaluation of public policies that our laws help to implement; setting up user committees in public services, so that citizens' voices are regularly heard; adopt budgets in line with the needs identified and work towards the differentiation of aid according to the territories. On the other hand, we must protect tired associations, which are truly a very important vector of social cohesion in the territories. Our two rapporteurs conclude by referring to the methods of evaluation which they present as different. On the contrary, they seem to me to be complementary, if we keep as a red line the citizen's questioning about the actions carried out by the State, which are often the result of legislative provisions that we have taken in our time. Finally, I welcome the establishment of a follow-up mission, which gives full meaning to this report. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Alain Ramadier also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the work you have done and for your interest in this department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u21	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u22	First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues François Cornut-Gentille and Rodrigue Kokuendo for the excellent report they gave to the reflection of our assembly – finally! This original exercise is successful. They have managed, in less than a hundred pages, to portray faithfully and accurately, with regard to education, security and justice, the failure as well as the impotence of the State for decades in the department of the Seine-Saint-Denis, where I am fortunate to have grown. Even if the report does not address the other flaws – just as important – in terms of housing, access to care, transport or sports facilities, it has at least had the advantage of giving an unprecedented echo to the inequalities that the department's elected officials have been denouncing for decades, not for pleasure – sometimes even with a little shame, because we feel weeping – but out of demand, so that its citizens are no longer relegated to the last rank of the Republic. Although successive governments have always claimed to have at least a heart in the verb to remove these inequalities by launching multiple plans – a bit like a Lépine contest of the best idea – the Republic has always failed in our department. You have to admit it. Your report, ladies and gentlemen, helps to make it happen. In the areas of security, education and justice, highlighted by the report, as in the others, the same is true: the public policies carried out there have always proved inadequate and ineffective. However, in the case of one of the most populous departments in France and the youngest, where the standard of living is one of the lowest, where unemployment is high, where the crime rate is among the highest and where the inhabitants combine difficulties and fragility – like a patient arriving in hospital and presenting a polypathology – the logic would have been that the State should have adopted – in the long term and not in the light of the political majorities – a real strategy adapted to the territory and its inhabitants. Of course, this is still not the case, as the authors of the report note. I ignore the understaffing, the inexperienced personnel, the high turnover and the shortcomings in the means, always put forward to justify the dysfunctions of the State in Seine-Saint-Denis. These explanations are incomprehensible and unacceptable to the inhabitants of the department, whom Mr. Nunez knows well for having exercised professionally. How can I not feel the feeling of injustice that may appear in my remarks when the delays in hearing exclude the possibility of having access to justice as everywhere else in our country? How can we understand that a hearing is cancelled because of a heating breakdown or water infiltration into the roofs of the courthouse? How can you not feel abandoned when you find that now, in my constituency, you cannot file a complaint on the weekend, unless you accept that your complaint is dealt with speedily – much more than on the other side of the device – due to the lack of judicial police officers? How can we not denounce a breach of equality if your child is satisfied with education provided by inexperienced teachers – even if they are dedicated – whose absences are still weakly replaced? The inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis understood that they were abandoned by the Republic. Moreover, that is why you did not find them among the yellow vests, Madam and gentlemen of the Government. Most of them eventually gave up their arms and gave up hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u23	That's completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u24	On the other hand, this is the only department of France that is reduced to a number of mineralogic plaques – "9-3" – which is insulting to me for those people who simply want to play the Republic and get out of it even though the Republic, sometimes, is playing them. Yesterday's revenues, made up of repeated ministerial television trips – all the more so since the department is only a quarter of an hour away from Paris – and renewed announcements and inappropriate policies, are still to the liking of the day. There is an urgent need to put an end to this attitude. Finally, the State must provide the Seine-Saint-Denis department with the essential conditions for its prosperity and development. To do this, you must first get to know your population – the report shows it very well. The municipality in which I live – and where I grew up – is supposed to have 700,000 inhabitants. It probably counts 75,000. No one knows. How can public policies be implemented if the situation is not even known? He's a doctor who can't make a prescription diagnosis! It is obvious that you are not responsible for this situation, Madam and gentlemen of the Government. Nevertheless, it is necessary that the state finally allocate to the department of means to match the stakes – as your report demonstrates, gentlemen the rapporteurs –, in particular by equipping us with experienced staff, better paid than elsewhere and enjoying pension benefits as well as ease of access to property – in short, the state must make the department attractive to the best of its servants! In military matters, if an operation is particularly difficult, the elite troops are sent. In Seine-Saint-Denis, we need the elite of the Republic and not dedicated but beginner servants! To paraphrase the words of the attorney of Bobigny, exceptional means must be allocated to this exceptional department, because the situations there are exceptional. Instead, our department, which has always needed more than the others, has always received less than the others. I thank Messrs. rapporteurs to have demonstrated this – this time they are people who are foreign to our department. The means given to us to take account of our difficulties are inversely proportional to the number of ministers who have been there in the past. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, SOC and GDR groups. – MM. François Cornut-Gentille and Alain Ramadier also applaud]] Therefore, Madam and gentlemen of the Government, the stake – the only issue – of our department is whether the government to which you belong will be the first to give itself the means and to demonstrate the political will – this is not the path I have seen it follow so far – to grant the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis, the excluded, the recluses, the ghettoisés of the Republic, the equal opportunities to which they should never have ceased to be entitled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u25	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u26	We are very pleased that this debate is taking place. We have a single obsession: to ensure that the conclusions of the report by Messrs. Cornut-Gentille and Kokuendo – whom I thank – do not end up under the dust on a shelf, and that the inhabitants of Seine-Saint-Denis stop living the double penalty of social and territorial inequality. The report highlights a particularly unacceptable situation in our Republic. We must realize that it is independent of the social situation of the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis department that the resources are allocated to us. We lack resources compared to other departments. We have a much lower budget than others to carry out the State's sovereign tasks of education, justice and the police. I will mention a few examples – but we could spend the evening there. I read in the report a sentence from an educational sociologist that "the least well equipped of Parisian establishments is better equipped than the most endowed of the institutions of the Seine-Saint-Denis". I read again – it's assuming: "The least well equipped of the Parisian establishments is better equipped than the most endowed of the institutions of the Seine-Saint-Denis".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u27	Check it out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u28	The same applies to justice. Irrespective of the worrying material state of the High Court, it takes two months to divorce in Paris; It takes between four and six in Seine-Saint-Denis. I also have a thousand examples in mind about the police. I was particularly surprised to see that the position of Police-Population Relations Officer in a priority area was being recruited and remained vacant for ten months. Examples of such situations could be multiplied. I could spend the night there. This situation is the result of political choices that do not date from yesterday, and of which you inherit to a large extent. But, by increasing austerity and reducing public spending, and redistributed wealth to the richest, you have recently contributed to aggravating the concrete situation of the majority of the population in our department, whose poverty rate is 28.6 per cent, compared with 14.7 per cent in the hexagon. Because we've received billions from the National Agency for Urban Renewal – ANRU – many people think the state gives a lot, but it doesn't work. This report runs counter to this received idea and restores the truth: if the building has been improved, the standard of living has not been ridiculed. The number of potential beneficiaries of active solidarity income – RSA – exploded when public services were getting poorer. The resources allocated to local and regional authorities have been drastically reduced: this bleed has been known everywhere; But in Seine-Saint-Denis, we are at the bone. Only the minimum of what public services must offer is now provided. We're not doing the job. What we demand is equality; It is therefore first and foremost a sounding and stumbling policy – a catch-up plan, obviously spread over time, in order to address these deep inequalities. But we also expect us to look at our department differently, far from the stigma that we often experience, far from the contempt that people in our territory often suffer. Finally, we want another model of territorial development. A catch-up plan is essential, of course; But it is also necessary to put an end to this development in the major cities where, on the one hand, wealth and jobs are concentrated, and, on the other hand, dormant cities where it is very difficult to find employment and drive economic dynamism. What we expect from the public authorities is investments, but also policies that will help develop transport, fight against medical deserts, develop economic activity, and ensure the survival of local businesses. All this is what would simply allow the inhabitants of our department to have access to the right to the city. It is deeply unacceptable that they should be relegated to a second zone. We read, of course, the Prime Minister's letter, and read about Emmanuel Macron's remarks last night. I must pay tribute here to the very small steps taken, under the pressure of the elected representatives of all sides, mobilized following this report, but also of the associations and the angry inhabitants. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR, SOC and UDI-Agir. – Mr. François Cornut-Gentille also applauds]] Despite these announcements, we are today – that is little to say – far from the point of view. But I would also like to stress a problem of meaning: when he was a candidate, the President of the Republic thought that young people should dream of being billionaires; Yesterday, he said the Seine-Saint-Denis is California without the sea. I tell you very simply: the American dream is not ours. Our dream is perhaps more ambitious, and in any case different: we would like the republican motto "freedom, equality, fraternity" not to sound hollow in the ears of the inhabitants of our department. The republican promise must be kept: that is what we are asking for, not more, not less, but quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u29	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u30	This report by Mr President-in-Office of the Cornut-Gentille and Kokouendo, in the preparatory work in which I participated assiduously, has at least two virtues. First of all, he was unanimous in this House. Then, most of the members of this mission, starting with its two rapporteurs, were outside the Seine-Saint-Denis department. The description of the situation is only more objective. This report raises the question of the fate of this department to the entire nation. Of course, he did not surprise local, elected or professional actors who, for years, have been throwing SOS and alarms, but who are often unbelieving. They are called weeping, as Jean-Christophe Lagarde said; their calls for help are considered to be jeremiades. Our country, the Republic of Equals, is not fulfilling its promise in the Seine-Saint-Denis department. There can be no justification for the fact that a resident of this department does not have the same value as others, that the Republic does not devote the same means to him or her as to another resident elsewhere in the national territory. So there are, in fact, second-class citizens. No policy of urban renewal, no school zoning, no derogatory policy can effectively compensate for the deficits of common law policies, particularly in the three areas examined in the report: education, security and justice. This is also what the report says: we can make ourselves aware and align millions for specific policies; These millions will never live up to those who lack to ensure republican equality. This is not a judgement of the Government's action. Your responsibility, Madam and gentlemen of the Government, is minor here, since this situation has been settled for a long time. But your responsibility is immense to remedy it! However, after the release of this report in June 2018, after an interview with the Prime Minister in September 2018, little happened. We all expected specific budget lines in the finance bill, at least for the three policies concerned, lines that would start at least one catch-up. And nothing happened!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u31	Yes, we closed our precincts on the weekend!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u32	Some posts have been awarded here or there; But the state has no strategy, even over several years, to catch up with this unbearable situation in our republic. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr. François Cornut-Gentille also applauds]] This concern did not diminish when the Prime Minister's letter was read this afternoon. On the contrary, it illustrates in my view the incomprehension between the central State and the Seine-Saint-Denis. The Prime Minister lists all the derogatory policies put in place – I don't go back to what I said: that's not the point. When does this country intend to treat the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis like the others, give them the same rights and the same means that are given everywhere else in the national territory? That is the question that this report raises. It's common law, not derogatory policies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u33	Mr. Little is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr. François Cornut-Gentille also applauds]] The Prime Minister's letter also contains an extremely surprising proposal, which I consider unacceptable: that of the meeting, under the auspices of the Prefect, of working groups bringing together state representatives in the department, local elected representatives, professionals. But the report by Messrs. Cornut-Gentille and Kokouendo advocates exactly the opposite of this! He's questioning the whole nation. And the Prime Minister proposes that we lock ourselves up again behind our walls, in what must be called a certain externality vis-à-vis the Republic? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, SOC groups and on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] That's not what we want! There will be a follow-up report, and we will not let go. I do not see how the follow-up to this report could be reduced to a debate in the Chamber. Measures should be proposed to national representation and adopted by national representation. We need, at least for the three regal policies discussed here, a catch-up plan, multi-annual if necessary – we do not ask all day long. But the way this department is treated is a task for the Republic. Let us finally attack it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u35	It says with the heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u36	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u37	"Delivering with dignity, drawing up good laws, making political choices and expressing them clearly is, of course, what the country expects of its representatives, what they themselves intend to do, what they will do, I am sure," wrote General de Gaulle just sixty years ago. To this statement of Parliament's tasks, I would like to add the task of monitoring laws and assessing their effectiveness on the ground, as well as the adequacy of the State's means of action with the challenges to be met. It is an essential mission that allows us to adapt our legislative arsenal to the evolution of society and to the reality of the daily lives of our fellow citizens. We can no longer content ourselves with a vertical organization of power where the executive decides from the top of its ivory tower while Parliament – or at least its majority – follows as one man. The world is changing, our society is changing and the manifestations of yellow vests are the perfect illustration of a reality that catches us: centralization is the death of territories; Decentralisation, and with it experimentation and differentiation, allow real solutions to sometimes very different problems. The state must look at the territories in all their diversity, because the Seine-Saint-Denis is not Corsica, nor the Morbihan, nor my rural territory of Mayenne. Public policies have unfortunately, in recent years, all too often forgotten the essence of our territories, which are France's heartbeats, our assets, our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u39	That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the initiative of our colleagues in the Les Républicaines Group, who have wanted a specific territory, the Seine-Saint-Denis, to be the subject of a debate in our Assembly to reflect its specificities and the adequacy of the means of action of the public authorities to these specificities. The Seine-Saint-Denis, this contrasting and negatively known territory, deserves our full attention, as indeed all the territories of France. It suffers from an image that does not show its full potential. It is therefore important that the State accompany it effectively in order to overcome caricatures and enable each of its inhabitants to be part of a dynamic of professional, social and family success. The State must not leave anyone on the side of the road. That is why it is essential that it be responsive and adapt all its public policies to this territory. The report we are debating this evening proposes a cross-assessment of three areas in which the State exercises sovereign missions: security, justice and education. Despite the demographic, economic and cultural dynamism of the Seine-Saint-Denis, major difficulties remain and the effectiveness of the State's action in these three areas is becoming less and less apparent. Ladies and gentlemen, the Liberties and Territories Group supports your proposals. They go in the right direction to accompany the recovery of this territory which does not ask for assistance, but which wants the Republic to take its full place there. So, yes, let us provide appropriate and relevant answers, particularly in the area of education. However, I would like to take advantage of this debate to stress that public policies in one territory should not be at the expense of other territories. I think, Mr Minister of National Education, at school, where I regret to note that classes with twelve pupils, deployed mainly in priority areas of education, have penalized rural schools. In my department of Mayenne, we never closed as many classes as we did in the last school year!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u40	That's absolutely not true! You can't say that at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u41	While I am totally in favour of this duplication of classes, it appears that national education has undressed rural areas in order to dress urban areas. For our group, no territory should be the weak link in public policies. All, absolutely all, must be treated fairly according to their specificities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to rethink the action of the State not only in the Seine-Saint-Denis, but also in all the territories of France. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, UDI-Agir and LR groups]] Madam and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to assure you that the Libertés et territoires Group will be a force of proposal to achieve this and to give everyone the opportunity to believe again in our social pact, to believe in them and to believe, simply, in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u42	Mr Patrice Anato has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u43	Once upon a time the Seine-Saint-Denis: the fifth most populous department in France, soon the theatre of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, is the country's third contributor to VAT. The largest stadium in the country is there and bears the name of the nation: Stade de France. In the diversity that characterizes it, if a place could represent the indivisible and united Republic as well in what unites it rather than in what divides it, it is indeed the Seine-Saint-Denis. Madam and gentlemen of the Government, I will not be the first to stress, before you – I have the secret hope of being one of the last – that if the Seine-Saint-Denis is part of the Republic, it would sometimes seem that, on the road to national success, the Republic has abandoned it somewhat. In one of France's youngest departments, the indicators are red: almost three in ten people live below the poverty line. In many areas, some Sequano-Dyonisians sometimes feel that, while the Republic is for everyone, it is certainly not for them. Remember that we invest 47% less in the education of a student of Seine-Saint-Denis than in a student of Paris! Recall that with 4000 daily calls for 2000 places, the 115 of Seine-Saint-Denis is at saturation. It should be recalled that there is a shortage of doctors in thirty-seven of the forty communes in the department. It should be noted that 38 per cent of the population live in priority areas of city policy. These multiple reminders sound like warnings. I would have liked to tell you the beautiful story of this department, not a republican drama. This paradox is a blow to republican cohesion. While the territorial divide is more than ever at the heart of the democratic debate, the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis make a lucid and simple observation: the account is not quite there. Madam and gentlemen, what emerges from this report is neither from you nor from the government to which you belong: it is the result of decades of ineffective and sometimes misunderstood policies. Today, however, it is legitimately up to you in this department to turn expectations. Two years ago, it was in this territory of France that the President of the Republic announced his candidacy: he had clearly identified its strengths and lines of strength, while measuring obstacles and disappointment. At the heart of the daily work that I do with my colleagues of the majority and, beyond the divisions, with all the parliamentarians of the Seine-Saint-Denis, there is the commitment to carry the voice of our fellow citizens, which expresses not only hope but also a deaf anger against the injustice, old, that having grown up in the 9-3 would assign to residence behind the invisible barbed wires of the peripheral. My commitment also consists in relaying to our assembly this question posed by the citizens of my constituency and, beyond that, by those of the entire department: "Mr. MP, fifty years and that is the result: what are you going to do, you? Today, it is not a question of saying that nothing has been done. The billions invested in urban renewal and education would contradict me. Nor is it a question of singularizing the Seine-Saint-Denis, while many of the problems I have raised are encountered in other rural and urban areas, in metropolis and overseas. One of the first measures of the quinquennium was the duplication of classes in REP and REP+ zones: a success. The health plan, the poverty plan, the daily security police, the free jobs, the ELAN law, the doubling of the ANRU budget and many other plans and laws adopted and planned by our majority are intended to solve the problems of this department and many other territories of the country. In the face of these challenges, we have, more than ever, an obligation to be effective and to be successful. We owe this promise to our fellow citizens as well as to future generations: it is a heavy task, but an exciting task that, I know, unites us all here. Our youth, seniors, associations, businesses, decentralized services and committed citizens are an exceptional pool of resources and potential. We'll have to count with them and work for them. If we want to conclude with a beautiful history of the Seine-Saint-Denis, it is not by promising mountains and wonders but by writing the present and future of this territory, like all other departments, in the ink of republican equality and in the pen of territorial fairness. Our majority is working on it without blindness. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. François Cornut-Gentille also applauds]] It is not by resorting to demagogy or by instrumentalizing the situation that we can find solutions. It is by being demanding and showing will. Our majority, which supports the Government, will then be able to continue working hard to ensure that the history of the Sequano-Dyonisians ends with these four words: "And they lived happily! "
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u44	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u45	I am speaking this evening before you with both humility and great determination. While I am of course speaking as the minister responsible for the city and housing, I nevertheless consider that the challenges we face in the Seine-Saint-Denis concern not only the neighbourhoods but also the entire territory in all its specificities. If I make a speech of humility and determination, it is that the Government shares the main point of your report: the lack of territorial equity in the Seine-Saint-Denis, and more generally in our country. As the President of the Republic repeated last night in Évry-Courcouronnes, the French Republic is not present everywhere in France in the same way: this is the reality that we are confronted with.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u46	We know something about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u47	The chances of finding, in particular, decent housing, employment, training, internships or places in crèche are not the same in all the territories today. The members of the Government therefore share the main conclusion of your report: the Seine-Saint-Denis is one of those territories where republican fairness is a challenge that obliges us even more strongly than in other territories of the Republic. I do not go back to the fact that many of you have supported it. It is true that apprenticeship contracts are three times less numerous in Seine-Saint-Denis than elsewhere, that the unemployment rate is much higher than in other departments, that the number of crèches is lower and that the poverty rate exceeds 40% in many communes in the department. There is a sense of abandonment among the inhabitants,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u48	Because they're abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u49	Just like in the countryside!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u50	...that we must take into account. They feel left behind in the Republic. Meeting this challenge is the real challenge. Companies seem to form a hostile world, which rejects them because of discrimination which persists so strongly in our country. You will never find in my remarks the will to relativize the strict observation established by the report, because, as many of you have said, it reflects the real situation in which this department of the French Republic finds itself. If the sense of abandonment is real and legitimate, it is also important to remind – you do – that the Republic has not abandoned the Seine-Saint-Denis, especially its neighbourhoods. I am thinking of national education officials, police officers, health and justice officials who, every day in these difficult territories, work for the benefit of our fellow citizens: I would like to pay tribute to them. I am also thinking of the local elected representatives, the parliamentarians you are, or the associations: all of them, too, work in these territories every day. They are all the more worthy because the situation there is much more difficult than in many other territories of the Republic. However, neither respect nor consideration nor the shared observation I have mentioned are sufficient. The main question that brings us together tonight is both simple and complex: what are we doing now? As you pointed out, the current situation is not twenty months old. The responsibility lies with the policies that have been in place for several decades. What can we do now to repair these fractures that persist in this department? My first conviction is that there is no fatality. The Seine-Saint-Denis – Mrs Autain recalled – has many assets. It is one of the youngest departments in France. The rate of business creation is one of the highest in France and it is not true, contrary to what we hear too often, that they disappear in Seine-Saint-Denis faster than in the other departments. The statistics show that companies in Seine-Saint-Denis have the same life expectancy over a year as those which have been created elsewhere. The territory has two world-class airports, the headquarters of large international companies have settled there and the department is growing in population: it will be the first department of Île-de-France, with the exception of Paris, in 2020. Moreover, transport will undergo unprecedented changes – we will come back to that during the debate. Nor can I forget urban renewal programming – thirty-four programmes are launched – and upcoming events, such as the Olympic Games. The decisive issue is territorial cohesion. How can we break with the habit of considering this department as marked by fatality? My second conviction is that, while the policy that we have been pursuing for twenty months is not perfect, so much so, we are, however, deploying an energy and important means to ensure that republican success, which is at the heart of the policies of the city and of territorial cohesion that we are defending, is at the rendezvous in Seine-Saint-Denis. Unprecedented resources have been allocated to national education – Jean-Michel Blanquer will return. In September 2018, 18500 students from Seine-Saint-Denis – I am speaking under the control of the minister – benefited from the duplication of classes. And I would like to stress that this policy has not been carried out to the detriment of the other territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u52	That's not true. The minister will confirm that. It is also worth recalling the accompaniment of early childhood, with the development of crèches, and the educational continuity, with the project, that we carry with several of you, educational city. In addition, resources have been allocated to improve the living environment and urban renewal projects – I have already mentioned them. Dear Stéphane Peu, we also share the struggle, led by many of you, against unworthy habitat: I refer you to the ELAN law. I would also like to recall the means allocated to security, with the first deployments of the daily security police – 300 additional police officers have been deployed, especially in two identified neighbourhoods of the Seine-Saint-Denis. In the area of justice, the number of judges, assistants and clerks deployed has been more favourable than in recent years. My third conviction is that it is not only a matter of applying all the measures I have mentioned, but also of going further. It would be easy and demagogy to pretend that everything will improve tomorrow, so that will not be the meaning of my point. It is with determination and humility, on the other hand, that I will say, after you, on behalf of the Government, that we will not let go. The presence of four members of the Government for this evening's debate is proof of the importance it attaches to the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, you have made fourteen proposals. Without mentioning each of them – we will do so in the course of the debate – I would like to go back to the method proposed by the Prime Minister, who has sent you a letter, as well as to all the Members of Parliament over the last few hours, in which he clearly states that it is a matter of adapting public action to the challenges of the Seine-Saint-Denis and to the needs of the inhabitants. The territorial approach, which you have all mentioned, is the first objective of this method. It is a question of starting from the uncompromising diagnosis that you have established and that we may not share all the points: however, in the end, our finding is the same and that is what matters. The second objective is to work only on solutions: the time for diagnosis has passed! The third objective, Mr.Peu, is to find the appropriate solutions to improve the daily lives of the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis, with the local authorities, in the spirit of the Dijon Pact, namely with full respect for the competences of each – the state, the local authorities and all the actors. The Prime Minister has decided to implement this approach by following a very precise method. Several working groups will be established and will meet shortly. They will discuss the main points raised by the rapporteurs and more general questions. Thus, a first working group will be devoted to health, a second to justice, a third to safety, a fourth to education, and another to the attractiveness of the posts of civil servants in the Seine-Saint-Denis department – a very important subject mentioned by Mr Lagarde. The Prime Minister proposes that these working groups be co-led by a representative of the State or judicial authority and a representative of the communal bloc or, more broadly, local authorities. All Members who wish to do so will be involved in their work. Yes, rapporteurs, we're going to have to be innovative. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is not all about means, as a number of you said a few moments ago. It is also a matter of efficiency, organisation, political choices and attractiveness – an attraction that we must all succeed in finding for this department. Finally, it is purely and simply a question of fairness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u53	Equal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u54	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I share what has been said: the inhabitants of Seine-Saint-Denis do not ask for alms, but simply the same rights as others – not formal rights, but real rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u55	That would be a lot already!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u56	You're angry with equality, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u57	We come to the questions. Mr. François Cornut-Gentille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u58	Honorary Member of the Seine-Saint-Denis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u59	The debate on methodology is important. Some of the Government's proposals are positive, and the presence of four members of the Government this evening in our Chamber is not nothing! The proposed method of work seems to me to be perfectable, but it is not nothing either! I would like to stress one point which I believe is essential and which will enable me to judge the credibility of the Government's approach. The subject of the population, which was mentioned earlier, is central. In Seine-Saint-Denis, the population is exploding; the number of inhabitants is not known even though it makes it possible to determine the amount of the allocations of the local authorities and public associations and services need this information to start working. Knowledge of the population is the b.a.-ba of the state. Given the curves, it may be thought that this department will soon be the most populous in the Paris region. If we really want republican fairness, if we want the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis to have access to public services equal to that of other French people, it is absolutely essential to know the population well. I do not see any proposal on this subject, Madam Keeper of the Seals, Ministers, Secretary of State. I ask you to convey my concern to the Prime Minister or even to the President of the Republic, because I think this is a major issue. We could probably start with a phase of experimentation to estimate the number of inhabitants – brilliant polytechnicians will invent piles of formulas to approach reality – but then we will have to organize a census. In France, the debate on immigration is rather fantasy, but these fantasies are probably due to a lack of knowledge of reality. I ask you to relay my proposals: this is the credibility of the state's approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u60	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Isabelle Florennes and Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde also applaud]] Accept to work, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, on the issue of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u62	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u63	Mr rapporteur, we all share the same objective. It is impossible to find good solutions if we do not start from the same point of view. Be sure that the ministers we are do not seek to prevent a precise diagnosis of the situation or to say that the number of inhabitants of the department is less than reality. You are making a very specific proposal to link the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – INSEE – for example to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u64	This is just a proposal to open the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u65	Personally, I do not think that is the right solution. What's the bottom line? Some might believe that INSEE censuses do not take into account people in an irregular situation. Normally, according to the methodology used by INSEE, these people are well taken into account, but your report highlights the fact that this methodology is not shared by local elected officials, by the elected representatives of the field you are. This is therefore a subject on which we must work. I am not convinced of the solution advocated in your report, but I am determined to move forward on this important issue. We can study the working methods of INSEE, but also other observatories. For example, the ministry for which I am responsible has developed a real observatory of territories. It will also be one of the missions of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, which will be created shortly and which will help us to shed light on the real situation in order to find the best solutions. Be sure, Mr rapporteur, that we share your concern. If we want to find the right solutions, we have to start from a shared observation that corresponds to reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u66	The next question is by Mr François Cornut-Gentille.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u67	[[Applause on several benches of the LR and GDR groups]] It also covers methodology and working groups. On the issues raised, the steering of these groups by the prefect will no doubt be very useful in taking stock, in particular of the inequality denounced. But let me remind you of the second aspect of my report: on some issues, the situation is much more than unequal! For example, to fight against the underground economy that destabilizes everything, we can send CRS or the daily security police, but we completely miss the subject! What tool should we use against the underground economy, which destabilizes all social life and even city politics? Despite his expertise, I am not sure that Mr. Prefect of Seine-Saint-Denis is entitled to speak on these matters. On these new tools, there is really something to innovate! It seems to me that we should deal with these issues directly with the relevant ministries – so we should have another level of discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u68	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u69	I have been succinct in the presentation of the methodology of these working groups. At the same time, I am replying to Mr Little: this division of powers between the State and local authorities must be in line with the logic of the Dijon Pact, which was initially carried out by associations of elected representatives, in order to find solutions together. It is true that some subjects fall within the scope of the sovereign missions of the State, but no working group will limit itself to a dialogue between the prefectures and local elected representatives: we commit ourselves to ensuring that all the administrations of all the ministries we represent are fully involved in this work. It is not at all a question of restricting the debate to the local level. If we were not to take full account of the situation and if our will were not so strong, we would not be four members of the Government to have moved this evening to answer all your questions, with determination but also with great humility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u70	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u71	The Seine-Saint-Denis is a department that has been in difficulties for many years, as the report of MM. Cornut-Gentille and Kokouendo are the basis for this debate. I want to talk about the situation of justice. The parliamentary report relays the alarm cry of the justice professionals in this department. Under-staffed, turnover, early career staff, high absenteeism: due to these combined difficulties, the processing time for cases is well above the national average. It is necessary to provide answers! The parliamentary report points out that a mere increase in resources is not usually enough to solve the problems encountered by the State services in this department. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Alain Ramadier also applauds]] It is precisely, Madam Keeper of the Seals, one of the objects of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill that our assembly should soon adopt definitively. In addition to a significant increase in the resources allocated to justice, this text will allow judges and registry staff to focus on their core business. It will also simplify certain procedures so that courts can become more efficient. In addition, the merger of trial and trial courts should allow for greater flexibility in the distribution and organization of the number of judges and administrative staff. Madam Keeper of the Seals, could you give us details of the expected benefits of the reform for the functioning of justice in Seine-Saint-Denis?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u72	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u73	Madam Member, it would take me hours to answer your question, as it is vast! The increase in the staff of the Bobigny Court is necessary, both for magistrates and for registry staff. If it has already been started for the former, it is in progress for the latter: by May, twenty additional registry staff will be assigned to the Bobigny court. Beyond this question, you asked me very precisely what the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law will change. Many provisions will make it possible to change the justice system. For example, the merger of trial and trial courts, which will maintain all sites and may even increase the jurisdiction of trial courts in certain places, will lead to improvements in the distribution of registry staff. On the other hand, civil proceedings will become simpler, clearer and more legible, which will shorten the time limits, for example in divorce proceedings – Ms Autain raised this issue. I could also refer to the easing of the duties of judges, particularly with regard to guardianship: while preserving the protection of persons placed under guardianship, we will alleviate the work of the judge. Finally, I could mention a number of provisions relating to criminal procedure: I am thinking in particular of the deferred appearance procedure before the criminal court, which will allow the court to be brought with a preliminary detention limited to two months when the guilt of the accused appears to be established but there are still a few procedural acts to be completed. This procedure can be used in particular in Bobigny in the case of mules, which carry dumplings of narcotics...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u74	Thank you, Madam Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u75	...but whose infringement cannot be proved until the investigation is completed. This bill therefore contains many provisions that will improve the functioning of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u76	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u77	This debate on the Seine-Saint-Denis seems to me to be very important. We owe it to the excellent work of our colleagues Rodrigue Kokouendo and François Cornut-Gentille. As everyone said this evening, the Seine-Saint-Denis has the difficulties. While 10 per cent of the population is affected by the RSA, the poverty rate is 28.5 per cent, which is much higher than in the rest of the hexagon. It has been said that the Seine-Saint-Denis is one of the most contrasting areas in the Paris region, as this department suffers the contradictions of the capital which exports its factories, its polluting services and the housing of its workers while remaining an important landowner. Indeed, the Seine-Saint-Denis has welcomed a large labour force from all the provinces of France, then from all the countries of Europe and the world. Even today, it is a territory of entry of poverty into our country. In view of this, the results of public policies are not up to date. At school, for example, 18.5 per cent of students in the public sector are at least one year behind schedule – this figure is 12.8 per cent for the entire French territory. In terms of city policy, policies specific to priority neighbourhoods too often hide the fact that common law policies are not respected and that the Seine-Saint-Denis is not treated in the same way as the rest of the country. The report of the National School System Assessment Board – CNESCO – in October 2018 stated that this territory was a complex one. It has the largest number of teachers under the age of 30, and the stability rate of teachers is much lower than in the most favoured schools. The teachers of Seine-Saint-Denis asked for an appointment to try to correct the situation. We know that this territory has assets: its youth, undoubtedly poor, is full of energy; its teachers are remarkable; His elected representatives – I see them here – are ready to devote themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u78	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u79	What will the Government do to ensure a better educational success in Seine-Saint-Denis and thus guarantee republican equality?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u80	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u81	This essential question would obviously take more than two minutes. By hearing the diagnoses that are made, I often want to distinguish between real and false problems. I believe, like Member of Parliament François Cornut-Gentille, that we must have well-established diagnoses. I would also like us to hunt for some misconceptions, and first of all the fact that there would be less human resources in the Seine-Saint-Denis. That is not true and it is useless to repeat it – you did not say it – because that is not the real problem. At the beginning of the school year, we will be beating the highest rate of supervision at primary school in Seine-Saint-Denis, rising to 6.07, the French rate being 5.62. It is therefore of no use to describe a pseudo-unrighteousness, which does not exist from this angle. The problem is more about the youth of the staff and the lack of stability of the teams: it is on this point that we must work. Among the measures we are considering, new bonuses will make jobs in REP+ more attractive: this is a very important point. We will also pursue a policy of managing local human resources that will ensure the mix of ages and the gender mix of teachers in Seine-Saint-Denis. A qualitative human resources policy is therefore very important and could be accompanied by housing policies – probably not just for national education – as the quality of life of teachers is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u82	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u83	They must be safe, well housed and happy to be here if we want them to stay. So we need to change our assignment rules and career rules. It is around these qualitative stakes that the desired evolutions are played out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u84	Thank you for closing, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u85	I've exhausted my time, haven't I?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u86	Yes! We are bound by the two-minute rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u87	I shall therefore continue my remarks earlier because there are still other things to be said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u88	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u89	There would obviously be a lot to say about everything we've heard. So I want to get into practical work. You see, like us, the difficulties: there is a need to strengthen the means and above all the quality – I am not talking about the quality or the good will of teachers but about their experience. For having been a student and a pawn in Seine-Saint-Denis for a few years, I saw the difference between an installed teacher and a teacher who is not. But that is not the purpose of my question. I've been trying to move the subject forward for years. In the near future, three-year enrolment in nursery schools will be compulsory. It has always been considered that children, including allophones, i.e. those who do not speak French, bathe in an ocean of French in kindergarten and thus learn French, from three years to six years, without the help of a teacher in a position to teach them the language, because their teacher does not actually have these skills. There are schools in Seine-Saint-Denis – I know some in my constituency and even in my commune – where two thirds of the children in a class are allophone: they don't bathe in an ocean of French; They often come from the same community and speak their language at school. Mrs Buffet, whose constituency is close to mine, sees which neighbourhood I want to talk about. Thus, 60 to 70 per cent of children between the ages of three and six are completely useless: they learn nothing, we waste the money of the taxpayer and the time of the teachers. Imagine what the idea of school is for this child, at this important age, and what an idea his family has of the school institution! When I was a mayor, I learned to read, write and speak French to parents, but national education did not do so for children. [[Ms Isabelle Florennes and Mr Laurent Garcia applaud]] I am not asking for a general measure, but the President of the Republic is talking about differentiated policies. In some schools, in our department, we need to know how to differentiate by assigning a teacher of French as a foreign language in these classes: otherwise, we will have started to reject these children before they even set foot in our school system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u90	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education and Youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u91	Mr President Lagarde, your intervention allows me to extend my remarks from a moment ago on qualitative aspects. This subject concerns first of all our ability to ensure the reception of allophone pupils in specialized structures – academic centres for the schooling of newly arrived allophone children and children from travelling families and travellers, known as CASNAV; major efforts are already being made by national education in this area. This also requires special training of teachers, particularly in kindergarten. This is the direction in which the policies that we are taking are taking, since if we move towards a specific certification at the nursery school in France, it will include this dimension. It is within the framework of my earlier statement, that of community human resources management, that this can be done. However, it is important to stress that educational policies are closely dependent on other policies, including how people are distributed within a given territory. In the case you are referring to, it would seem that this is one of the data of the problem. I'm very open about this. Our discussions must lead to a number of very concrete elements, the problems being fairly widely identified. For my part, our discussions will allow me to set out several elements. Thus, on the question of the replacement rate, I will make the same observation as before: the means of replacement existing in the Seine-Saint-Denis are higher than the national average. I heard an association complaining that the same teacher had been replaced seventeen times a year by a different person. This is obviously a huge problem, but it is not so much due to the lack of alternative means – it is incredible that national education can replace 17 times! – that the fact that it was necessary to call seventeen times a replacement! Why such absenteeism, what are the root causes of it: this is the real question that must be posed lucidly. In general, care must be taken not to systematically attribute this situation to a lack of resources: this is sometimes the case but not always. The stakes are more qualitative: the stability of the staff, how we affect them, how they adapt their training to specific situations, and also the distribution of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u92	We must also see where we can accommodate these people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u93	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u94	Victims of cardiac arrest are now twice as likely to die in Seine-Saint-Denis as in central Paris or Hauts-de-Seine: this is what a study revealed at the end of last year. No mystery about the causes of this scandal: lack of emergency training, lack of financial and human resources, not enough defibrillators, not enough vehicles, not enough personnel. The inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis pay the costs of this failure of the State and sometimes pay it, literally, for their lives. The department is the most devoid of France as general practitioners, with only 58 practitioners per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to 79 on the other side of the peripheral according to the health insurance. This finding of a critical failure in the field of health could be extended to all areas of government action; The report presented by my colleagues Cornut-Gentille and Kokouendo showed this in a clear and precise way. Education, security, justice, housing, transportation: all public services are breathless or failing. In the department, 10,000 households to be housed under the enforceable right are still waiting for housing; 106000 applications for social housing are also pending. These terrible situations lead to multiple illnesses, including in children, due to unsanitaryness, coldness, humidity, forced cohabitation with rats, in addition to the distress caused by waiting, uncertainty, the impossibility of having a normal family life, in housing that is too small. In the face of urgency, the time has come for restorative action. We're still waiting for him. The situation gets worse every day, even as your policy continues to deepen inequalities. My question is therefore simple: what means will you implement to guarantee the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis equality – not equity – in the face of health?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u95	Exactly: equality and not equity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] When will you recruit a corps of medical officers assigned primarily to medical deserts, both in rural and suburban areas? At last, the Republic must keep its promise of equality, and territorial inequality must finally stop breaking lives and sometimes killing, just behind the gates of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u97	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u98	I don't want to start my answer with a semantic debate, but every time I say the word "equity," I hear "equality." To be clear, and that is how I have finished my remarks, our aim is to achieve equality of real rights. But for that, we are obliged to go through a policy of equity, which means giving more, doing more or acting more strongly for those who, in our territories, need it most. In order to achieve this real equality at the end, we must go through a policy of equity, that is, adapted to the specificities. I really want to be very clear on this point because there is no will hidden behind a semantic incomprehension: it would be the worst thing. You're asking me about the means. This is a real subject, which we have not avoided until now. You evoked the unsanitary nature of housing; we could talk about urban renewal, but not just: we have launched a set of initiatives concerning degraded condominiums; We have passed financial legislation to encourage the rehabilitation of housing. However, it would be tantamount to looking at this subject through the little bit of the lorgnette, that is, only from the point of view of means. As we have just demonstrated for education, this subject is not just about means: it is also about political choices – we must say so – and the courage to make decisions. To take up the example cited by President Lagarde earlier, concerning the housing of civil servants, particularly those of the State, the latter has an obligation to house thousands of civil servants on his contingents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u99	He doesn't house them: we pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u100	Thus, 5 per cent of the State's contingents must be dedicated to civil servants; But we don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u101	It's true, we're the ones who put them in!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u102	It is not a question of means but ultimately of political choice. In the working groups, that is also what we will have to analyse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u103	What about health? No answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u104	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u105	First of all, the Seine-Saint-Denis does not demand charity. I even want to reverse my point: the Seine-Saint-Denis is full of wealth, full of energy, full of knowledge, full of culture and initiatives. That's right, the Seine-Saint-Denis! When we cross our cities, we see a lot of initiatives. The challenge is therefore that France assures these people all their rights so that this wealth benefits our country as a whole, that the young people of the Seine-Saint-Denis will teach tomorrow in all the regions of France, with their knowledge and their qualities: this is what we ask! I will take the example of sports practice. We welcome such a champion in such a city of the Seine-Saint-Denis, such a champion in such another city of this department, but do we know under what conditions the hours of EPS – physical and sports education – in class or sports practice in club? With 16 sports facilities per 10,000 inhabitants, compared to an average of 46 in France, there is a real problem of access to sports practice, which is a right. I heard the President of the Republic say last night, in the debate, that he was not happy with what the organizing committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games – OCOG was doing. But this one is doing his job very well! He was very attentive to the needs of the elected representatives, but he was not intended to draw up the catch-up plan for the Seine-Saint-Denis in the field of sports equipment: it was up to the Government to send him in contact with the local authorities. We need a real catch-up plan, as we got a good catch-up plan for the school a few years ago, which really gave rise to national education in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u106	Exactly! Thanks to Maurice Leroy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u107	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] What is true for sports practice in general is even more true for swimming learning. I therefore turn to the minister for a specific question: why, when the learning of swimming takes place during school time, would national education not participate in the remuneration of the master swimmers rescuers? This would greatly help the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u108	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u109	Thank you for this question about sport in its connection with education. We have often had the opportunity to talk about this concerning several places in the Seine-Saint-Denis. You have pointed out, Mr Ramadier, the presence in the gallery this evening of the president of the departmental council: it is also a beautiful illustration of the positive trends at work. I thank you for what you said when you started because those who know and love the Seine-Saint-Denis know very well that we can tell several Seine-Saint-Denis, which will be both exact. One can tell a Seine-Saint-Denis of difficulty, inequality and discrimination, and one will be right, but one can also tell a Seine-Saint-Denis of success, of success, of republican equality, of great social ascents, and we will also be right. It is important to say so because it is also by insisting on this second aspect that virtuous circles will be set in motion. I could talk to you for hours – perhaps a little less than you, because you know her even better than I do – about this successful Seine-Saint-Denis. Yesterday, I was in a college in Seine-Saint-Denis – I say it in front of the president of the departmental council, who has invested a lot in colleges in recent years – with Tony Estanguet, the minister of sports and the minister of disability. We celebrated Olympic and Paralympic Week in a very well-equipped facility for sport, with very well-trained students. Next year we will be able to announce classes with timetables in Seine-Saint-Denis. I know that this is something the president of the departmental council is waiting for, like many actors from Seine-Saint-Denis. This is progress for the Seine-Saint-Denis. The Minister of Sports Roxana Maracinanu makes know-how his priority. We have joint projects to make the best use of existing sports facilities, especially at the beginning of the year, since we will not build dozens of swimming pools in no time: it is through the conception of time that we will succeed in making this savoir-nager particularly present in Seine-Saint-Denis, since 50% of the students in this department escape today. This joint work exists. For a number of years, progress has been made on each criterion. Our strategy is very related to the Olympic Games. The Seine-Saint-Denis is very well placed in this dynamic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u110	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot, for the Libertés et territoires group, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u111	The fight against sleep merchants must be a imperative requirement of the State's missions in Seine-Saint-Denis, but also everywhere in France. In Seine-Saint-Denis, the potentially unworthy private park would reach a rate of 7.5%, with peaks of 20% to 40% near Paris. The exploitation of distress must stop! The frailties of some of our fellow citizens cannot continue to be exploited to enrich vile owners. Housing is an essential element of integration and quality of life. That is why the unworthy habitat, which is a shame for our country, must be fought more than ever. News regularly shows us how necessary this is. Therefore, in line with proposal No 11 of the report, which aims to strengthen the fight against sleep merchants, I would like to know what measures you are planning to put in place to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u112	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u113	We have spent a great deal of time here defining the measures to combat effectively these traffickers of misery, namely the sleep traders. A few days ago I was, with the guard of the seals, the deputy Little and others, in Pierrefitte, to launch the provisions of the housing law that should allow to hunt down these merchants of sleep. Now, it is in the law, real estate professionals, real estate agencies or trustees will have to denounce these sleep merchants. Above all, you have adopted very strong measures that will allow tomorrow to treat these sleep merchants as drug traffickers and to type where it hurts, that is to say, the wallet. I have, with the guard of the seals, defined six departments, including the Seine-Saint-Denis, where these measures will be implemented in an accelerated manner. With the support of my Ministry, Mrs La Garde des Seales has set up a group dedicated to the fight against unworthy housing, which will strengthen judicial or administrative teams. All this, these new measures or this accelerated implementation, is already yielding results since the Bobigny court recently handed down exemplary sentences against a former doctor who had divided his pavilion into unhealthy dwellings. The most amazing thing is that while we were visiting, the seal guard and I, a pavilion used by a sleeper, this one saw that there were cameras and landed. This shows that these traffickers today have an unbearable sense of impunity. It is through very strong measures and exemplary decisions that we will be able to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u114	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor on the first question from the Republic on the move.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u115	I will not go back to the many assets of the Seine-Saint-Denis: its youth, its economic potential, its cultural richness. This is the paradox of our department: despite its strengths, the images that stick to its skin remain those of school failure, social fragility or insecurity. I deeply believe that these images are detrimental to the attractiveness of our department and indeed to our ability to recruit highly qualified personnel. In my view, the problem of the Seine-Saint-Denis is not simply a lack of financial resources. In fact, budget support often exists, but the posts are not filled. Our department now faces serious recruitment difficulties in all areas of activity, both in the public and in the private sector. In my view, it faces three main challenges in terms of human resources. The first is this low attractiveness. The second difficulty is that of the inexperience of the staff employed in the Seine-- Saint-Denis, especially in national education, which I know well. Too often in our department, positions are awarded to out-of-competitions, inexperienced and not sufficiently trained to teach an audience with specific difficulties. These positions are also often occupied by contractors, who, in fact, are not long-term in institutions. This leads to the last problem, that of the turnover too important. Indeed, we do not succeed in retaining agents who provide service to the public. To succeed in Seine-Saint-Denis means to get away. This is unacceptable because our institutions are struggling to sustain their actions. This important turnover is the result of the low attractiveness and inexperience of the people working in the department – of course we must not generalize: we also find many talents and people who are very committed to solving these many difficulties on a daily basis, but we must help them. In addition to the legitimate missions, we could have addressed other social issues. Yesterday, during the great debate in Evry, an elected representative declared that our territories have a specificity: that of integrating. If social mix is likely to be difficult to establish in the short term, should we not then strengthen the means of the state so that this integration mission is properly ensured and put in place all the mechanisms – bonuses, statutes – so that all posts, teachers, judges, but also social workers, are filled in a sustainable and qualitative way?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u116	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u117	Madam Member, with regard to the security services, which are an important regal mission, and therefore especially with regard to the police services, which are primarily concerned in the Seine-Saint-Denis, the subject you are referring to is indeed one of our concerns. Substantial efforts are being made with regard to the deployment of police personnel in this department. We have a lot of peacekeepers out of school there – which has been growing steadily since 2014, and surpassing the reference strength of 150 by 31 December 2018 – and we will continue this effort in line with the logic of today's debate. Our main difficulty is the attractiveness, you were right to stress it, and the loyalty: how to ensure that national police officers, like all others, can remain in this territory. In this case, 21% of peacekeepers are interns, which means little experience, and the turnover is 13%, which is higher than elsewhere. We also have significant difficulties in attracting judicial police officers. Several retention measures are under consideration to resolve these difficulties, which are aimed at creating priority areas for advancement or attracting judicial police officers, for which we are going to make an effort, I would like to announce.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u119	In Seine-Saint-Denis, the rate is only 9%, while in the Paris region it is 13% and the national average exceeds 20%. We must therefore make an effort and we will do so. What is important is this logic of loyalty. We do not exclude the idea of loyalty bonuses. All of this will be discussed in the context of the discussions that Christophe Castaner and I are going to engage with the national police trade union organizations, as we undertook last December. I confirm that attractiveness is something important for the officers of the national police as it is for the rest of the civil service, and we put the means for the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u120	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u121	As has been recalled, the Government has undertaken several reforms in Seine-Saint-Denis to repair forty years of underinvestment or even failure. But such deep-rooted problems cannot be solved in 18 months. Beyond the figures contained in the report, one of the problems facing our department is the lack of attractiveness, several of my colleagues have just pointed out. That is why I think it is essential to think about the establishment of specific arrangements. In addition to bonuses, a career accelerator to encourage long-term involvement of civil servants in the department can be a solution. Only a policy of loyalty is able to curb the too great turnover, which, for example, amounted to 25 per cent in the public service of justice last year, and this is unfortunately only one example among others. Similarly, support and easier access to housing for staff members is needed, and the Minister of National Education has just referred to this. The issue of transport is also central. Respecting the Grand Paris Express calendar, a lever for mobility and employment, is therefore crucial. Finally, the Olympic and Paralympic Games – JOP – of 2024 must be an engine for the Seine-Saint-Denis, which must accommodate 80% of the equipment. These Games must be a great springboard for employment and training, especially for young people and those who are furthest away from it. This was recalled yesterday in Courcouronnes during the discussions with the President of the Republic on the neighbourhoods covered by the city's policy. I am pleased, Minister responsible for the city, that attractiveness is one of the themes of the working groups. You talked about the paths to be explored and the necessary catch-up in terms of numbers. Can you complete your answer, particularly with regard to the Grand Paris Express calendar? And can you assure us that the JOPs will be a real lever for the Seine-Saint-Denis, not a missed opportunity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u122	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u123	We have participated in a significant number of events in several of the municipalities in your constituency, Mr. M.P., particularly in Clichy, the very type of city of Seine-Saint-Denis where mobility is the main issue. For her, 2019 will be the year of the arrival of the tram, as recalled by the mayor of the city a few days ago during his vows. In addition, the President of the Republic confirmed the commitments relating to the metro line of the Grand Paris Express during his last visit. Technical finalisation, financial finalization: the Minister of Transport announced several months ago the schedule of the Grand Paris Express and ensures its smooth running. The second part of your question is about the Olympic Games. There are two challenges. The first is the translation of this work in terms of job creation in the department. We have reached an agreement with the OCOG – the Olympic Games Organizing Committee – to ensure that all employers are subject to a number of rules, in particular that all projects reserve 10% of the hours worked for young people and people away from employment from the territories concerned, and 25% for subcontracting by SMEs and ITEs, which will promote the local fabric. But that is not enough, as the President of the Republic said yesterday – and we agree with Minister Buffet's question. It is important to ensure that all facilities benefit. I will give only one example, for lack of time: the law on the organisation of the Olympic Games has introduced the "double relaxation" permit, so that the equipment for the Olympic Games will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u124	The floor is for Mr Bruno Bilde, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u125	As everyone knows, the state retreats to the Seine-Saint-Denis and when it no longer retreats, it is that it has already completely disappeared. What this interesting parliamentary work refuses to present is the gradual, methodical and organized replacement of the Republic in many neighbourhoods, communes and territories. For years, local elected officials, community leaders, police officers, magistrates and ordinary citizens have warned about the worrying progress of political Islam in Seine-Saint-Denis and its consequences for the work of public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u126	It's an obsession!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u127	We had to wait until the release of the book Inch'allah, journalists Gérard Davet and Lhomme...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u128	[[Smile]] Navet?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u129	... to bring out this shameful and disturbing reality that our leaders do not want to assume. Even the prefect of equal opportunities in Seine-Saint-Denis...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u130	The prefect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u131	I know her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u132	... the prefect testified that "complete quarters are under the halal." The investigation revealed serious abuses in the public service. A section of the judicial police demanded that the pork be removed from the menu, and that the women no longer be in contact with the barbecue during the brigade's annual meal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u133	This has been denied!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u134	Indeed! That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u135	This episode, like many others, raises the question of the reliability and neutrality of our public services, and in particular of our security forces mobilized against Islamist terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u136	He never set foot in the Seine-Saint-Denis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u137	We've got to organize a discovery workshop for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u138	Mr Secretary of State, have the police officers reported in this case been punished? Mr Secretary of State, what is the Government planning to restore the Republic in Seine-Saint-Denis?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u139	Large program!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u140	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u141	It is difficult to answer this question in two minutes! As you know, the Government is pursuing a policy of republican reconquest in several neighbourhoods, including the Seine-Saint-Denis, where two neighbourhoods are involved. Others are under study and I know that some Members are waiting for the results of this work. This policy naturally involves the presence of the national police, a presence of proximity, with contact brigades, as well as a determined struggle against radicalisation, everywhere in France and also in Seine-Saint-Denis. This is led by the prefects, who run departmental assessment groups of radicalization allowing us to identify areas, areas where radicalized individuals are found – in places of worship, schools. The public services, the state services carry out actions to close the latter whenever possible – this has been the case in Seine-Saint-Denis with radical places of worship. We will continue to act in this direction, in very close partnership, as you know, with the local elected representatives. I thought everyone knew, now, that much of the facts related to the criminal police service to which you alluded is completely false. The officials of this unit have, moreover, largely denied them, after investigations have been carried out. On these issues, we must not allow ourselves to be exaggerated and stigmatized. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Government is taking very effective and determined action against radicalization. You can count on us to pursue it everywhere, in Seine-Saint-Denis and elsewhere in the national territory. We will close all places of worship, all out-of-contract schools that are problematic. We believe that this follow-up is extremely rigorous and that we use the measures adopted in the law that strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism to act when necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u142	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u143	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u144	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u145	The next item is questions about the organisation and implementation of police action during the mobilizations of the yellow vests. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u146	And I don't have the floor?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u147	The debate is now being held, my dear colleague. Upstream pressure is required. In this case, the list of speakers is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u148	I am very sorry to know that Mr Lassalle will not have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u149	I'll get out of the onomatopoea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u150	Thank you to all those who are here to address this important, thorny subject. For several weeks, as has often been the case throughout its tumultuous history, our country has been marked by a "social movement". As is also often the case in some mobilizations, our law enforcement forces have been the target of attacks that we do not support. We note, however, that this movement is characterized in particular by a particularly high number of demonstrators – but not only – injured by the use of materials that have been placed in the hands of the law enforcement forces. This debate is certainly not aimed at calling into question police officers, who apply orders, who follow instructions, who use the equipment provided to them. It is a question of speaking to the political authority that you are, Mr. Secretary of State, to tell you that because of the equipment used – flashball bullet launchers LBD 40, GLI-F4 de-encircle grenades – the list of our affected fellow citizens is particularly high: one death, 3000 wounded, including 44 journalists and 37 high school and under-age students, 17 people snatched, 4 hands torn. Such a record is unprecedented in our history. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is time to act, as we have said firmly in this rostrum. It is time, above all, to realize that other police equipment and techniques are being used in other European countries – I am thinking of Germany, Great Britain, Sweden, the Netherlands – which one could draw on. A tragedy, a disaster has already taken place: it is time to act politically, otherwise the complicity of the Government with these reprehensible acts will be directly established.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u151	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u152	The many questions that will be asked on this subject will allow us to explain these problems more at length than I am going to do in two minutes. I come back to the state of affairs: a social movement, demonstrations and, in many cases, violence perpetrated by a number of ultra-humans, breakers who infiltrate the processions and who, at some point, decide to attack the institutions, the forces of law and order in an extremely violent manner. I want to clarify things. When the demonstration turns into such violence fomented by a number of breakers – in general, a few hundred – there is no longer a question of the management and maintenance of public order but of the management of riots, of urban guerrillas. And it is only at that time that the intermediate means that you have mentioned are used. Typically, their use has remained within the framework of the planned employment rules. You mentioned two of these, there are others. The first is the proportionate response, during circumstances on which we will have the opportunity to return: dispersal of crowds, intervention to put an end to looting, abuses, violence. It is in this context that this intermediate material, which is indispensable, is used, in a very framed way. You mentioned a number of wounded among the demonstrators, who sometimes turned into breakers, but every time violence was suspected, the general inspection of the national police was seized. I will have the opportunity to come back to this by answering other questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u153	That's right. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u154	One of the main foundations of a state's legitimacy is that it is the only political institution to benefit from the "monopoly of legitimate physical violence" in its territory, to use Max Weber's consecrated formula. The latter, however, adds that physical violence is, of course, not the normal means or even the only means of the modern state. In this sense, in our view, it cannot be put on the same level as individuals. Since the beginning of the mobilization of yellow vests, the use of state force, of this so-called "legitimate" violence, as you have decided to exercise against thousands of fellow citizens, has been challenged by an increasing number of people and institutions: demonstrators and demonstrators, journalists, parliamentarians – of whom we are – but also human rights organisations at the national and international levels, and even within the security forces. Unfortunately, this violence is in fact inherent in your entire policy. It is the backbone of the laws passed by your majority of godillots: labour law break orders and tax gifts to the richest, a state of emergency in the common law, xenophobic anti-migrant and migrant law, until the last date, the anti-demonstrative law, the last authoritarian brick of your building. This violence is found in Orwellian rhetoric, expressions that ooze class contempt at the detour of incessant little phrases: "children", "wailing", "nothing", "refractories", until "Jojo" Yellow vest, unworthy of being placed on the same plane as your parliamentarians, ministers or president! In the street as well as in the media or institutions, your use of violence is illegitimate because it is the only substantial response and the only political instrument that you use and abuse while you are never intended to recognize the existence of violence or indicate its limits. How can we trust a power to control the use of violence that he insists on denying exercise? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I therefore reiterate my question to Mr. Castaner, not in the idea of "controlling" your actions, but in order to assess what is left of your sense of responsibility. Do you finally acknowledge that there has been a disproportionate use of police force in the management of demonstrations, and are you prepared to assume full political responsibility for it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u155	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u156	Madam Member, I'm going to make it clear. It is only when the law enforcement agencies are taken up in an extremely violent manner, when abuses are committed by breakers, that the law enforcement agencies intervene. I cannot let you say that there would be a government will to attack the demonstrators, because that is not true. Totally wrong. The police intervene whenever they are caught, whether there are abuses or violence, and it is their role to maintain public order and protect other demonstrators. We're here to frame the protests, and that's what the police and gendarmes have been doing since the beginning of the movement. Every time they had to intervene and use legitimate force, under proportionate conditions, it was because they had been assaulted or because they had found abuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u157	That's the theoretical framework!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u158	I can't let you say, let you grow up to those who listen to you, here or elsewhere, that the forces of law and order behave like attackers in the hands of a government that would use them to reduce a social movement. This is not the case at all: the police are there to restore the republican order and avoid violence. Finally, you asked me if there was a proportionate use of force. To this, I reply that 111 investigations by the General Inspectorate of the National Police – IGPN – are under way. Their purpose is to examine the circumstances surrounding certain injuries, in order to determine whether they could have been caused by a disproportionate action by the police. If that is the case, there will of course be sanctions, and first of all judicial sanctions. However, in the vast majority of cases, the use of force has been proportionate, and therefore legitimate, because it is a matter of maintaining public order and preventing violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u159	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u160	Mr. Secretary of State, it has now been more than three months since a popular protest movement, unprecedented in our country, that of yellow vests, took place. This movement is widening because, whatever the colour of the vest, it carries within it a requirement of social and fiscal justice and of the re-foundation of our institutions incompatible with the course that Emmanuel Macron intends to maintain at all costs. You are well aware that this movement is not of a violent nature and that the violence committed by the demonstrators is a minority. So it is to better decredify him that you have tried to reduce this movement to violence. By all means, you have even tried to deter participation, Mr Castaner going so far as to invent a crime of complicity for those who would peacefully participate in demonstrations that would otherwise give rise to violence! However, your role, Secretary of State, is not to discourage demonstrations, but rather to create conditions for the full exercise of the fundamental right to demonstrate. Yes, it is your role to ensure that demonstrations can take place against your own policy, not to suppress these demonstrations! Today, you have taken a new step in the authoritarian drift that now characterizes your action, restricting the right to manifest. Mr Secretary of State, in the Republic, the law enforcement agencies, as it is customary to designate them, are first of all the guardians of the peace. And in the Republic, the guardians of peace obey orders and must do only that. Therefore, they cannot be held responsible for the intolerable situation that you deny: it is your political responsibility that is engaged. On January 14, here, the Minister of the Interior stated that he did not know any police officers who had attacked yellow vests. In this case, what exactly do you have to say, Mr. Secretary of State, about the 7,000 arrests, often without judicial follow-up, of the 9228 shots of defensive bullet launchers, the 1900 wounded, the death, the eborgnes, the hands ripped off, what doctors call "war wounds"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u161	You're overdoing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u162	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...for which you bear the responsibility? How do you explain that, in demonstrations, what should be the maintenance of order increasingly appears as the methodical organization of disorder?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u163	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u164	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Listening to your question, Congressman, I feel like it's the world upside down! The role of the Minister of the Interior, his Secretary of State, the National Police, the Gendarmerie is not to organize disorder, but to supervise the demonstrations and ensure that they take place in the greatest security, with as few incidents as possible. It is our pride and honour to assume this mission...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u165	So, how do you explain these numbers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u166	... in a context where most demonstrations are not declared.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u167	That's not true! That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u168	No, it's reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u169	They are never: how do you then want to prepare the order service under normal conditions? With regard to the Parisian demonstrations, we have repeatedly reached out to the demonstrators by offering them, for example, a number of sites, which have been systematically refused: this was the case for the Champ-de-Mars, but also for the Champs-Elysées, even though no protest was ever allowed. And it was refused!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u170	When they say, "Let them come and pick me up! "You have to take on what happens next!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u171	So let's not reverse the roles. Yes, we are here to ensure that the right to manifest can be exercised freely in our country, and it is our pride and honour to assume what is our duty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u172	You missed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u173	The events you're quoting, the number of wounded, the number of LBD shots, all this is the result of overflows and abuses committed by breakers, by ultra-violent individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u174	Why are there so many wounded among the demonstrators?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u175	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You call them a minority, but I can tell you that in some cities, they're not that much of a minority, and they're here to degenerate the protests. Therefore, it is normal for law enforcement agencies to use force to stop the violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u176	All the wounded are breakers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u177	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u178	Secretary of State, there is still a disproportion. From the minister's very confession, interviewed by Jean-Jacques Bourdin, there are between 150 and 300 identified breakers in France – these are his figures, not ours. So, don't you think it's surprising that there's been 1,800 injuries already? While David Dufresne, who is doing extraordinary work on police violence, has carried out more than 300 reports, the IGPN has opened only a hundred investigations. How do you explain that? In addition, Mr. Dufresne obviously has no means of collecting by himself all the facts that would be likely to be reported on the IGPN platform. I note in passing that you have never indicated the number of reports made on this platform. I'd love to know him. With regard to law enforcement techniques, yes you organized the escalation, yes you organized the security auction by implementing a new law enforcement doctrine, that of mobility. It is therefore now smaller teams that are scattered on the ground, probably more mobile, but also more vulnerable. I assert that, by choosing these techniques, you are endangering the police and the gendarmes, who, moreover, can no longer do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u179	You're putting them in danger! Pyromane!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u180	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Today, it is professional organizations of gendarmes themselves who deplore that the presence of plainclothes policemen, disguised as breakers, hinders them in their work. Do you think that's normal, Secretary of State? We should be working on de-escalation, and yet France did not take part in the work of the GODIAC – Good practice for dialogue and communication as strategic principals for political politics events in Europe – which took place from 2010 to 2013. Is that your goal? Can you at least do with us the observation that this number of wounded is not tolerable and that we must organize the de-escalation? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You who are a former prefect, you who have led the DGSI – Directorate-General of Internal Security – and who know the field well, Mr. Secretary of State, you know how to identify breakers, untrace them, apprehend them: why don't you start this task, rather than typing in the pile?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u181	Bla blah blah.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u182	Go tell that to the protesters!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u183	You'd rather hit the state! There are breakers in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u184	There is a provocateur in the Chamber, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u185	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u186	Mr President, it is indeed 111 judicial investigations that have been entrusted to the IGPN. Furthermore, if reports have been made on the IGPN platform, I would like to inform you that they are not necessarily linked to a complaint, but may come from anyone who has witnessed acts of violence. There are a little more than 300 – I will be able to give you the exact figure in a few moments. As for Mr Dufresne's work, in order for us to be aware of the facts, there must be a complaint! And I hope they're systematically dropped off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u187	What about the self-referral, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u188	With regard to the evolution of doctrine, I confirm that after 1 December 2018, Christophe Castaner and I have evolved the doctrine of maintaining public order in order to give our workforce more mobility. This was done after discussions with the police union organizations and the representatives of the national gendarmerie, who wished for this mobility, considering it more appropriate to deal with small groups of breakers who harass the police, loot shops and commit violence. We agreed with them, considering that these more mobile forces were more reactive and more effective in allowing the interpellation of breakers. With regard to the presence of civil servants in civilian clothes, I recall that the context is that of guerrilla scenes, urban riots. These officials, who may be mobile forces – this was the case in the Republic Square last Saturday – or civilian personnel – this was the case in the Bastille Square fifteen days ago – are trained to operate as they do and thus carry out arrests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u189	But no, it was the anti-criminality squad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Finally, an injured person will always be too injured, it's obvious, whether it's a yellow vest or a policeman. But I repeat that police intervention only takes place in the case of abuses, and that we are doing everything we can to avoid violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u191	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u192	Everyone remembers the events of May 1968. Maurice Grimaud was then prefect of police in Paris, as you know, Mr. Secretary of State, since you are well aware of the history of the police, and a thorough reform of the police was carried out, covering both the modalities of the maintenance of order, the training and the supervision of the gatherings. The equipment of the security forces was also improved, which required a very substantial increase in the corresponding appropriations. If I recall this, it is because Mr Castaner recently indicated, on a radio programme, that the new forms of demonstration required the evolution of the French model of law and order, weakened and inadequate in the face of breakers organised in extremely mobile groups. This is one of the major handicaps facing law and order. What is your thinking on this point? Are you considering the creation of special anti-casseurs units that are even more mobile than today, which could eventually make you think of the "voltigeurs" on motorcycles that existed? Beyond the polemics on the LBD – I do not dispute the use that was made of it, I await the results of the investigations conducted by the IGPN, but the images are there – are you working on the possibility of using new weapons, with reduced lethality? Finally, even if comparison is not right, have you looked at what is being done to maintain order in other major democracies? All these issues seem to me to be of vital importance at a time when the current arrangements for the restoration of the republican state are being called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u193	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u194	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u195	[[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] I begin with the clarification I promised earlier: 311 reports were made on the IGPN platform. There are also 36 reports on the platform of the General Inspection of the National Gendarmerie – the IGGN – which makes 347 reports in total.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u196	Is this a joke?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u197	As for the fact that the ultra-violent breakers are sometimes known to the police and intelligence services, I confirm it to you, but when we know them, we still have to have the means to prevent them from taking part in a demonstration! This is the whole purpose of the bill adopted this afternoon, which allows for the individual prohibition of a number of individuals from participating in demonstrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u198	They must be brought before the courts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u199	I come to your questions, Mr. Vigier. Following the adaptation of the operational doctrine that Christophe Castaner and I decided on 1 December, we started a new reflection on the theme of law and order, which will lead us to formalize this doctrine aimed at greater mobility, thus improving efficiency in the face of groups of breakers themselves very mobile and seeking to disperse the forces of law and order. It seemed to us that the use of the mobile forces alone, whose mission is to maintain law and order, could be delicate when greater mobility was required. That is why we have decided to use more mobile groups, sometimes from the ranks of the mobile forces: they can be mobile gendarmes or CRS, who have learned to move quickly on the ground. Our reflection will not be limited to operational doctrine: it will also focus on the means of protection of civil servants, and in particular on their equipment. The demonstrations of the yellow vests organized throughout France showed that a few violent individuals could be enough to put police and gendarmerie personnel in difficulty whose job is not to maintain public order. To remedy this, we need to train and equip all the personnel involved in the French territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u200	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u201	Our French civil protection model, which has changed little in the last 40 years, must be adapted to the new challenges facing society. During the events of the yellow vests, policing strategies were widely criticized because they did not stop the escalation of violence, despite the professionalism and commitment that I wish to salute, of our police officers and gendarmes. The only answer was that of repression, especially because the culture of pedagogy during demonstrations is not part of the history of our policing policies. However, communication with demonstrators is an issue of de-escalation of this violence and, in Europe, many countries have integrated this mode of operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u202	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u203	The construction of a link between police "mediators" and demonstrators can thus be fully associated with the actions of the law enforcement forces during the demonstrations. This is particularly the case in the Netherlands or Sweden. In Germany, demonstrators are informed in real time about charges, evacuations and other ongoing operations through large light screens. Mr Secretary of State, do you intend to change the strategy of maintaining law and order in this direction, i.e. towards the establishment of systematic communication between the demonstrators and the police, in order to avoid the escalation of violence?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u204	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u205	Mr President, this is almost already happening! When organizers come to declare a demonstration, they discuss the route, the order service and the process. When the forces of law and order find themselves confronted with a crowd that does not give rise to violence or abuse, they obey very precise rules. When the tension starts to rise, it becomes what is called an armed crowd, which they must disperse by summations. In practice, that is what is done: the civilian leaders at the head of our forces are acting by summons. It can therefore be considered to exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u206	They're made to tear it off, soms! Nobody hears them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u207	A third tool for de-escalation, sometimes criticized or contested, is the search devices that can be used under article 78 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. They allow us to drop the tension by making sure that people don't come to the place with weapons by destination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u208	Everything you say is contradictory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u209	So this system already exists, but today we are confronted with extremely violent groups. How do you want to bring down the level of violence against black block individuals, whose only objective is to violently attack law enforcement, break, loot, attack institutions? The de-escalation process becomes very difficult. The only possible response, to this degree of violence, is that of these police officers who put an end to the abuses. But these different mechanisms exist. The very essence of the right to demonstrate lies in the declaration. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, it should be noted that in the event of public order disturbances such as those we have experienced during recent demonstrations, prefects may prohibit demonstrations. All the arrangements we made with Christophe Castaner had no other purpose but to avoid reaching this end, the prohibition of demonstrations by the prefects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u210	[[Smile]] I know what to do, but nobody asks me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u211	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u212	We regularly hear about the redistribution of wealth. Let us not forget that this wealth, which produces the daily work of men and women, must first and foremost be created. Today, however, companies are heavily affected by weekly demonstrations. Stores have been degraded and looted, warehouses have been blocked. Companies are now announcing a significant 15% to 25% decline in turnover on average. Some of them resorted to security measures and had to put employees into technical unemployment. When social movements have repercussions for our businesses, and in particular our businesses, during periods decisive for their activity, is the responsibility of the State to ensure the protection of property and persons always assured? In the face of growing violence every week, law enforcement officials have done remarkable work, focusing on protecting demonstrators and institutions, but economic actors must not be forgotten. In France, one has the right to demonstrate, one has the right to claim one's opinions, but one does not have the right to everything, and in particular to hinder freedom to undertake and the creation of value. Mr Secretary of State, what police measures have already been taken to ensure the safety of our companies? How does the Government intend to organize police action, with tolerance but without laxity, in order to strengthen the protection of our city centres and avoid further degradation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u213	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u214	The continuation of our country's economic activity is one of our major concerns. Let us recall before the national representation the tremendous work done by the police officers, the soldiers of the national gendarmerie, throughout the movement, at every blockage of commercial sites, logistic depots, major roads that could hinder the economic life of our country. The prefects, on a regular basis, carried out de-blocking actions. There is, however, one problem: the perpetuation of the movement, especially on Saturdays, in the form of demonstrations on the public road, which, I would remind you, would not pose any problems if they were carried out in a calm and non-violent manner. Unfortunately, that is not the case. When these demonstrations take place in the city centres, a large part of the clientele, frightened by the risks of overflows, deserts these areas, with serious financial consequences for the traders. Together with Christophe Castaner, we are taking action to prevent abuses and violence and to restore law and order. Unfortunately, we cannot force people to visit the city centres. It must be noted that some are deserted on Saturday afternoon, as in Toulouse, Bordeaux, in many cities. Believe that every effort is made to avoid the abuse and looting of shops as it may have happened. Our criticism of the operational doctrine of rapid intervention in the face of breakers helps in particular to avoid the looting of shops. It's essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u215	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u216	Since twelve Saturdays in a row, we have been witnessing a series of demonstrations, often violent, in different cities in our country. Some are declared, but do not necessarily follow the planned route, most are not. Obviously, the objective is to destabilize the forces of law and order. These Saturdays are not "acts": we are not in the theatre. Unfortunately, they all look the same: they are the Saturdays of violence and breakout, at any time and especially at the end of a demonstration. We all pay tribute to the courage but also to the mastery, cold-bloodedness and professionalism of our security forces: there are wounded but fortunately no deaths are to be deplored, while the protest movement was at the origin, of itself, of eleven deaths. Mr Secretary of State, how is the succession of the various forces of law and order being mobilised organized? Does this strong mobilization penalise other law enforcement missions, such as day-to-day security, the fight against terrorism, drug networks or road insecurity, or intelligence missions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u217	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u218	With regard to the fatigue of our staff, the rotations and the just rest to which they are entitled, we are working with Christophe Castaner to mobilize all our staff: both the territorial staff, who work at a duty station – gendarmerie brigades, police officers – and mobile forces. We ensure that the workload is fairly balanced. I do not hide from you that it is more difficult on Saturdays than on other Saturdays, given the mobilisation and especially the risk of anticipated violence: we are sometimes forced to strengthen the mobilization of the workforce but we then make sure to alleviate their workload within the week so that they have rest time. I recognize, however, that the overtime counter is flying away, as a result of strong mobilization, especially on Saturdays. Other missions do not suffer from this mobilization, and especially from the fight against terrorism, which falls under the responsibility of specialized intelligence services dedicated to their mission and which continue to devote themselves to it. The same applies to the daily security police, as we ensure that law enforcement agencies are spread throughout the country throughout the week. On Saturdays, however, we may mobilize the staff of certain police stations or gendarmerie brigades, which are thus assigned to the management of public order and not to their security mission. But we are making sure that this remains exceptional. In any case, this has no effect on the level of ordinary delinquency, apart from the excesses in the movement of yellow vests, which consist mainly of damage to property and attacks on law enforcement personnel. We continue to carry out our missions, be assured of them. Here or there, a few football matches can be postponed but the professional league understands it very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u219	Mr. Thomas Rudigoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u220	I would like to ask you about the intelligence services' efforts to detect individuals who are members of extreme left-wing or extreme right-wing groups who have infiltrated the manifestations of the yellow vests. At the extreme left, our law enforcement forces were again confronted with the libertarian movement, or "antifa", which repeats violence every year, as we witnessed on 1 May with the black blocs. These activists, who were broken during the clashes, co-ordinate on social networks and then equip themselves with the perfect equipment to inflict heavy human and material damage on the law enforcement forces and to ruin windows, vehicles and urban furniture. Their objectives are openly insurrectional. They claim violence against democracy and the institutions of our Republic. In contrast, the mobilization of the yellow vests also allowed the extreme right identity groups to beat the pavement again. Thus, Yvan Benedetti, spokesman for the French nationalist party, stood out on 1 December in fights against the antifas on the margins of the Parisian demonstration. But it seems that extreme right-wing violence originated mainly from informal groups: "Ouest Casual" or "Zouaves Paris", at the junction of the GUD and skinhead, racist and hooligan circles. Finally, a report by France 3 revealed that the order service of the demonstration on Saturday 19 January was provided by paramilitaries close to the extreme right, who served in Ukraine within pro-Russian militias and proudly pose on Facebook, weapons by hand. It's pretty disturbing. There is no question of whether or not these "ultras" are fervent yellow vests or mere breakers: they have clearly incited hatred and plunged some demonstrators into the spiral of violence to go to direct contact with law enforcement. They have therefore been closely monitored by the police. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Secretary of State, could you explain to us, with due respect for the secrecy of the investigation, the work of territorial intelligence prior to each mobilization?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u221	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u222	You are asking a sensitive question, since this is the activity of the intelligence services. It is true that ultra-right, ultra-left, anarcho-autonomous mobilities may have been at the origin of certain overflows. It is obvious, more or less pronounced according to the cities. It is quite difficult for me to say more, but I can at least reassure you that the intelligence services are working on the subject. Their action, since the development of the yellow vest movement and the involvement of a number of ultra-movements, has obviously focused on these themes and the monitoring of these individuals in order to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. You will understand that I can't tell you any more. But a will of kerneling is indeed at work, as well as, in some members of the yellow vests, a desire to be seduced by these ultra-movements which, sometimes, worry. I'm not saying that's the case with the majority, but the whole set creates sometimes explosive cocktails, without a bad pun.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u223	Mr Hugues Renson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u224	For almost three months, the movements in our country have led to unacceptable overflows in many cities, especially in Paris. The Parisians are worried. Worried for their safety, of course, and for public order, but also concerned for the lives of their businesses and for the economy. Thus, in Paris, traders, residents and tourists saw the city stop living for several consecutive Saturdays. Damage of several million euros is to be seen and it is taxpayers, businesses and the community that will ultimately have to pay. Moreover, since the beginning of the movement, more than 1,700 victims have been identified by the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, most of whom are traders and private individuals. After the trauma, they must take long steps to obtain the help and resources available. Of course, I want to give them my full support here. And when, Saturday after Saturday, our capital becomes a waste as much as a place of desolation, our forces of law and order show great composure and remarkable professionalism. As has already been done, they must be greeted, as must the rescue teams. In this context, there can be no doubt: if mistakes are committed by police officers, investigations must be carried out, as you have said, and the culprits must be punished. As you said, the modes of operation must be evaluated, and certainly improved, but not everything is worth it, I believe. The police and the gendarmes are there to protect us and to allow the Parisians to find a normal life on the weekend. Adopting another speech would obviously be irresponsible. Could you tell us, Mr Secretary of State, what concrete actions have been taken and what operational measures will be implemented so that public order can return to Paris and the Parisians can find, as soon as possible, every Saturday, calm and secure?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u225	[[Smile]] Smells like town halls!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u226	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u227	The situation in Paris is probably atypical, since it is the capital, and abuses necessarily have a much greater impact than in other cities. But we treat them the same way. I insist: we divide forces in such a way as to protect the province as well as Paris. But you are right to point out that the impact of these abuses in Paris is very important, particularly on the tourist economy. We are trying to get organizers of these Saturday demonstrations, say yellow vests, declarations, so as to know which routes they will take. This was the case on the last three Saturdays, and it must be noted that, during the processions, much fewer incidents occurred. The problem is the location of dispersal. That is the important thing. We are, of course, making sure that these routes and places of dispersion are different from Saturday to Saturday, in order to penalise as little as possible the areas visited. The second thing is that we maintain public order in the capital on Saturday after Saturday. Almost no shop looting – this is our biggest concern – has happened there any more. There may be some degradation of urban furniture here or there, star windows, but no looting. This is what we are working with Christophe Castaner to ensure by mobilizing the personnel of the prefecture of police in Paris, reinforced by mobile forces gathered in numbers in the capital. We will of course continue this action, paying particular attention to the fact that it seems that some people responsible for the yellow vest movement consider that declaring the demonstration is to be "too kind" and "too conciliatory" with the forces of law and order. We will always answer present.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u228	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u229	Thucydides, in his History of the Peloponnese War, assures that "of all the manifestations of power, the one that impresses men most, is restraint". This maxim could summarize the French doctrine of law and order. It was designed in such a way as to reconcile the maintenance of public order and the freedom to demonstrate, with a focus on the safety of persons. The French doctrine of law and order is based, first of all, on the avoidance, as long as possible, of physical contacts between demonstrators and law enforcement officials, and of the violence and injuries they may cause. Secondly, it presupposes respect by law enforcement officials for collective techniques and strategies. Finally, it provides for the use of force only as a last resort and specifies that, if it is to be used, it is graduated, necessary and proportionate. However, during the demonstrations of the yellow vests, we observed very violent overflows, with jets of projectiles, granite paving stones, acid, petanque balls, and molotov cocktails against the police. These recent demonstrations bring together heterogeneous, uncoordinated, unorganized groups, with the emergence of highly mobile groups and extremely violent individuals, who have come to deal with them and to cause human and material damage. The strength of the French model of law and order is to have known, over the years, always renewed, to adapt constantly to new contexts in order to guarantee a more appropriate security response. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In view of the recent events, Mr. Secretary of State, you have indicated that you wish to review the French doctrine of policing, in order to avoid the repetition of the violence we experienced during the mobilization of the yellow vests. I would like to know how our law enforcement techniques and doctrine, which have long been and remain a model for many countries, will be revised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u230	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u231	Your description of the doctrine of law and order is perfectly correct, Madam. It is first of all a doctrine of avoidance: during a demonstration, the police officers and the gendarmes in charge of the supervision do not show themselves, to speak familiarly, and let the demonstration take place. They do not go to contact, except, of course, in the event of abuses or the risk of violence, or, a fortiori, when groups of breakers take action and attack the forces of law and order. But for the past two years, we have seen an evolution, which is older than the movement of the yellow vests. It began, in particular, during the social protest against the so-called El Khomri law: it is the appearance, in some demonstrations, of breakers, who soon, in an extremely violent manner, attack the forces of law and order by throwing them, as you said, weapons by destination that could very well kill them. All this has led to a modified doctrine of law and order, which places less emphasis on avoidance and more on the ability to intervene as quickly as possible and in the most mobile way possible, in order to put an end to the abuses of these breakers. Hence the revision of the doctrine to which we are proceeding. But I insist: the presence of breakers in the demonstrations has given rise to further adaptations of the doctrine. The work of the intelligence services, which I was talking about earlier, allows us to first detect the presence of undesirable individuals. And there are also the administrative police measures that we can implement in the vicinity of demonstrations, such as excavations, which are essential. We are therefore changing the doctrine to adapt it to the new evolution of the manifestations, which are increasingly cored by ultra-violent groups, which come to cause them to degenerate. We must be able to respond as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u232	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u233	I would like to begin by commending all the forces of law and order that have been specifically mobilized for the past three months, in the various expressions that this social movement has known. I see that, in this Chamber, some are sometimes very harsh on the action of our law enforcement agencies. I personally consider that, while criticism is always possible, the role of an elected member of the Republic is first of all to defend the symbols of the State. I have several questions to ask you, Secretary of State. I was referring to a strong mobilization of our law enforcement forces. Some even talked about over-mobilization. Can you quantify it in terms of days worked and overtime recorded? With regard to overtime, do you have enough money to pay them? Will the exceptional bonus of 300 euros per agent mobilised during these events complement the remuneration for the hours worked? This mobilization of law enforcement forces has led, as we all know, to a number of attacks on people. Can you tell us how many policemen or gendarmes were injured during the demonstrations? Several of us have been aware of cases of inadequate protective equipment. What investments do you intend to make, and within what time frame, to remedy these situations? Finally, can you tell us how many complaints have been lodged on the grounds of police violence? [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] On some of the methods used, I received last week at my duty a delegation of yellow vests describing to me a systematic use of tear gas by law enforcement officials, particularly in Caen and Evreux, sometimes before any start of conflict. Can you tell us what the instructions given in this regard are?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u234	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u235	I am not in a position, honourable Member, to quantify overtime related to over-mobilization of forces. What I know is that the meters are running and that, as Christophe Castaner announced – and this is the first to do – a negotiation will open on the payment of these hours. This will not happen in a year, but we will start the construction. The bonus you mentioned, which no longer amounts to 300 euros, will only apply to commissioners and officers. It was converted into an additional allowance. This was the subject of the wage negotiations that we conducted with the national police trade unions and gendarmerie representatives in December. An indemnification is therefore well planned. As for protective equipment, that is a real question. More and more police officers and gendarmes were engaged in policing, because roundabouts were blocked everywhere, without having been equipped for it. We believe that we must anticipate this situation, and that we must be able to equip all of our staff with uniforms for the maintenance of law and order. This effort will be made throughout this year and the next, and will be integrated into the future doctrine of the maintenance of public order. As far as complaints are concerned, the IGPN platform received, as I said earlier, a little over 300 reports – which are not necessarily complaints. The complaints before the IGPN are followed by judicial investigations, which number 111, of which 36 concern the use of the gun launcher, as we said last week before the Council of State. Of these 36 complaints, 19 are almost certainly related to the use of this launcher. As for the use of tear gas, it is one of the intermediate weapons. It propells itself either by grenade or by tear gas bomb, and is never, of course, used only in situations of aggression, or to disperse people who come into contact in a way that is too aggressive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u236	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u237	Our security forces do not have to be ashamed of the very professional way in which law enforcement is ensured in our country, and in the Drôme department in particular, as I have seen. I want to talk about the unwavering commitment of our police officers, gendarmes and firefighters throughout these protest Saturdays. They were no longer demonstrations at the end of the day, but rather urban violence. Every Saturday morning, upon arriving at the scene, often before seven o'clock, our security forces do not know what they are going to suffer. Because mobilization fluctuates, and the profiles of yellow vests change, especially at the end of the day, when breakers arrive. At the heart of the protests, the police seek to identify the agitators to apprehend them. They are subjected to insults, provocations and the aggressiveness of the breakers, who seek absolutely to derail the situation. While they are exhausted, at the end of the day, after twelve to fifteen hours of vacation without pause, they face levels of violence never reached, with people increasingly equipped and armed. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] Last Saturday, several police officers were injured during demonstrations in Valencia, and more than 100 weapons and dangerous objects were seized. This climate of insecurity can no longer last. So, Mr. Secretary of State, are you finally going to bring the representatives of the yellow vests together to put an end to the demonstrations of yellow vests through negotiations, without waiting until March 15th?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u238	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u239	On the record, honourable Member, I share the definition of urban violence that you have used. Many observers ask us to compare law enforcement practices in France and in other European countries in order to assess the use of intermediate force: we answer in particular that law enforcement should not be confused with the management of riots and urban violence. The demonstrations that we undergo every Saturday, when they overflow, are more like urban violence than strict policing. Our police officers are indeed tired at the end of the day, which only reinforces my conviction, and that of Christophe Castaner, that they respond courageously and decisively, since despite the fatigue they manage to act proportionately and maintain the republican order. With regard to Valencia, as you have seen, Madam Commissioner, the Prefect of Drôme has communicated all the weapons by destination seized prior to the demonstrations, which justifies the need for further searches. This shows that some individuals come to demonstrations to physically attack the police in an extremely violent manner, and certainly not to demonstrate peacefully. With regard to the negotiation that we should enter into with the yellow vests in the context of the demonstrations, the Government must negotiate with very disparate individuals, who do not even appear in the prefectures to file statements. As we recall, any event organizer must go to the prefecture and file a declaration. To carry out our public order management mission, we do not have to engage in dialogue. This, and the political debate, are taking place in another forum. A great national debate is opening up, which gives some the opportunity to express themselves fully.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u240	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u241	For the past twelve weeks, our law enforcement agencies have been mobilized, together with our civil security forces, throughout the national territory, to frame an unprecedented popular expression movement. Despite tension, violence and fatigue, they act with professionalism that honours them and thus guarantees the freedom to demonstrate in our democracy. They are essential and yet they are targeted. More than a thousand of them have been injured since November 17. It's intolerable. This debate must be an opportunity to pay them a sustained and sincere tribute, the tribute of a nation to its daughters and sons, the faces of a Republic committed to its values, freedoms and history. Congratulations and honor to them! To attack them, their uniform, their coat of arms, is to commit an aggression against France. Let us not be mistaken about the debate. While the unbearable violence against them, observed in several parts of the country, has highlighted their difficult working conditions and the need to adapt our devices to breakers, some today would like to call into question the use of defence equipment, opposing the bill that we have just voted for this afternoon. We must show consistency in our support for the forces of law and order, not only in our words but also in our actions, by giving them the means, legal and budgetary, to carry out their mission. On these subjects, unity of the country is possible. It is desirable. Our policemen, our gendarmes, deserve it. The Republican Group is committed to this – we have demonstrated this this afternoon. The Government will always find in our political family a determined interlocutor, beyond the divisions, to improve the working conditions of these women and men who sacrifice both for the uniform they wear with pride and honour. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Also, my questions relate to the working conditions of the police officers. Secretary of State, when and how will you pay for the overtime of our security forces – you were very evasive just now? When will you improve the barracks of our gendarmes, sometimes pitiful, like for example in Burnhaupt-le-Haut? When will you simplify the family life of our gendarmes, by changing the rules of barracks, sometimes very restrictive for families?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u242	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u243	Mr President, I thank you for the tribute you paid to the police, who are indeed doing a remarkable job. Since the beginning of the movement, we have recorded 1226 wounded – 400 gendarmes and 826 policemen. As you know, everything is being done in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior to improve the working conditions, equipment and living conditions of police and gendarmerie personnel. A large real estate budget and capital budget have been allocated. This effort will continue. With regard to overtime, my answer is not evasive. I have told you that we will commit ourselves to this process of paying them. The cost is significant, and this payment is therefore part of a discussion that we will have with all the trade union organisations. But the goal is that, even if I cannot assure you that we will achieve it in one year, two years or four years. We are determined to honour what, to use the term used by Christophe Castaner, is a debt. In the December discussion with the trade union organizations, I said, an indemnification was planned for all the staff of the so-called supervisory and enforcement corps in the national police. For gendarmerie officers, adjustments have been planned, which we have conditioned to a more comprehensive discussion on future structural reforms in the national police and gendarmerie. Discussions will therefore continue. Be assured that the commitments we have made on overtime will not be in vain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u244	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u245	Allow me first of all to pay tribute to the composure, professionalism and courage of our security forces and to have a thought for the wounded, whatever they may be. It's an eternal repetition, Saturday after Saturday, demonstration after demonstration, expressing the ras-le-bol of your policy – despite the opposition's proposals, adopted too late when they are not planed, despite the 10 billion spent before Christmas, in haste, and despite your announcements, including that on the payment of overtime, which is still not followed by effect. Security is the first mission of the State. It must be your priority: you are an accountant with the French. However, it seems that police officers are constantly in reaction, not in anticipation and strategy, while France's techniques and know-how in policing were shown as an example some time ago. The fault lies with the successive tenants of the ministry, Place Beauvau, not with the fieldmen. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] This change in the urgency of the doctrine of the use of force towards greater mobility is proof of this. In this context, the methods you want to implement and your long-term vision of policing are fundamental not only for our police officers and gendarmes, but also for demonstrators and, more generally, for the French. Can you tell us more about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u246	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u247	In this case, I don't think we're just in reaction. Over the past two years, we have seen violent individuals infiltrating the processions, taking part in the forces of law and order, looting the shops, in an extremely violent manner. This led us, Christophe Castaner and I, to adapt a rather fixed doctrine, which consisted of keeping a distance from the demonstrators. So we are not just in reaction, as we have anticipated these developments well. All our order services are built in this way. We assume that the demonstration will take place peacefully, but, through mobility, we are in a position to immediately stop any abuses. This strategy was thought out, considered and discussed with the trade unions of the national police and the representatives of the national gendarmerie, whom Christophe Castaner and I listened to. They wanted this mobility, this reactivity, to be much more effective. These are the methods we will pursue, taking the time to formalize them. We placed this order with the prefect of police, the director general of the national gendarmerie and the director general of the national police, in order to freeze things, to adapt ourselves and, precisely, to be in anticipation. I think we're in anticipation. As far as public order is concerned, things have changed, which means that we need to adapt. Of course, we will not just talk about operational doctrine: as I said to one of your colleagues right now, our action will also focus on means of protection and intervention. The discussion will cover all of these topics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u248	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u249	I would like to draw attention to the financial weight of law enforcement intervention in recent weeks' mobilisations. These demonstrations were the scene of numerous violence, both against people, in particular our policemen and gendarmes, and against property. To deal with these spillovers, law enforcement forces have been heavily mobilized. In response to the violence, they had to increase the use of their equipment. For example, it was reported that more than 10,000 grenades had been launched during the December 1, 2018 demonstration. On several occasions, armoured vehicles were used. The use of these equipment represents a significant cost. As a result, law enforcement officials have been greatly sought out. At each gathering, extremely important arrangements were put in place. The number of several tens of thousands of policemen and gendarmes mobilized during the demonstrations is advanced, in a context of great violence, which has led hundreds of them to be injured. Raphaël Schellenberger and Sébastien Leclerc mentioned this, in 2017, there were already 21.82 million unrecovered and unpaid overtime for the national police alone. This situation could only worsen, given the pace of mobilization, especially at the beginning of the movement, when the blockages during the week followed the violent demonstrations of the weekend. So, what is the extra cost of the events of recent weeks on the "Security" budget mission? Mr Secretary of State, can you assure us today that this additional cost will not affect the other tasks of this programme? What is your plan, I hope, to pay this moral debt for overtime?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u250	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u251	Madam Member, I confirm to you that many defences have been used. The figures you quoted are correct. All this obviously has a cost. I would also like to reassure you that there are budgetary reserves to deal with them. Without drinking any figures, you should know that our precautionary reserves are EUR 49 million for the national police and EUR 31 million for the national gendarmerie. They enable us to cope with these additional needs caused by the maintenance of law and order and the very large demand for resources. As for overtime, they will be part of the overall discussion we will have with the trade union organisations. Believe that the will to pay this debt, and also to manage the flow, is there. This also relates to the management of working time, and perhaps to a better organization of the police and gendarmerie services, thought with the supervisors. We will focus on these issues as part of the discussions that begin in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u252	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u253	Like my colleagues, I would like first of all to pay tribute to our forces of law and order, which ensure our security unabated and under particularly difficult conditions. I would like to use this debate to ask the Government about the techniques used by law enforcement agencies in our country, particularly by drawing on examples of de-escalation seen in our European neighbours. This issue has already been addressed by Yannick Favennec, but perhaps you will want to complete your remarks, Secretary of State. My second, more technical question, will be the use of the defensive bullet launcher and, more particularly, the pedestrian cameras, which, as I understand it, is in the experimental phase. The device is divided into two stages: first, the camera must be activated and then the weapon must be used or not. Knowing that, for the Taser, a sensor can trigger the camera, why hasn't the same mechanism been adapted to the LBD?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u254	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u255	With regard to de-escalation, we are open to comments on what is being done elsewhere. In a well-managed demonstration, I repeat, a pre-existing framework keeps order. It will be reinforced, I hope, by administrative police measures. But let us not confuse the maintenance of public order and the management of urban riots or guerrillas like those we face. As far as the use of LBDs is concerned, it is part of a very strict regulatory framework. It is thus allowed in self-defence, to disperse a crowd after warning, to put an end to abuses or attacks against law enforcement, and whenever it avoids the use of administrative weapons. Neither the regulations nor the employment doctrine provide for the use of cameras with LBDs. With the primary aim of protecting the police who use it, Christophe Castaner requested that they themselves be equipped with a telegraph camera or that their pairs be equipped with it. The purpose of this camera is to be activated when the situation tends and police officers are likely to make use of the LBD, in order to transcribe the context in which the shooting was carried out. This request did not give rise to the enactment of a particular rule or instruction. But the question remains about possible LBD equipment with cameras, as is the case with the Taser, but with some operational difficulties. In any case, since the decision was made, there is no LBD fire without the telegraph being triggered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u256	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u257	I also wanted to pay tribute to our law enforcement personnel, who are doing admirable work under extremely difficult conditions. This session gives me the opportunity to ask you, Secretary of State, about the working conditions of the police and gendarmerie. Last June, a Senate report already highlighted the extreme psychological distress of our law enforcement agencies, and in particular our national police. Already, he pointed to the gruelling rhythms of work to which our police officers were subjected: most returned to spend a weekend with their family only once in four or even in five! Already in high demand for several years because of the terrorist threat, the security forces have been requisitioned for several months to deal with the demonstrations of the yellow vests. In the current context, such a workload presents a danger. Despite their unquestionable professionalism, the possibility of an accident during an event is a significant risk. But it is not only the safety of the demonstrators that is at stake: the health of these agents is also at stake. It is not difficult to imagine the impact that pressure and violence, whether physical or mental, can have on Saturdays. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us what steps have been taken to ensure adequate recovery times for police officers who have been involved for several months? What measures are planned to support them if they feel the need?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u258	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u259	I confirm once again that the police and the gendarmes are very much in demand. Whenever possible, we make every effort to provide recovery times within the week for mobile forces and gendarmerie or national police personnel. With regard to the monitoring of police morale, several mechanisms are provided for the prevention of psychosocial risks. In particular in these periods of tension and fatigue, which are conducive to blows, the effects of which can be disastrous, the hierarchy is regularly reminded of the attention which must be given to the staff in order to be able to intervene as quickly as possible in case of concern – I am thinking in particular of the prevention of suicides – and the rules to be followed in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u260	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u261	I fully endorse the words intended to express the support that we owe to those who ensure our daily security in this particular moment of crisis. At this early hour, Secretary of State, we can speak freely. The overall feeling, when the story is rewritten, in a few years, will remain that this power was misled because of a misinterpretation of what was happening and a total improvisation in the first few weeks. You have responded to the various speakers that the Government is taking a proactive approach. But when Mr Castaner was heard by the Law Committee, after Act 1 or Act 2, in response to my question on anticipation and information, he indicated – just refer to the record – that this was not possible. Perhaps his apprehension of the police's ability to anticipate these events and apprehend the troublemakers was wrong at that time? We then observed developments in the mobility of law enforcement agencies, but also in the arrest of troublemakers. At one point, we must stop and work on the doctrine of law and order and the corresponding means. You have announced that you have entrusted three senior officials – the directors of the national police and gendarmerie as well as the police prefect – with a mission on this subject. I hope that at the end of this work you will accept a time of truth with the national representation – because, even if Mr Macron is President of the Republic, there is still a Constitution and institutions – to discuss the conditions for intervention by the law enforcement forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u262	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u263	As far as anticipation is concerned, you cite Act 1 and Act 2. This has nothing to do with the events of 1 December. Act 1 shall take place on 17 November, Act 2 on 24. Nothing happens in Paris on 17 November: a few thousand people walk around, some find themselves on the side of the Elysée where they are blocked; there is no violence that we will experience on December 1st; actions are carried out in the provinces, mainly dams. On November 24, things are a little different: a few barricades are installed on the Champs-Élysées. On December 1st, it's a new episode that occurs, of unprecedented violence, especially in Paris, around the Arc de Triomphe – the policemen all tell us that they have never seen this. It would therefore be a bad trial for Christophe Castaner and myself to accuse us of a lack of anticipation: no one had seen him coming, no one had planned him. On the other hand, following this episode, we immediately anticipated: in seventy-two hours, we completely revised the doctrine to be ready to face on 8 December, and this was crowned with success.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u264	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u265	That's why anticipation was right. Recognize that Acts 1 and 2 had nothing to do with what we knew on December 1. With regard to the doctrine of the maintenance of public order, we have entrusted its revision to the three officials of the law enforcement agencies. They will formalise what we want and eventually make proposals to us, and we will discuss them with the trade union organisations. But the doctrine of the maintenance of public order is an internal matter within the Ministry of the Interior, on which we commit our responsibility. We will first work on it before deciding whether we make it public – but I believe that we have already widely revealed the broad outlines of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u266	Mr David Habib has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u267	Mr Secretary of State, you are well aware that there was no personal question in my remarks. The problem is not linked to the police, it is first of all political, it must be said: the best way to stop the demonstrations is to provide a political response, whatever it may be. It is therefore not in Beauvau but rather on the other side of the street that the problem arises. I want to address a subject that concerns my department, which is dear to you. At the end of August a major event, the G7 summit, will be held in Biarritz. The Government has made arrangements, which we are familiar with every day in the press. I learned today that Pau airport would be used as a relay airport: I don't know what that means... And the gendarmes and the firemen of Orthez informed me that they had to find 150 houses to accommodate firefighters and gendarmes from all over France! Can you assure us that all means are mobilized? I'm sure of it, but I'd rather you say it. Secondly, I know that the Republic on the move loves Members of Parliament out of the ground, but I am not. I am a member of Parliament for the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, Member of Parliament for Béarn, and I would like to know when you intend to inform us of what is going to happen in our department when the journalists will land hundreds, the heads of state by tens and the inhabitants could take advantage of the circumstances to protest in thousands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u268	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u269	I assure you, we are working well on this event. A senior official directly attached to the Minister is dedicated to this mission. We are working with the local prefectural authorities. The new prefect, who will take up his duties quickly, will be fully involved in this matter. As is the practice for gatherings of this nature, yes, a time for information and exchange on measures taken will be provided with the elected representatives. I'll make sure, but I have no doubt about that. Having organized many such events in my previous professional life, I can assure you that local elected officials are always informed and associated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u270	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u271	Undoubtedly, in this House we all measure the importance of the social movement of yellow vests. We in the IUD Group, acting and independent, understand their legitimate demands. We had even anticipated them, since on 5 November last I had alerted the Government during the discussion of the finance bill, expressing my full concern. Unfortunately, I have been little heard. This Saturday, February 2nd, we knew Act 12. If I do not question the movement in substance at all, I do not endorse it in any way on form. I would like to commend the forces of law and order, who remain mobilized despite their exhaustion and while their morale is undermined by a violent hostage-taking of public space, by a surge of hatred against them, but also by completely questionable media attacks. In 2018, there were 36 suicides in the police ranks: a suicide rate of 36%, above the national average. Today, 5 February, ten suicides have already been recorded. These figures are worrying. It seems to me difficult not to link up with what our police are going through every Saturday. It was in this capacity that the IDU, Action and Independent Group took the initiative of a commission of inquiry into the situation, the missions and the means of the security forces. Our police forces are primarily composed of citizens. And we owe it to ourselves, since they are the guardians of our security for all of us, to take care of it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] There is in my department, in Indre-et-Loire, a centre, the Courbat, the only health facility in France specializing in the care of police officers whom I invite you to visit. What can you say about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u272	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u273	I would also like to thank you, Madam Member, for the words you have had for the police officers and the gendarmerie soldiers, who are in fact under very severe strain at the moment and face with great courage and determination an unrivalled level of violence. They always receive very positively the marks of recognition given to them. I presented myself this morning, at Puy-en-Velay, alongside the prefect of the department and in the presence of many local elected officials, with medals of honour for act of courage and dedication, in order to reward the heroic actions carried out to defend the prefecture, which, as you know, was attacked and invaded on 1 December and which were tried to burn. I can assure you that all the signs of recognition and evidence of support addressed to the law enforcement authorities go right to their heart. The recognition of the nation is important in those times when they are sometimes – sometimes only – so contested. You have referred to the preventive measures and the attention to be paid to police officers and gendarmes, and would like to see the establishment of a commission of inquiry to deal with this subject in particular. Be assured that this is a major concern of the Minister of the Interior and myself. I obviously know the center in Indre-et-Loire that you mentioned. I recently met people who had been with him. Christophe Castaner and I will be careful to maintain the policy of prevention, which requires above all a strong awareness of the whole hierarchy of the police and gendarmerie as to the attention to be paid to the staff, in order to detect signals as upstream as possible that could translate or reveal an unease.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u274	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u275	Since the end of November, following the serious incidents in some cities of France, notably Paris, the Ministry of the Interior has carried out massive reminders of staff during the weekends in order to ensure security and restore order during the demonstrations. These massive reminders were misorganized and, sometimes, made at the last minute. Above all, they highlighted a serious structural problem faced by thousands of police officers in France: the immediate non-payment of overtime. Police officers find themselves with thousands of extra hours on their counter. They cannot pose them, because of the need for service – they are often understaffed – or get paid, because their time-saving account is capped at a very low level. Of course, police work is often a vocation, but it would be good not to consider that they work only for the glory or taste of order and justice. Behind the staggering number of accumulated overtime is the lives of disturbed mothers and fathers, cancelled personal projects, and sacrifices that deserve a different than symbolic recognition. The Government has undertaken to open up the possibility for police officers to be paid for all or part of the unpaid overtime to date. Can you confirm this commitment? Also, do you know the amount that this represents? How long will they be paid? Finally, what is planned for the gendarmes, who are of a different status but are involved under equally difficult conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u276	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u277	I have already spoken about the important mobilization of police and gendarmerie personnel. We have indeed made a commitment to discuss with trade union organisations the timing and modalities of overtime compensation. I have failed to specify, in response to some of your colleagues, that overtime was already paid for certain categories of civil servants, including Republican security agents. We will therefore launch this discussion on the payment of these hours, for an amount of around 250 million euros, to answer your question precisely. It will probably be important in the future to better regulate the flow of overtime. This will be part of the discussions we will have with the trade union organisations. In the recent period, we have sometimes mobilised personnel at the last moment, I certainly admit, but this is a very exceptional period of tension, and we have done so to maintain republican order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u278	What about the gendarmes?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u279	They are under military status. It is therefore not the same rules that apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u280	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u281	Saturday after Saturday, the French shout their despair in the streets. Deaf of the legitimate demands of yellow vests, the Government responds by a law of circumstance, restrictive of freedoms, ineffective and possibly even unconstitutional. There were nearly 1900 injured among demonstrators and 1200 among law enforcement personnel. Of course, the National Rally strongly condemns the violence against the yellow vests as well as the police. We do not forget the other victims, especially the traders who saw their work tool destroyed in the middle of Christmas purchases and sales. The use of so-called intermediate weapons, defensive bullet launchers and de-encirclement grenades, has led to many mutilations in peaceful demonstrators who had not come to fight. The law enforcement agencies and their representatives must be given the capacity to analyse and assess whether the material resources available to them are still relevant and whether the current law enforcement doctrine is also relevant. Still, there should be a permanent dialogue between the Ministry of the Interior and trade union representatives. This is not the case, according to trade unions, because there is actually no clear vision of maintaining law and order in our country – but perhaps it is intended. The Act of Circumstances which the National Assembly had just adopted was unnecessarily in addition to legislative measures that would effectively combat breakers if they were applied. This law, which will not protect our fellow citizens or the forces of law and order, will, however, restrict the right to demonstrate. Article 2 now allows the prefect to judge the danger of a citizen and then to withdraw from him fundamental individual rights. As I have already said, there are many legal provisions on the fight against breakers, and they must be applied. The Government has the opportunity to stop the demonstrations overnight by finding a political way out of the conflict. The situation has been going on for three months, and you are unable to keep this political exit, preferring to let our compatriots face each other. We are far from macroist "benevolence"! Also, we ask you what strategy respecting public freedoms you intend to apply to get the country out of the chaos in which you have plunged it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u282	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u283	The violence is mainly due to assaults by police officers and abuses, I cannot go back to that. It is not a question of attacking peaceful activists. It is necessary to stop calling "peaceful demonstrators" the breakers who attack the police, want to loot the shops and bring down our institutions. The police officers, the gendarmerie soldiers and the firemen that I met this morning at Puy-en-Velay did not have in front of them "peaceful activists" on December 1st!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u284	I didn't say that at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u285	We have to get out of complacency. Get out of complacency with a certain movement! Legitimate demands are expressed and must be heard, but to violence we will only respond by force and by maintaining law and order. There's no other way. The will of this government is not, as you seem to say, to plunge the country into chaos, but to maintain public order. I cannot accept that people who violently attack law enforcement forces are called "peaceful demonstrators".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u286	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u287	It is these individuals who are the subject of a proportionate response, with the intermediate weapons used by the law enforcement agencies. These are only these individuals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u288	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u289	...that are breakers and ultraviolent. I do not go back to the doctrine, which I have referred to very widely. You call for a permanent dialogue with the trade unions. If you are talking about police union organisations, this dialogue is indeed permanent. If you talk about other unions that organize demonstrations, we also interact constantly with them. But it must be noted that the movement of the yellow vests does not declare any manifestation. It is therefore very difficult to establish a dialogue that would enable us to ensure that demonstrations take place under peaceful conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u290	The question session on police action during the mobilizations of the yellow vests is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-05-O1138.u291	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Presentation of the annual report of the Court of Auditors; Debate on school in the digital society. The meeting is adjourned.
