ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on energy and climate (No. 1908, 2032, 2063, 2031).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u3	While the Hexagon is going through a particularly harsh canicule episode, we are gathered in the appreciative freshness of this House to debate the draft law on energy and climate, exactly fifteen years after the signing of the first strategic plan to reduce greenhouse gases. This small law, as some have described it, while the first version presented by the Government included only eight articles written in a rush, has turned into a solid text in the course of the debates in committee, with its forty-six articles. While I regret that the Committee on Sustainable Development has not been seized of the substance, I would like to congratulate the colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs who have saved this text from anonymity and increased its energy transition ambitions. I am not blaming my pleasure at seeing the parliamentary work put in the spotlight, as it is true that the new world has used us to a different treatment. After the cold shower that followed the Paris Agreement, during which the policy of the majority on ecological transition was limited to hammering slogans while making setbacks after setbacks, we hoped to be seized of a text to the extent of the founding act of the law on the energy transition for green growth, voted in 2015. Of course, we can always do better, and some of the associations, including the Climate Action Network, continue to show disappointment. But I welcome with great enthusiasm the declaration of climate and ecological emergency, on the one hand, and the stated objectives in terms of carbon neutrality, on the other. In addition to showing a healthy, though late, awareness, these measures offer a perfect opportunity to make overseas territories, often in advance of the metropolis in terms of energy transition, real laboratories of excellence in this field. In this spirit, Guyana, thanks in particular to its 8 million hectares of primary Amazon forest, is a formidable carbon sink and must be recognized for its fundamental role in this field. Still, we should take stock of the challenges and urgency of preserving this space while providing local people with endogenous and sustainable development solutions. Mr. Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, you know how much you are expected on this subject. While studies have shown that the tropical forest in the Amazonian basin absorbs about 25% of the carbon sequestered on Earth annually, this area suffers cruelly from global warming and anthropogenic pressure. Global warming causes premature ageing of trees, while human activities, especially illegal agriculture and mining – I stress these two qualifiers – are responsible for the annual loss of an Amazonian forest area equivalent to Belgium. The situation is critical, since net storage has already decreased by half. In addition, since 2014, fossil emissions in South America have been higher than the latter. In this regard, the recent statements by Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and his Minister of Agriculture do not reassure us. In the French Amazon, that is, in French Guiana, illegal gold mining continues to ravage the forest while jeopardizing local populations – 15,000 garimpeiros deforest, pollute and poison the natural environment despite military operations that have largely demonstrated their limitations and shortcomings. In the face of what some people call state inaction, I will shortly table a motion for a resolution calling for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the fight against illegal orpainting in Guyana and the poisoning of mercury or methylmercury in the Amerindian and Bushinengued populations. The subject is too important, the population concerned too fragile, the urgency too obvious and the responsibility of the State too flagrant for us to stand up to this catastrophe. To return to the heart of the text, I would like to welcome the adoption of the amendment tabled by Delphine Batho on subsidies for carbon fuels. This is a demand of the GDR Group, supported during our last parliamentary niche. I congratulate the colleagues who have decided to accept this proposal, against the Government's opinion, and I hope that the Government will not, as usual, have the temptation to undo what has been validated in committee. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Mr Minister, this text has good intentions, but it still suffers from real weaknesses, particularly with regard to the overseas countries and territories. That is why we will remain on our guard pending the decline of convergence and transformation plans which cannot ignore a real path of sustainable development for the benefit of our territories. These plans will be the responsibility of your colleague, Minister for Overseas Affairs. We hope that the inter-ministerial work will make it possible to put coherence at the service of the various projects we carry. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u4	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u5	Admit that starting the study of a text on the climate in the heatwave, there is no shortage of salt. I also have a thought for all the candidates for the college patent who will have to delay their departure on vacation or on a school or linguistic trip of a few days, and an even greater thought for those who will have the pleasure of taking the test in September. Damn heat! Ironically, our work coincides with the publication of the first, very instructive report of the High Council for the Climate, which takes a serious account of France's policy. While recognizing its ambitious objectives, it points to insufficient action and too weak arrangements. Thus, we come together to examine a text whose most emblematic measure, according to the press, would be the inclusion of the environmental and climate emergency in clause 1 of the bill. The United Kingdom and Ireland had done so before us, and we urgently needed to follow suit: that is what we have done. We're reassured! It's a joke. In June 2017, Emmanuel Macron said: "Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. [...] No matter where we live, we share the same responsibility: to give our planet its greatness." A speech that had to seduce Nicolas Hulot, then Minister of the Environment, who, with lucidity, resigned a year later with these words: "I hope that Mr. Macron will learn the lessons of my resignation. I hope that this gesture will be useful for everyone to ask themselves the question of their responsibility. Since then, the European elections have gone through this and, with them, the 13.47% of votes obtained by the ecological list – a very coveted vote that must be satisfied. So what are the concrete measures proposed in this text? First of all, and that's a good thing, you plan to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 – it means not to emit more greenhouse gases than the country can absorb through, for example, its forests or soils. To achieve this, we will have to divide our greenhouse gas emissions by six instead of four previously compared to 1990. Another positive step is to accelerate the reduction of fossil energy consumption – the 2030 reduction target is increased from 30% to 40%. In particular, you undertake to stop producing electricity from coal by 2022 with, at the key, the closure of the plants of the same name. It remains to be seen what the specific accompanying measures will be for the employees of these installations and their subcontractors who will obviously be affected by the closures. Unfortunately, the rest of the text is not as happy. For example, in his policy speech, the Prime Minister mentioned the possibility of increasing the volume of future offshore wind calls to 1 gigawatt per year, which represents about 150 new wind turbines per year. However, it should be pointed out that wind turbines are far from unanimous, for reasons of landscape pollution, health protection or the protection of certain animal species. I would add that the light has still not been shed on the alarming and unexplained side effects of the Nozay wind farm between Nantes and Rennes. I am also thinking of your willingness to get out of nuclear power at all costs. The International Energy Agency's report, published on 28 May, entitled "Nuclear energy in a clean energy system", states that nuclear energy is a non-CO emitter and a mode of production of clean energy. All of his findings argue against arbitrary and premature closure, whether in 2025 or 2035, of plants still in operation. Why not take this into account? In the category of disappointing measures, Article 5 aims to combat false energy saving certificates in order to solve the problem of thermal sieves, but there is no word on possible financial mechanisms to encourage the reduction of our energy consumption. As for your experiment with sequestration of part of the amount of the sale of poorly isolated houses to finance the renovation work, it is the double penalty for the sellers, since, in most cases, the sale price already takes into account the poor state of insulation of the habitat. You could have also talked about short circuits, local buying depending on the seasons, but not a word about it either. On the other hand, you do not omit the use of prescriptions when it suits you. In short, a text not very convincing to save our ecosystem, or how to give the impression of changing everything so as not to change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u6	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u7	We are here to discuss the energy and climate bill. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the role of my fellow Members, rapporteurs and group leaders, who have been able to conduct high-quality hearings and genuine collegial work during the debates in committee. In keeping with the 2017 climate plan, the multi-annual energy programming and the mobility guidance law, this text recalls, as we face the effects of climate change this week, our ambitions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to combat climate change. We are aware of the urgency to act and it is more than necessary today to make concrete and pragmatic political choices, which will enable us, in the near future, to achieve our objectives. It is from this perspective that I welcome in particular in this text: the inclusion of the carbon-neutral targets in the 2050 horizon; the establishment of the High Climate Council to ensure compliance with these objectives and to make recommendations; diversification of the energy mix. I know that other subjects will also be at the heart of our discussions, such as the question of thermal colanders or the support of employees when coal-fired power stations are closed. I would now like to focus on the role that agriculture can play in contributing to our objectives. Indeed, I am aware that we must shoulder our responsibilities in this sector in view of our goal of reducing greenhouse gases and the challenges of carbon neutrality. Not to take this sector into account is to forget that it will be the first victim of climate change. Dryness, flooding, weather, these periods of natural disasters could become daily, forcing us to compensate farmers and to accompany them in the face of these challenges. It would be a cost to society and the sector would suffer even more. Yet I see a chance to find real solutions today for agriculture to be at the initiative of these changes. The development of methanization is an opportunity. Nevertheless, I believe that we need to know how to anticipate all the effects of this development, for example ensuring that we do not deplete our soil and preserve its food character. Indeed, these are likely to become inefficient. The removal of carbon from the soil for the methanizer via organic matter will deplete it. In the long term, they will no longer be able to produce, and we could find ourselves in a much more perilous situation than we currently have. The problem of nitrogen absorption of digestates also arises. Today's soil, depleted by bacteria, no longer captures this nitrogen, which becomes a volatile part. NOx – oxides of nitrogen – are found in the atmosphere and increase global warming. Finally, it is necessary to reflect in the long term and in a comprehensive way on the development of resilient systems such as agroforestry, which not only bring biodiversity, but have many other virtues: they would protect our soils from heat waves by forming a microclimate around production, would respond to the lack of water, since it would be necessary to limit the evaporation of soils, regenerate them by the addition of direct organic matter and store carbon on a very large scale, which is perfectly in line with the objectives of the bill. Soil vegetation is not limited to rural areas. Our cities would also deserve such development, since, according to ADEME – the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – planting a tree in the city would replace five air conditioners. The drop in temperature caused by these plantations could reach up to ten degrees! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we face serious challenges. This is not an alarmist discourse, but a discourse of truth, of the ground, providing pragmatic solutions. It is up to us, parliamentarians, to drive them, to push them for our fellow citizens and for our planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u8	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u9	I would like to answer a few questions and bounce back on some points. I would like to thank Mrs Huguette Tiegna and the speakers of the La République on the move, who have supported this text. This is an opportunity to recall, as you said, Madam Member, that our approach is both ambitious and realistic. It's about efficiency. We demand a balanced position between realism, given the situation we found in 2017, and efficiency, and therefore the willingness to achieve measured results. That is why we wanted the establishment of a High Climate Council. Mr. Martial Saddier asked to what extent we could have further linked the issue of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to that of air pollution. This is not the direct purpose of the text, but our action is well in this direction, in particular through the establishment of low-emission zones in cities in areas where pollution is now high. Fifteen territories have already signed a contract with us. As a result of the Mobility Policy Act, this approach will gradually become mandatory for the entire territory, beyond cities, which will reduce both greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. These first days of heatwaves showed how closely the two factors were linked, and how much the two phenomena could worsen each other. Mr Saddier and others also referred to hydropower. The purpose of the bill is not to deal directly with this sector or its organization. It is for this reason – and I am also speaking to Mrs Battistel, who has been working on this subject for a long time and who has talked about it – that a number of amendments dealing with it have been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u11	We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. In his policy statement, the Prime Minister gave direction, which will be clarified in the coming months. The subject is passionate, especially outside the Chamber, because some are agitating unfounded threats to inflame fears. Unfortunately, in the public debate, it is often more effective than setting out facts – I am not referring here to the statements of Mr Saddier or yours, Mrs Battistel, who have only raised the issue. If we stick to the facts, we have two possibilities under French and European law, the first being in conformity with the second. Renewing our membership of the European Union, we subscribe to European law, including when it has been enacted at other times and validated by governments that are not of our political colour. Either we renew the concessions as they mature – some have already arrived, while others are still very far from them – and, in this context, renewal must be competitive, since, even before European law, French concession law applies. France is also at the origin of the concession law, which makes it possible to finance the investments, which are then amortised during the duration of the concession in order to produce electricity at best. Or, in a competitive context, we do not want to renew the concession of the dams that have come to term and we are entrusting the property to a structure of 100 % public. Nor do I comment on the type of structure – public institution, public limited liability company, etc. – as the European Union does. This is a path that we are studying very seriously, unlike previous governments, which generally wanted to perpetuate EDF's concessions without changing its status or organisation, but without proposing competitive renewal, which has led to a blockage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u12	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u13	Some concessions have therefore not been renewed for years, which limits the efficiency of hydropower – I think we agree on this point – while more electricity could be produced by modernising existing dams, without building new ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u14	I was going to offer it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u15	At the request of the Government, EDF has put forward proposals for reorganization within the framework, I would remind you, of an integrated group. It is not, as I have heard, a matter of cutting EDF into pieces. One of the options – the press has echoed this and I would point out that nothing has yet been decided – would be to establish a 100% public company and subsidiaries whose share of the capital could be private. I recall that today EDF as a whole, along with dams, nuclear power plants and other modes of production and activity, is partly listed on the stock exchange. The state owns almost 84% of the capital, but the remaining 16% is quoted. The transaction is therefore not feasible immediately, since the shares should be redeemed. Another question arises: the definition of the 100% public perimeter. Would it include nuclear power, hydropower and other activities, or only nuclear power, or only hydropower? These decisions require extensive work. In addition, negotiations are under way with the European Commission on the possible links between hydroelectric activities and activities of another nature within an integrated group. You see the way is narrow. The subject requires precision. I understand that we are simplifying to the extreme when we organise demonstrations and launch petitions in order to gather, but we are part of the legislative framework, which requires a concrete approach. This is not the purpose of this text, but at some point it will have to be written. The operation is not simple. EDF questions the choices that would best serve its interests. Should certain concessions be open to competition, knowing that EDF could subscribe?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u16	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u17	It's for debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u18	Or is it better to create a 100% public structure, separate from other activities but which would remain within the EDF group, which would put an end to renewals? I made a commitment in committee to clarify our positions. I therefore wanted to explain these elements to Mr Saddier and Mrs Battistel. I thank Mr Duvergé and other Members of the MODEM Group for their support. He would like us to study where the real energy independence lies, which would be to free us from dependence on imported oil, gas and coal – France still imports 13.5 million tonnes of coal per year and much more oil and gas. I fully agree with that request. As Mr Wulfranc has said, not only do these imports unbalance our trade balance, but they are very damaging to the climate. We share the desire to involve Parliament more closely in these matters. During the discussion, amendments will make it possible to make progress and clarify things. I come to Mr François-Michel Lambert's speech for the Libertés et territoires group. I can only agree with what he said about the importance of energy renewal. Mr Lambert has raised the well-known problem of the functioning of existing nuclear power plants, which justifies the programmed and ordered actions, as we wish. I share his view on coal-fired power plants and support for offshore wind. However, I will clarify a matter that concerns his constituency: on the Gardanne power station, which includes a wood slice, legal remedies have been filed. In case of rejection, it is obvious that the State will respect its word, regardless of the relevance of the project. Our policy no longer tends to generate electricity using wood resources, which we prefer to dedicate to renewable heat generation. However, if the appeals are rejected, the contract signed during the previous mandate will be respected. As for Mrs Panot's speech, I find it difficult to find some proposals. I heard that CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – was the end of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u19	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u20	I leave it to each judge: it is a trade agreement with a country, Canada, which has the same social standards as ours – even higher in some areas. The standard of living is comparable to ours and there are strong environmental concerns. For having discussed with my counterpart Catherine McKenna, I was struck by the fact that we have exactly the same debates on both sides of the Atlantic, particularly on carbon taxation, even if we do not envisage the same operating procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u21	I was talking about free trade!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u22	I have also seen differences, which have been framed in the negotiations. In short, with this treaty, we are very far from the end of the world, and that is so much better. Besides, I don't think this one's that close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u23	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u24	Ms. Panot, if we can't trade with Canada, I don't know what other country in the world we can do that with. But this is a substantive debate. It will take place at the time of ratification, which will take place shortly. Another point surprises me more – even though it is a recurring contradiction in you. While denouncing some form of nuclear monopoly in France, you regret the time of the monopoly. I find it hard to understand how you reconcile these two positions. On this subject, you have an ideological position. That's your right. I don't think ideology is a big word. You apply to energy the reasoning that when a sector is 100% public, it's better. You agreed to a small opening on co-operatives. Be careful! These are private structures, holding capital, in which some people can even get profits! But no doubt you are aware that, in order to develop renewable energies in France, it is good that there is a diversity of actors. For our part, we take on the diversification of both production modes and actors. I am very pleased that there are companies, both large and small, involved in the energy transition. Again – and this is a difference between us – I do not oppose ecology and enterprise: on the contrary! You insinuated, what I don't want to say, that the coal-fired power plants were going to be extended. I have a concrete proposal to make, however, if you agree to make a trip with me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u25	It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u26	There is no coal-fired power plant in your constituency, but mine includes one. If you want, we will go together to the thermal power plant of Cordemais – or Gardanne, Le Havre or Saint-Avold. You will hear the employees who blame me for refusing to extend the moratorium beyond 2022. We'll go together. So, you'll hear their speeches...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u27	There's no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u28	... and it will not be uninteresting that the trade unionists of these power stations also hear you, because it is preferable to hold the same speech in the Chamber of the National Assembly and in the territories. Otherwise, it's a little easy. I call it TGV syndrome: positions change in TGV. I don't change my position between Paris and Nantes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u29	Oh, yes! Three years ago, you were for 100% renewable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] No, between Nantes and Paris, my position remains the same, and so it has been for twelve years. Again, I admit my surprise: I understood that you were against European solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u31	No, we're for relocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For our part, we are defending a good European policy. A great European success, unknown to the French and Europeans, is public investment in interconnections. This should please you, and this sharing of our means of production is an excellent thing. This makes it possible to be much more efficient for the climate because, of course, the wind sometimes blows stronger in the north of Germany than in France, Spain, Italy or Great Britain and, tomorrow, in Ireland. This project will represent a public investment of more than 500 million euros. Since Ireland does not want to be dependent on certain countries which will no longer be part of the European Union tomorrow, we have drawn up this beautiful project supported by the European Union, through public investment, among other things. I'm very happy about that. Mrs Battistel, I think I have responded to your inquiry into hydropower. Thank you for noting the many convergences between your proposals and ours in this bill. We rely on various measures of the 2015 law. I appreciate the opening of your position on the final vote and welcome this open and constructive attitude. The same applies to Mrs de La Raudière, who spoke on behalf of the IDU-I Group. I heard his various questions. I would like to make it clear, in order to dispel any misunderstanding, that the article on coal-fired power stations is intended only to avoid disputes. If we had not included this provision in the law, we would take the risk of a rather heavy dispute with at least one of the two operators: it is a private operator who is changing hands and who would not necessarily have agreed, out of pure political will, to shut down the coal-fired power stations of Saint-Avold and Gardanne. The question will again arise with the article on regulated access to historical nuclear electricity – ARENH. I understand that Mrs de La Raudière wanted the ARENH to be abolished outright: she must be a little alone in this House for the time being. We'll talk about it again when the subject comes into discussion. Mr Wulfranc, I would also like to welcome the way in which you have presented your position. This proves that we can express our differences calmly, without abandoning in any way the firmness of our convictions. It happens, however, that I share your views on oil. We always forget in the political debate in France that energy is not just electricity, and that the share of oil in overall energy consumption in France remains far too large. It must be our priority to bring it down, which is certainly not easy. We share the view that the main criterion is energy consumption. The two pillars of multi-annual energy programming are energy savings and the development of renewable energy; It's not one in place of the other, it's not one against the other, it's both. If we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time facing increases in electricity demand in certain areas in order to meet the electrification of uses, particularly in transport, consumption will have to be controlled. I should like to make it clear, because I know that Mr Aubert, for example, does not agree on this point. But that's a position we're claiming. On the hydro, I think I answered you. I would like to commend Mrs Meynier-Millefert's commitment to the energy renewal of buildings and her beautiful plea for both an environmental and social emergency, but also a real vehicle for economic development in our territory, and for a wide range of construction companies – but certainly private, Mrs Panot. It is always good for building companies to have the activity relays, especially on the renovation of all types of housing, whether they belong to private owners, their occupants or to social donors, whether they are tertiary or commercial buildings. I also wanted to welcome Mr Potier's constructive spirit. I share his concern and am firmly convinced of the extremely important issue of soil. Mrs Le Feur also referred to this issue, on which I shall return. Mr Potier, I will pass on to you the table of subsidies that you have asked for: you will excuse the smallness of certain characters – I hope you have as good glasses as mine. This will answer all the questions you asked in committee on this subject. I would like to thank Mr Serville for his support for the objective of carbon neutrality and for returning to a variety of substantive climate objectives. The need to protect the Amazon forest is an extremely serious challenge. The President of the Republic and I have received the Amazonian leader Raoni who has made us aware of the resumption of deforestation in Brazil. You have not at all avoided the subject of the urgent need to protect our part of the Amazon forest. I will visit Guyana in September and we will have the opportunity to work in practice to protect the Amazonian forest, particularly in relation to the illegal orpainting. This concern is common to us. Despite the diversity of the overseas territories – French Guiana, Polynesia, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, Martinique, Guadeloupe and all the others – we are committed to valuing the renewable energy potentials that are not being exploited today. Let us say that, even if you have not pointed out: fossil fuels are now far too, and too often, used to produce electricity in these territories. It is a transformation that it is up to us to engage; There is, as you know, multi-annual programming of the energy specific to each territory in order to adapt to their specificities. Mrs Ménard, you were talking about a severe assessment of the High Council for Climate. You have forgotten to recall what his president said: it is more difficult for France to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions than for neighbouring countries, because, since our electricity production is already very highly decarbonised, we must directly tackle everything that affects habits, behaviors, including individual ones. As you know, in terms of CO2 emissions, just behind the building and the accommodation, there is transport, private car, commercial vehicles, trucks. We therefore touch upon complicated subjects, which call upon the behaviour of each and every one. We have never claimed to have a miracle recipe, but of course we must start the transformations in this sector. If we don't, we won't get any results. Other countries can, in the short term, substitute means of producing carbon-free electricity to achieve remarkable results if not immediately, at least quickly. This was explained by the President of the High Council for Climate, and it was important to stress that. I didn't quite understand your position with regard to the wind. The Prime Minister's remarks concerned offshore wind turbines. I don't know if you're in favour or against it. Projects are planned in your region, as they exist on all the French maritime facades. This is a great opportunity, both to produce electricity and to develop the industrial sector. Finally, Mrs Le Feur, you are right to stress the role of agriculture, not only as a source of greenhouse gas emissions, but also as a solution, or at least as a contribution to their reduction. We'll talk about methanization again. I visited with Jean-Baptiste Moreau a methanization unit on the Millevaches plateau. Instead, I heard the farmer who exploits it congratulate himself on what it could then be used to amend the soil, to reprocess the manure, which is of better quality when the methanizer comes out. We will eventually come back to this on the efficiency of the methanisation chain. France, like Germany, does not make the choice to develop methanization with specific crops. The 2015 law set a maximum ceiling of 15% for the incorporation of dedicated crops. In France, waste, by-products of agriculture, or even household waste, are therefore entering the methanization process. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As for the role of land cover and farming practices, the role of forest and vegetation in cities, we fully share this objective as a positive contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u33	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u34	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u35	In the last European elections, the French demonstrated their commitment to ecology – the real one, not the punitive ecology promoted by certain politicians. There was therefore an urgent need to address their concerns, but to address them effectively. However, although it includes some measures that go in the right direction, such as experimentation for thermal colanders, the bill before us today is either about declarations of good intentions – such as achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 – or about a catalogue of sometimes very negative measures. As such, the case of nuclear power is particularly emblematic. It is absurd to want to reduce the share of nuclear energy when it is an energy that does not emit CO and thus meets the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. While nuclear poses the essential issue of waste treatment, we do not currently have another alternative source of energy. For our part, we refuse to cover France with wind turbines that will permanently defigure our environment and threaten our ecosystems. The French expect strong environmental measures, not gadgets such as the creation of a High Council for Climate, the umpteenth Theodule committee whose reports will fill the drawers of the ministries. True ecology means completely rethinking our system, starting with the fight against this unfair competition, which involves having products manufactured on the other side of the world that are then reimported in our countries, often in disregard of any acceptable social or environmental norms. I am thinking here of the massive use of super-cargos, which alone pollute more than the entire French fleet. True ecology relies on short circuits, on the development of clean energy sources, such as hydrogen. That is the challenge that we still have to face, and that your bill, unfortunately, will not be able to achieve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u36	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u37	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to join Article 1 to formally challenge the inadmissibility of Amendments Nos 798, 789, 790, 791 and 792 on hydropower, especially since other amendments on hydroelectricity have been considered admissible. It seems perfectly abnormal to me to consider debating a bill on energy and climate by excluding the major debate on national sovereignty over hydropower. Mr Minister, in committee last week, you told us that you would make announcements during this parliamentary debate on the decisions of the Government. We were all waiting to know how the Prime Minister's general policy speech stated that he would not accept the fragmentation of hydroelectric concessions. But I have listened to you carefully and things are not so clear. For my part, I do not want hydropower to be used in favour of a scheme to dismantle EDF which would be split into two entities. My question will therefore be simple: if not in this bill, when will the Government discuss with the national representative of the future of hydropower?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u38	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u39	First of all, I would like to recall the ambition set out in Article 1, namely to achieve, by 2050, the carbon neutrality which the rapporteur has proposed to us in a definition adopted by the committee. This goal, announced in the 2017 Climate Plan, we are very proud to include it in the law. Article 1 is ambitious, in that it aims to reduce fossil energy consumption by 40 per cent, not more than 30 per cent, and it is sincere because it tells the French the truth on the path of reducing the share of nuclear power in our electricity production by postponing the target we have set ourselves in this area from 2025 to 1935. This objective, achievable and realistic, is supported by scenarios of the Electricity Transmission Network – TEN – and is in line with our working method. [[The Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs applauds]] On the other hand, the work done in committee, sometimes in a trans-party manner, has allowed us to add to the text strong measures, be it the mention of the "ecological and climate emergency", approved by all the groups, the publication of the roadmap for energy renewal in the annex to each multi-annual energy programme, in order to clarify the modalities under which we need to invest more in energy renewal, or the addition of the fight against global warming among the missions specific to ADEME. These three additions are additional reasons to support Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u40	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u41	For our part, we will oppose Article 1, which seems to us to be largely inadequate in view of the urgency of the present situation. Mr Minister, I find you a little tense, as when in committee you were very critical of the NGOs. Yes, we believe that the energy market should never be open to competition. Suffer that we have a completely different vision from yours; It's not a big deal. On the other hand, I would remind you that in a note on carbon neutrality, Carbon 4 recalled that responsibility was, to three quarters, collective and structural and, to one quarter, individual. Let us think about it well: this means that a systemic change, a break with current patterns of production and consumption is necessary. Finally, when I address the issue of free trade, it does not matter to me whether the agreement is signed with Canada, Japan or Vietnam. Moreover, if these were values, perhaps the European Union could, as many NGOs and personalities ask, stop negotiations with Mercosur, of which Brazil is a part, because Bolsonaro's attacks on indigenous peoples and the tropical forest are no longer to be demonstrated. So the question is not there. It's about stopping moving goods from one end of the Earth to the other and relocating our production. The stakes are the same as for the energy market that I was talking about right now. It is a position of principle that we defend: we cannot continue this great move of the world which, if I believe the negotiations with New Zealand and Australia, could lead us to import milk from these countries, which is an absolute archaism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u42	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u43	I would also like to refer to the situation with regard to hydro-electric concessions, to regret, like Mr Batho, that the amendments relating to the management of these dams have been found inadmissible under Article 45 of the Constitution. I maintain that this decision is political and not legal. The majority has the right to consider that this text is not the appropriate vehicle for dealing with the issue of hydroelectric dams. But the opposition has the right to consider that the question of the future of the first renewable, decarbonated energy source – energy that serves as storage capacity for other energies that this bill aims to develop – has a link, within the meaning of section 45, even indirect, with the text that we are considering. Hydro-electric concessions have an indirect connection to the issue of energy and climate. So here, I want to criticize what seems to me to be a lock. This extremely extensive approach to Article 45 could lead to a considerable impoverishment of the parliamentary debate by preventing members of the opposition from exercising their right of initiative. In fact, we could only debate what the majority wants to discuss. If you reject our proposals, it is your right, as a majority, but suffer that we can express ourselves on matters of interest to us. Legally, I believe that this argument would stand before the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u44	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u45	First of all, for the first time, a Prime Minister of the Republic referred, in his general policy speech, to dams, these large freshwater reservoirs, and hydropower, and he should be commended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u46	It wasn't the first time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u47	Nevertheless, after Mrs Batho and Mr Aubert, I wish to regret the incomprehensible inadmissibility of the amendments that we tabled, in committee and then in public sitting, even though the text was supplemented by provisions on hydropower. How can it be understood that it is not possible for the national representative to table amendments on a text on energy and climate, thus on the quality and quantity of the water resource available for the next century, relating to hydropower? How can we exclude the second source of energy after nuclear power and the first source of renewable energy from a text whose main purpose is the development of green and renewable energy? As soon as we cannot discuss this issue here, we hope, Mr Minister of State, that you will meet as soon as possible with the territorial and hydropower actors to know how you intend to translate into action the remarks made by the Prime Minister in his general policy speech. What will you do to ensure that the 7.5 billion cubic metres of fresh, almost drinking water currently held by the large dams of our country are preserved, in the general interest, not only for hydropower, but also for other uses of these water reserves?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u48	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u49	First, I would like to welcome the Government's decision to postpone the target of reducing the share of nuclear power generation to 50 per cent from 2025 to 2035. But should we not have to be a little clearer and determine a target for each type of energy? I want to alert you here, Minister – as one of my colleagues did on questions to the Government this afternoon – about the situation of the Earth's wind farm, which in a number of territories creates real treachery, which you cannot ignore because it could become formidable. In fact, the installation of wind turbines raises a real problem of acceptability, particularly in rural areas. Why can't the issue of housing, which we have been able to deal with by law in the area of urban planning, be resolved with regard to the installation of wind turbines? The removal of wind development zones creates difficulties and the lack of understanding by LRPs about the prohibition of wind turbines. You need to measure this territorial divide and this very strong incomprehension in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u50	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u51	Mr.Minister, as I said in the general discussion, I am also very surprised that a number of amendments relating to hydropower were rejected even before they were discussed, when this strategic tool is essential if we are to achieve the objectives set out in the bill. You have given us a number of explanations about what you wanted to do in this area, presenting us with different possibilities. However, since we cannot discuss the renewal of concessions in the context of the examination of this text, I would like, like Mrs Batho, to give us a clear timetable for the decisions you will take and, if there is one, the legislative vehicle that will be chosen to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u52	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u53	Minister, I invite you to abandon the almost romantic, or off-ground, vision of methanization. All over the country, Members of Parliament are alerting you to the drifts that are developing because of the lack of monitoring of the application of the law and to the practices of circumvention – I am thinking in particular of maize sowing – which must challenge you, because they are detrimental to our food and ecological balance. The National Institute for Agricultural Research – INRA – and the engineering schools are working on it. The prospect of a green methanization label that would distinguish good methanization, which encourages farming, from poor methanization, which may threaten it by contributing to higher land prices or increasing the competition of materials, is interesting. In times of drought, some breeders no longer have fodder for their livestock, and prices fly away! It is unbearable and, from an ecological point of view, it is null and counterproductive. I therefore hope that this issue will be seriously studied by the ministries of ecology and agriculture. It is not a question of abandoning methanization, but of giving it its rightful place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u54	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u55	A number of your interventions were probably primarily aimed at raising, in substance, the question of the future of hydropower, of which I know it is dear to all those who sit on the left side of this House and to some of those who sit on the right side.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u56	You're jamming!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u57	The Minister made this clear in his reply to the speakers in the general debate, and it is not at the turn of an amendment on a text on other subjects that this essential problem will be addressed, which is directly linked to the organisation of a large national operator, of which it is known that it is the subject of broader discussions. I also care about the subject because, as you know, I lived ten years in Quebec, where dams are also a very important part of the energy mix. Having said that, a number of you have asked us about the rules that we have applied to decide on the inadmissibility of certain amendments under Article 45 of the Constitution. In this regard, the person who speaks to you has some scars on his back, since the Constitutional Council has invalidated twenty-four articles of the PACTE Act, twenty-three articles of the EGALIM Act and nineteen articles of the ELAN Act, namely a bill of which I was the general rapporteur and two others which were examined in substance by the Committee on Economic Affairs. On the basis of this experience, we, together with my colleague from the Committee on Sustainable Development, wanted to apply a rigorous and as objective method as possible – as I have, moreover, presented to you in detail during the general debate in committee – which was simply to declare inadmissible amendments relating to matters which are not directly related to the objectives set out in this text. This led us to declare inadmissible amendments by the majority group, some from the Government and others from all groups. The meeting had to apply the same principles, which led to the same result.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u58	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u59	I do not wish to resume the debate from the beginning, but simply to give some clarification to Mr Saddier, Mrs Battistel and Mrs Batho. Like Mr. Lescure, I do not have to comment on an internal procedure in the National Assembly. On the other hand, even if the amendments had been declared admissible, we would not have been able to reorganise hydropower in France by means of amendments, through this text, especially if we preferred the way of public control – the other way does not require legislative amendment. Let us be careful not to fall into the caricature. That's not necessarily your case, but the mail I receive from the ministry is cold in the back. They are just copy and paste, but they testify to the lack of knowledge of the hydropower sector in France. Mr Saddier's comments are correct in relation to the Alps. EDF, which is very active in the Alps as in other regions, controls 80% of French hydropower. Moreover, it is this ultra-dominant position that poses a problem. Other operators, however, exist, such as the Compagnie nationale du Rhône, which has evolved. I haveten to remember, because everything is not to be put in the same basket. I am all the more willing to say this because I hear a lot of things about it. Some fear the creation of a single entity, separate from EDF, but it would be absurd to break a business that works. I went to the Gard with the rapporteur to visit a renovated work by the Compagnie nationale du Rhône, which has benefited from new investments. There's no reason to break what's working. Of course, there will always be discontent, because the Compagnie nationale du Rhône, which is a private company, has several shareholders, including the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and Engie. Another company, the SHEM, is present in the Pyrénées mountains. Elected members of this region asked me when we were planning to relaunch the concessions that had expired. They do not demand that they be reassigned to the same society, but that the situation be unlocked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u60	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u61	These dams are important. They want joint work between the State and local authorities on the terms of reference. I made a commitment to it. Mr Saddier, I am prepared to take a concerted approach with the elected representatives of the territories and the persons concerned. These dams play an important role for the territories concerned, which goes beyond electricity generation. As for the timetable, let us be realistic. We will not be able to work on these issues, related to the reorganization of EDF, before 2020. At the request of the Government, the president of EDF presented an internal reorganization project. As often happens, the project was released in the press and misinterpreted. I was able to read that the plan was intended to "cut EDF"! How can we believe for a moment that EDF's CEO wants to cut his business? It's aberrant! The plan is to propose a reorganization within an integrated group. The debate concerns the public or private nature of the various parties. Not everyone agrees, up to the union organisations to which the plan was presented, as well as to EDF's strategic bodies. We proceed in sequence, in stages, but no decision will be taken until 2020, which gives us time to reflect on the situation of the various basins concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u63	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No 192, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u64	Before I introduce this amendment, I would like to point out to Mr Lescure, chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, that, contrary to what he claims, we can deal, by way of amendments, with a flick of extremely important subjects. Any matter may be the subject of a parliamentary amendment. Some amendments relating to hydropower have been declared admissible, as have some relating to the management of energy other than hydropower. A legal problem arises, regardless of the political opinion that can be given as to the desirability of such a debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I come back to the amendment concerning the terms of Article 1, which tends to proclaim an objective without being part of the action. My amendment is therefore intended to draft the first subparagraph as follows: "In order to respond to the environmental and climate emergency, the national energy policy shall ensure the programming of the State's action".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u65	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u66	Mr Cellier, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor to present the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u67	It is true that there must be real programming of the State's action in order to succeed in the energy transition. Today, the PPE – multi-annual energy programming – fulfils this role. After Article 1, I tabled Amendment No 834, which we discussed in committee, and which seeks to enable Parliament to set out the broad guidelines for energy policy. I do not think it appropriate to give this dimension to Article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u68	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u69	I invite you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u70	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u71	We will be debating this issue in Amendment No 834, but I am keeping mine, because one does not exclude the other. Furthermore, Amendment No 834 does not include the concept of programming, which is important to include in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u72	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 197 and 568. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 197.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u73	This substantive amendment tends to rewrite Article 1 to set the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to a 57% carbon footprint reduction between 1990 and 2030. With this amendment, we want to respond to the recommendations of the IPCC report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The debate is not at the level of the ambition that could be nurtured in relation to the efficiency sought, but at the level of the state of scientific knowledge that attests to the acceleration of global warming. The High Climate Council again this morning declared that 60% of France's greenhouse gas emissions were linked to our country's carbon footprint, that is to say, our consumption, our imports. Consequently, this amendment also tends to change our approach to the subject by preferring the concept of carbon footprint to that of greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u74	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 568.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u75	I agree with Mrs. Batho. We are wrong by not taking the carbon footprint into account. As I said in the rostrum, some seek to hide the consequences of our consumption and production model by concealing the carbon footprint. We have a responsibility to retain this concept by measuring the effects. That is the purpose of this amendment. The energy impact of consumer goods cannot be reduced to their production alone. The whole cycle must be taken into account, from the extraction of raw materials to their reprocessing at the end of life, not to mention import. The High Council for Climate, in its report Carbon Neutrality, of a hot news since it came out this morning, says that emissions related to products imported and consumed by the French are not explicitly taken into account in the national targets. In 2015, the carbon footprint of each Frenchman is estimated at 11 tonnes of CO equivalent per person per year, while the final consumption in the territory is only 6.6 tonnes per person per year. If we do not have the right indicator, we will not know exactly what needs to be changed in our model of society. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u76	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u77	First of all, with regard to reducing the carbon footprint by 57%, it is too early to set such a precise target. Current methodologies for calculating the carbon footprint are not yet stabilized. We discussed it in committee. Above all, the new Article 1st sexies tends to provide for carbon footprint reduction targets for each of the periods of the national low carbon strategy. On the other hand, I do not want to impose a factor 8, which would respond to a situation where we are unable to capture carbon or where agriculture is no longer responsible for any emissions, which would mean the end of farming in France. The bill seems ambitious to me, as we move from a factor 4 to a factor greater than 6. As for the definition of carbon neutrality, it is not necessary to exclude technological solutions that can contribute to this very ambitious objective, but I agree with you that they must play a limited role, in addition to natural wells.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u78	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u79	Same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u80	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u81	These two amendments have the advantage of looking at the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as a whole and not just at the national level. If carbon is relocated, it must be reintegrated into the balance sheet. These amendments are logical. However, the objectives set do not seem to be compatible with the means at our disposal. I listened carefully to the replies of the rapporteur and the Minister of State, the latter being more concise. I'm surprised that you're talking about technical but never financial reasons. You outlined an initial response, Mr.Rapporteur, stating that factor 8 would sign the stoppage of breeding in France. But here we write the law for the French. If we were to consider ending the breeding, some breeders would have shown signs of hostility. Mr rapporteur, Mr Minister of State, how much will the decision to retain a factor greater than 6 cost? Which sectors of the economy will they be affected in the field of transport? Have you assessed the social, economic and budgetary consequences of setting such an objective?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u82	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u83	Mr rapporteur, I will later show you that many methods are available to encrypt the carbon footprint, in particular those of INSEE and SNBC – a national low carbon strategy. The 57% reduction is a target for 2030. In my view, the disagreement arises from the need to comply with the IPCC timetable, raising the ambitions to meet the climate emergency between now and 2030 and imposing immediate efforts, not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u84	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u85	We will soon be considering the circular economy bill – or anti-spousal legislation. I do not know his title, but I believe it will be presented to the Council of Ministers on July 3. This text contains concrete elements relating to resource consumption. In a planet with finite contours, finite resources, limited capacity to capture pollutants that we generate like greenhouse gases, we cannot turn a blind eye to our own model of development, consumption, production. We have no choice but to select the right indicators. I listened to the rapporteur, who was approved by the Minister of State. Perhaps I was wrong earlier, for the greatest pleasure of my colleagues in the Republican Group, but we should probably have gone back to committee to reflect in depth on the indicators that will form the basis of our decisions. If we do not keep the right one in a text on energy or climate, we will have to go back to work in a few months because we will have taken decisions that will not meet the challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u86	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 240.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u87	First of all, it aims to take into account the findings of the IPCC SR 15 report in setting the targets to be achieved by 2030. Indeed, the only real question is whether we take this IPCC report seriously and whether we base our legislative decisions on science. The amendment then proposes to divide by eight, compared to 1990, our greenhouse gas emissions in 2050: I would remind you that factor 8 is the one that the Minister of State announced when the original version of the bill was introduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u89	I have already replied to Mrs Batho: I therefore ask her to withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u91	I have already presented my arguments during the examination of the text in committee. That is why I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u92	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u93	First of all, I would like to respond to the comments made by François-Michel Lambert, who advocated a new model of production and consumption. I recalled earlier that, behind the strange alliance of liberals in favour of globalization and some environmentalists, the question arises of the model of capitalism that we are defending. So he asked the right question. What I fear is the end of a certain model of growth: I ask only to be denied. Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur replied in substance to this amendment, which calls for a division of greenhouse gas emissions by eight. I repeat my question: since you want to divide our emissions by a factor greater than six, have you quantified the budgetary and economic cost of the means to achieve this objective? Do you know how much it will cost over the period?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u94	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 45, 111, 236 and 364. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u95	It aims to include Article 1 in the IPCC schedule, by setting the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 at 57% instead of 40%. The IPCC recalls that each degree counts. The report of the High Climate Council calls for an acceleration of the pace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u96	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u97	It aims to strengthen the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from 40 per cent to 57 per cent, in order to fulfil, first of all, the commitment made by the French Government, which is one of the eighty governments to have assured that they would rise to the ambitions they had set out under the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. However, we have not yet done so with regard to the 2030 targets. This is the purpose of this amendment: to remain below the bar of global warming of 1.5 degrees at the end of the century. In addition, efforts to be made over the next 11 years should be stepped up in order not to reserve them for the period 2030-2050.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u98	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 236.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u99	The heart of the debate is whether the climate emergency is just words that are repeated, or whether these words have a concrete translation. According to the IPCC, twelve years remain to radically change – I insist on the adverb "radically" – the organization of our societies. According to the report of the High Climate Council released this morning, a comprehensive approach must be defined: the climate emergency must now be taken into account in all areas, including economic policy. Either these data inspire the drafting of the law, or the law is only a political compromise built on moving sands, since this compromise does not correspond to any scientific data. The target of a 40% reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 does not correspond to anything: it is a political figure, not a scientific one. The scientific figure for France in 2030 is a 57% reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions or carbon footprint – I am not trying to reopen a semantic debate at this stage of our discussions. This bill is based on the outdated vision of a gradual transition, which could be organized over the long term. Such a vision is in complete mismatch with the reality of climate events, the consequences of which are measured by all French people these days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u100	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 364.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u101	I would like to remind Members in the Chamber that the battle over the degree of warming has very important consequences. Let me give you the figures of a study on the ecological and climate emergency: limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, rather than 2 degrees, would allow 73 million people to escape extreme summer heat waves in Europe. Limiting warming to 1.5 degrees would also reduce the number of endangered animal and plant species by half by the end of the century, compared to a 3-degree trajectory. If we want to comply with the IPCC's conclusions that we have 12 years left to act, we must adopt our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u103	I share your willingness to make this bill an ambitious piece of legislation on energy and climate. However, reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 57% by 2030 compared to 1990 does not seem realistic. If I share your desire to raise the level of our ambitions, very important changes, or even real transformations, must be initiated in all sectors of our economy, in order to achieve the ambitions that we have already set ourselves. A 57% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 seems, I repeat, a difficult target to achieve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u105	I would like to take advantage of the examination of these identical amendments to clarify the debate on the level of ambition, which is entirely legitimate, and therefore on a possible acceleration of the pace at which France wishes to fulfil its commitments. The national low-carbon strategy already exceeds 40 per cent, but does not reach 57 per cent. I understand your reasoning all the better, Mrs Batho, because I know that you are also developing a rather radical speech – I take the word you have used. We have a more realistic choice for ourselves. On the other hand, I am embarrassed, vis-à-vis our fellow citizens, when I hear some call for a raise in the level of our ambitions, while at the same time they refuse the concrete measures to achieve them, not in twenty or thirty years, as Mrs Batho has pointed out, but in the next ten years – a period that exceeds that of a political mandate but on which it is possible to act –, a fortiori over the next five years. If we take these concrete measures, then we are faced not only with possible resistance from French society and the French economy, but also with political campaigns of systematic opposition on the part of those who demand a redefinition to the rise of our ambitions. If this systematic opposition came from climatosceptics – I heard on the radio this morning, Mr Aliot doubting the human origin of climate change – it would be understandable: in their eyes, no need to make efforts! But how can we understand that such an opposition can come from people who are tabling amendments like those we are currently considering? Should I remind you of the debates we had at the end of last year? I repeat in the Chamber what I have already said in committee: when it comes to mentioning one of the tools – he is not the only one – which is recognised worldwide as one of the most effective in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, namely carbon taxation, the majority felt a little alone to defend it before the French. We have even had to face a heavy barrage from the united opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u107	Some argued that another tool should be developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u108	There is no ecological justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u109	Either, but which one? Whenever we ask, we do not receive any response. We could multiply the examples. It is not possible to tell General Electric's workers in Belfort that it is necessary to nationalize their company, in order to continue producing and exporting gas turbines worldwide, and to demand, in the National Assembly, greater targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, or even the elimination of export support, including financial guarantees, for companies selling gas-fired power plants abroad. I went to all the territories of France and Navarre: I was even the first member of the government to meet yellow vests – it was November 12, 2018 in Vendée. Well, everywhere in France, I'm asked to make a two-way deviation twice, so that I can drive at 110 km-hour and not at 90, let alone at 80 – you don't think about it! I am also being asked to remove any binding measures on cars. I could multiply the examples. At some point, coherence should be achieved by accepting concrete means to achieve the objectives set. I've heard about the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth: how can we claim that the ISF can reduce greenhouse gas emissions? We need to have a serious discussion on the tax tools that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The ISF can be of further use and can achieve other objectives: it has no influence on greenhouse gas emissions. I could even show you that it could slow down private investment in reducing these emissions. Our discussion must focus on concrete, real tools. I know that Mrs Batho is fighting in other forums to demand a much more radical change in society. On the other hand, what rhymes to go round the roundabouts by proclaiming: "I want sun" – a salad in this taste...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u110	No! There's no salad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u111	...and: "Mostly guys, we don't change anything! Instead of being present at the National Assembly, or coming there only to give moral lessons, saying: "It's no longer possible! There's millions of people dead because of you! "?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u112	That's not true! You are contemptuous, both for associations and for deputies. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u113	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Such a moralist discourse is unbearable, because it does not target any concrete and coherent action to achieve results. But what we are looking for is results.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u114	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u115	It is always interesting to attend a debate between old and new ecologists. First of all, I want to go back to factors 6 and 8. Atmosphere CO stock: 3200 billion tonnes; annual global discharge: 33 billion tonnes; annual discharge from France: 0.33 billion tonnes. If the entire world, including France, continued to emit CO at the current level, the CO stock would increase by 2050 and the global temperature with it by about 0.2 degrees. France's contribution to this intolerable increase in temperature would be 0.0026 degrees, i.e. 26 thousandths of a degree. If France gradually reduced its discharges to zero, by 2050, the global temperature would decrease by 13 thousandths of a degree. If France divided them by four, the temperature of the globe would decrease by 10 thousandths of a degree, by six, by 11 thousandths and, by eight, by 12 thousandths. So you're debating a thousandth of a degree of temperature. That being said, I ask you, because I am stubborn, to clarify the cost of these reduction targets, because at some point an efficiency report is needed. Mr Minister of State, Mr rapporteur, you are in favour of a division by six of our programmes, while Mrs Batho is in favour of a radical change in the organisation of society. If the adoption of factor 6 leads to the removal of part of agriculture and to the transformation of half of the French into pedestrians, it will be necessary to tell them and to quantify the cost of the measure! It is not possible to include in a bill an ambitious goal of dividing greenhouse gas emissions by six without ever looking at the means. We heard the same speech in a previous legislature. A majority wanted to close about ten nuclear power plants in ten years. As a result, none has been closed, because these closures have a cost. The Fessenheim plant has economic consequences, not to mention compensation. I repeat for the third time my question: have you quantified the cost of the means to achieve these objectives?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u116	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u117	I will be very brief, because we need to spend more time discussing the measures of the bill. First, a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions was France's commitment prior to COP 21. Since then, France has decided to increase this target. Secondly, I agree with the Minister of State that it would be very difficult to reduce these emissions by 57% by 2030, but that is the only objective that allows us to be consistent with a limited warming of 1.5 degrees. I do not want France to take note now of the failure of the strategy to limit warming to 1.5 degrees. We will have an opportunity to discuss this later, but ecological taxation is a tool. From the beginning of their movement, the yellow vests said that they were not against ecology, but that they wanted to get a number of things. The issue of ecological taxation is not going to be revived today, but there are solutions: more redistribution, more tax justice, extending carbon taxation, more French support, and more massive investment in the ecological transition to new sectors. The 55% reduction in emissions was not intended to introduce an unattainable goal into the debate: it allowed us to be in line with the messages of scientists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u118	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u119	First of all, I would like to counter Julien Aubert's reasoning on the French contribution to the fight against global warming. France is the country that has given the world the Declaration of Human Rights, social security and many other things. The action of France, which we must carry out for ourselves, can also inspire that of other countries throughout the world, faced with what is the greatest catastrophe in history of all time, an unprecedented and unparalleled catastrophe in the history of planet Earth and humanity. That's what we're talking about! Next to that, any political digression seems to me to be quite derisory. The question raised by this amendment is whether or not, as legislators, we are sitting on the report of the IPCC SR15 or whether we are looking at it in the opposite direction. Mr rapporteur, you said that these amendments were not realistic: I cannot agree with you. What is not realistic is not listening to what scientists say. What is completely crazy and utopian is to think that the current model of society can continue quietly. That is why I am maintaining my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u120	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u121	[["Reciprocity is true! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, respect our positions! We can do as much as we want on political projects, but there is absolutely no need to tell anything about my fellow Members. Also respect associations! In addition, we have a dispute. You're defending a system-accompanied ecology. You think the market can magically create things that will solve greenhouse gas emissions, the ecological crisis, global warming. We say, on the basis of examples, that this is not true. For example, the opening up of the rail system to competition has led to a 40% increase in truck traffic on roads and aggravates global warming. The yellow vests, which you mentioned, demand ecological justice: they say that the biggest polluters must first pay. It is wrong to say that we are not making proposals on the subject. It did not escape you – you talked about it in a media outlet – that we tabled, together with colleagues present tonight, a bill on the issue of domestic flights. You may or may not agree, but that's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u122	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u123	We have had the opportunity, on these benches, perhaps on too many occasions, to denounce, a little in the form of slogans, your tax choices, which you assume: the removal of the ISF is one among others. However, we have developed a number of proposals here as part of the review of the major debate. I myself have made proposals which, of course, require funding to extend the assistance of the National Housing Agency – ANAH – to the owners a little less modest than those who are the beneficiaries of it today, but who belong to the middle classes who have difficulties in achieving a thermal rehabilitation of their property. I indicated that it seemed to us crucial that the public energy performance service be one of your ministry's urgent projects, in order to promote this thermal rehabilitation. Finally, you know very well that the conversion of employees and territories which will be affected by certain closures provided for in this text will require considerable financial efforts, which we believe must necessarily produce results, because it is about the social accessibility and the economic balance not only of these territories but of entire regions. This is how we ask you to interpret our few comments on your tax choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u124	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 79, 96 and 369, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 96 and 369 are identical. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 79.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u125	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u126	Amendment No 96 by Mr Dino Cinieri is being defended. Amendment No 369 by Mrs Mathilde Panot is also being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u127	Unfavorable opinion. I just want to make a point: Article 4 of the Paris Agreement aims at carbon neutrality in the second part of this century. In committee, we made a commitment to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. We can be blamed for not being ambitious enough and, Minister of State, I believe that this will be our daily lot during the debates. However, we try to have a position of balance: some of us will blame ourselves for not being ambitious enough and for not providing enough resources, but we set pragmatic and realistic goals, to finally achieve them. As Ms. Batho and Mr. Orphelin have said, there is an ecological and climate emergency. We're going to have to live up to our goals. That is the meaning of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u129	Same argument as before, and same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u130	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u131	[[Smile]] I have the impression that the Government and the rapporteur have eyes only for Mrs Batho and that the other arguments are unknown. Perhaps they are less structured, but, for the fourth time, I would like to insist, because I want to have an answer. We can be proactive and show great ambitions: for example, I want all French people to have an electric car in 2021. However, we are not here to gauge abstract ambitions, but to make a concrete law, as President Lescure says. To make a concrete law is to specify the costs and means of each ambition, and to define the best possible path, taking into account our constraints. So, did you evaluate factor 6? How much will it cost financially and economically? What sectors will be affected? Mrs Batho rightly: setting a very ambitious objective implies a radical transformation of the economic system. However, we differ on one point: when you produce a little less than 1% of greenhouse gas emissions, you are not going to make an economic hara-kiri that will have a very limited impact on the overall problem, since those who can actually weigh in the balance do nothing. We weigh 40 kilos all wet. China and the United States weigh much more: the regime therefore applies much more to them than to us. This does not necessarily mean that we must not make efforts: we must make ambitious and reasonable efforts in relation to the French' ability to accept them. Otherwise, the same causes will produce the same effects, and there will be yellow vests or other manifestations when this becomes unbearable. We must be reasonable and take into account our means and the economic situation in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u133	I'm going to give Mr. Aubert a first answer. First of all, I note – it is in the interest of the debate – that you have taken a more clear position than when defending the motion to reject beforehand: you are not in favour of a number of efforts if the other countries do not do so or if they pose economic problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u134	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u135	I recognize your consistency, Mr. Aubert. You are also defending a rather sovereignist line and do not believe much in international negotiations and the European effort. We're doing this. The French will judge in 2022. At European level, we are defending this objective: France is leading the European battle for carbon neutrality. This is far from being won on a European scale! Some countries refuse to do so. At the last European Council, we have at least got countries to come together around this perspective, even though some of them are challenging the 2050 deadline. We're not alone, but we're leading the battle. We are not going to lose in advance, on the grounds that the United States would not act. I don't know what your position is with regard to the American position. We're fighting it. In the same vein, we have been very clear with Brazil: there will be no trade agreement with MERCOSUR if Brazil does not make a clear commitment to respect the Paris Climate Agreement. [[Mr. Aubert laughs]] Concerning the requested figures, they are to be taken with tweezers, taking into account the time scales. They are included in the national low-carbon strategy: 3% more growth than the current scenario, by 2050. So it is rather a virtuous circle in terms of economic activity! Thus, 300,000 jobs will be created by 2030, and between 700000 and 800,000 by 2050. You sneeze when I give the numbers you asked for!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u136	I was asking you for the cost!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u137	These figures have been confirmed by the Treasury. I repeat, they are to be taken with tweezers, because neither you, nor me, nor anyone in this assembly can accurately say what is going to happen between 2040 and 2050, technologically, economically and internationally. We are building multi-year energy programming and a national low-carbon strategy that is not based on a possible technological discovery that would change everything in the next five or ten years. However, at a time of twenty or thirty years, it can be said that not everything is written in advance. I'll give you the figures for public and private investment as soon as I get them, but we have to compare them to the current investment. Indeed, the aim is to reorient certain investments in order to accelerate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This will often be done by substitution. The goal is not that every Frenchman has in his garage a petrol car and an electric car. In the long run, the electric car must replace the petrol car. And I could give many other examples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u138	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u139	Minister of State, thank you for your miraculous response. In your opinion, factor 6 and factor 8 cost nothing: they only create jobs and growth. In that case, I do not understand why you oppose Mr. Orphelin and Mrs. Batho. Even factor 10 would have to be foreseen: there would be even more jobs and more growth! If ships from cruise can no longer use fossil products and they must be replaced, there will be an economic cost. If millions of French people are forced to drive in electric vehicles that will no longer be able to use certain components, there will be an economic cost. If certain industries, such as plastics, can no longer exist, there will be an economic cost. Either I asked my question wrong,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u140	That's possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u141	...or your presentation suffers from a rationality problem. If you think that factors 6 and 8 only have positive effects, I don't understand why you refuse to go much further – as much as having 4% growth because, if factor 6 leads to 3% growth, I guess factor 8 generates even more! Intuitively, something bothers me in your reasoning: I do not see how you can carry out a radical reorganization of the economy without raising any costs. You probably forgot to count the costs. Just now, for example, the rapporteur has let go of the fact that under factor 8, there would be no more breeding in France: in my view, this disappearance must be taken into account among the costs. So I'm asking for serious encryption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u142	I have before me four amendments, Nos 201, 46, 98 and 115, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 201.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u143	I already defended him earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u144	Amendments Nos 46 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel and 98 by Mr Dino Cinieri are also defended. I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 115.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u145	This is, in a way, a compromise amendment, now factor 6, but it is also clear that factor 8 can be addressed. Mr Aubert, I'm going to offer you the book Drawdown – How to reverse the course of global warming, which is looking at 100 solutions to combat global warming. You will see that these solutions can also be cost-effective. I'm sure you'll find pleasure there. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] For some time now, we have been wondering how the other countries will act if France makes efforts. This is a subject for discussion, particularly with regard to the link between our environmental policy and trade agreements. We will soon have an opportunity to discuss in this House the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with Canada, CETA. As for the agreement with Mercosur, it poses a real problem. Today, Mr Bolsonaro states that Brazil will remain in the Paris Agreement. However, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to observe the rate of deforestation since the first few weeks of his presidency: it is a real bomb in terms of CO emissions. Can a country like Brazil remain in the Paris agreement while pursuing policies with an opposite objective? We will have to find solutions to this paradox.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u146	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u147	What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u148	Same argument as before. Request for withdrawal, if not unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u150	Same argument and same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u151	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u152	I'm glad I've already won a book! Mr. Minister of State, your response earlier was a bit caricatural. I would not like to let you think that there would be, on the one hand, the good people, who would lead the battle of the climate and who would be in favour of international cooperation, and, on the other hand, the wicked sovereignists, who would be in favour of the isolation of France in this battle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u153	You have the right to be climatosceptic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u154	Although the COPs are a useful forum for discussion, they have not yet been translated into commitments by some polluter states. Unfortunately, when commitments were made, they were not fulfilled. In my view, it is much more useful to set an example: it actually goes through voluntary commitments – from this point of view, we join – provided that they are based on rational analysis and that we do not set ourselves objectives worthy of the USSR, which are perfectly unattainable and which we will not achieve. This implies a little rationality. Mr Minister of State, when I show in a report on wind turbines that between 70 and 90 billion euros have been committed, the equivalent of the historic nuclear fleet, to produce 15% of our electricity, whereas the same expenditure has produced 75% of our electricity for 40 years, it is a mathematical analysis. It can be challenged, but it allows for arbitration. As far as energy transition is concerned, the policy you are pursuing is not the only one that is possible. Other subjects should be diversified, other sectors should be invested: we should have this debate... I see, Minister of State, you're looking at your watch. It's annoying, but democracy takes time. The reform of the Rules of Procedure has not yet entered into force, but even by preventing parliamentarians from defending certain amendments and by compressing the discussions, you will still have to listen to those damned opposition Members who do not share your opinion and who persist in wanting to make theirs heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u155	And they're obstructing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u156	I'm really sorry, but unfortunately, we're going to spend a few more hours together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u157	It's a real happiness!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u158	So much so that it is pleasant, that we can debate and have concrete and precise answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u159	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u160	Our debate is interesting, but a little surreal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u161	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u162	It looks like a discussion of the past century. Can we be more ambitious? Will our fellow citizens accept it? Is that realistic? In fact, the countdown is on: it ticks, taps, and it brings us closer, day after day, to the abyss. We are likely to fall into this situation in the near future. We continue to walk, not after steps, towards the abyss of global climate change, of a warming of more than 2 degrees whose consequences will be lethal for the human species. Whole territories of our planet will become uninhabitable. Displacement of populations, geopolitical and geostrategic issues will lead us to barbarism. Yes, we have to slow down. Yes, we have to organize the decay of energy. Yes, we must put an end to the hyperconsumption society. Yes, we must take this debate seriously, without seeking the right balance between what we can do and what we cannot do, but taking into account the reality of the facts. We are politically obliged to return to reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u163	We're not in the 19th century anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u164	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 340.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u165	It is intended to remove the definition of carbon neutrality that we have included in the bill. As much as it seems to me wise to set our political goal of achieving carbon neutrality in 2050, I find it completely stupid – let me speak frankly – to introduce into the bill a precise definition that has not been the subject of any consultation with our European partners. Our goal of carbon neutrality is 2050. However, we are in 2019 and we have not taken care to think together about a definition of this carbon neutrality that we have included in the bill. I simply propose to take the time to discuss with our European partners, in particular with the future European Commission, to come together to a common definition of carbon neutrality before inserting it into the bill. Indeed, the way we define carbon neutrality is not neutral for our economy – I am thinking in particular of imports of products that meet different definitions of carbon neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u167	Madame de La Raudière, you wish to delete the definition of carbon neutrality introduced in this bill on the grounds that the European Union has not yet defined this concept.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u168	By 2050, we have time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u169	The definition we have introduced in committee is that contained in the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u170	I admit it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u171	I would even be tempted to say that we are more ambitious, since we do not incorporate carbon credits internationally. It would be strange to set the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050 without defining its content. By being one of the first countries to define carbon neutrality, France will be able to influence the definition adopted at European level. That is the ambition I am giving to my country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u172	Well, good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u174	Mrs de La Raudière, we do not need to wait for a European definition. French law only incorporates the concept of carbon neutrality contained in the 2015 Paris Agreement. At European level, we are trying to convince all our partners – and we have already convinced a number of them – to adhere to the same ambition. It is absolutely not a question of definition! I have heard you say that by 2050 we will have time to define carbon neutrality. Not at all! We want to determine a trajectory, so we must not wait until 2040 or 2045 to describe the goal we want to achieve. In fact, we do not want to remain in the proclamation, but to carry out programmes of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u175	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 374.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u176	The aim is to clarify the definition of carbon neutrality, which excludes technological and industrial solutions. You said, Minister of State, that you were not expecting a hypothetical technological solution, but it is better when you write it. Our definition also incorporates anthropogenic emissions from imports of goods, including transportation-related emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u178	The definition contained in the Paris Agreement must be retained. You want to integrate the carbon footprint, i.e. the emission of imported products, into the concept of carbon neutrality; I think we need to differentiate between these two concepts. Nor should technological capture solutions be excluded, even if they must remain a limited complement to natural carbon sinks. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u180	I agree with the rapporteur's argument and opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u181	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 199.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u182	For my part, it seems to me extremely important to include in the law a definition of carbon neutrality, as this concept may have many biases or perverse effects. Thus, it is very important to clarify, as the bill does, that carbon neutrality includes all greenhouse gases and that it is understood without the use of international carbon credits. Amendment No 199 seeks to clarify the issue of negative emissions. The reports of the IPCC and the High Climate Council refer to possible future technologies for the recovery, capture or storage of CO in the atmosphere; However, according to most scientists, the use of negative emissions is currently based only on theoretical scenarios. In my view, we cannot build carbon neutrality, and therefore the decline in the efforts we were talking about earlier, on the assumption that future technology will save humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u184	Man's emission actions can be assumed by man in terms of absorption. The forest has a greater absorption capacity when managed by humans. Similarly, by cultivating their fields, farmers contribute to carbon capture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u185	It depends on the practices!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u186	It depends on the practices, but I trust our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u187	I also trust our breeders!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u188	However, we must not deprive ourselves of the technological solutions to capture, even if – we will be discussing them just now – these solutions must remain a limited complement to natural carbon sinks. Nature is doing very well without us: man must assume the greenhouse gases he emits in order to be able to recover and capture them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u190	The same argument as the rapporteur and the same unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u191	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 764.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u192	This is the first amendment inspired by the High Climate Council, whose report this morning states that "the objective of carbon neutrality is consistent with the objectives of the Paris Agreement [...], but does not cover France's full responsibility because emissions from international air and maritime transport and imports are not included. » The purpose of Amendment No 764 is therefore to include in the calculation emissions related to domestic consumption. This is a very important debate: not to vote on this amendment would be to limit the scope of carbon neutrality to 40% of France's contribution to greenhouse gas emissions, and thus to global warming. Currently, imported emissions, that is, our carbon footprint linked to domestic consumption, and hence industrial relocations, account for 60% of French greenhouse gas emissions. So when we talk about carbon neutrality, we need to talk about 100 per cent of emissions, not just 40 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u193	Mrs Batho, would you like to present Amendment No 763 at the same time?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u194	This is another wording of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u196	Mrs. Batho, you'll end up believing that we agree on everything! Indeed, the reduction of national greenhouse gas emissions should not be achieved through the export and relocation of emissions abroad. However, two objectives must be retained: one in terms of carbon neutrality, which targets greenhouse gas emissions in the territory – that is the objective set by the other signatories to the Paris Agreement – and the other in terms of carbon footprint, that is, emissions from French consumption, which we have introduced in committee during a long exchange that we have had.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u197	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u198	Same argument and same unfavorable position.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u199	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u200	This vote is important because if we do not refer to carbon footprints or emissions related to domestic consumption in the definition of carbon neutrality, we will have perverse effects in a few years' time. France will be able to boast and content itself with reducing its greenhouse gas emissions, as we are doing today by saying that we have reduced them by 19% between one and another year, whereas in reality our country's carbon balance will have worsened as a result of industrial relocations and the absence of environmental criteria for imports into France. There is therefore a great danger not to add this necessary precision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u201	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u202	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u203	This is an important point, which needs to be clarified. In the current situation, all countries that have signed the Paris Agreement – with the exception of one, the United States of America, which, as we know, has withdrawn from it – reduce their greenhouse gas emissions relative to their production. If, therefore, what is produced on their soil and exported is counted for their greenhouse gas emissions, it will not be counted twice. To take a concrete example, CO2 emissions from the production of a mobile phone manufactured in China are counted as CO2 emissions from China. If China meets its international commitments to reduce CO2 emissions, the process of manufacturing mobile phones or any other product will have to incorporate a reduction in CO2 emissions, otherwise China will not meet its commitments. We must be serious: we cannot make efforts for our manufacturing processes and count as our own emissions those of other countries that do not make efforts in their own manufacturing processes and nevertheless affect the economic benefits of their exports. There is, of course, a certain culture in France which means that we still have a little bit of a bad conscience and that we believe that it is up to us to make efforts, and not to the other countries, but the approach of the Paris agreement on climate is to undertake joint efforts, costed and evaluated on a country-by-country basis and taking into account the initial situation, which differs from country to country – some were few emitters fifty years ago or even thirty years ago, while others were more so. We can't count the emissions twice. The carbon footprint approach is interesting to know whether France does not buy many products that have generated CO2 emissions, which indirectly enables us to measure whether or not the countries we import these products make efforts. Otherwise, it is a real fundamental problem with regard to our conception of international climate agreements: it would be considered in advance that some countries are not making efforts, which will bring down the entire building of the Paris climate agreement. I therefore really call for a vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u204	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u205	This exchange on CO2 imports through domestic consumption is very interesting. Indeed, relocation and deindustrialisation allow us to welcome a decrease in CO2 emissions, but if this decrease is actually the mechanical result of the shipment to other countries of the CO2-emitting industries, the result will be the same for the planet. In this respect, Mrs Batho's amendments clarify things. This discussion also allowed us to hear the Minister of State demonstrate a point of weakness in the Paris agreements and to realize that, perhaps, the battle he is waging could prove to be rigged. Indeed, in many areas, Chinese statistics do not have the reliability of ours. I will therefore vote for Mrs Batho's amendments, which have the advantage of showing that it is a mistake to achieve the objectives of reducing CO2 emissions by deindustrialising us. The proposed measure will allow for a real reduction in greenhouse gas emissions through a change in our consumption patterns, and not in a hijacked way of hiding carbon under the carpet by sending it to the Chinese or the Indian to consider it their problem. Indeed, the way in which Chinese, Indian or American governments approach the issue of ecological transition is very different. This would therefore make it possible to take into account 100 per cent of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u206	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 377.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u207	This is a fallback amendment compared to the one I defended earlier, which dealt with the definition of carbon neutrality. I repeat to the rapporteur, who said earlier that technological solutions could be kept open, as a hypothesis, and that, on the contrary, we must close the door to that. Otherwise, there will be no better way than to continue to wait for a solution that can provide us with the efforts we need today to reduce emissions; We would also risk overestimating the development of natural carbon sinks. This definition therefore excludes technological and industrial solutions to capture greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u209	I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u211	We have already argued in this regard. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u212	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 762.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u213	I would like to say at the outset that I am in favour of respecting the Paris Agreement, but I note that at this stage a large number of countries do not respect it. I advocate a change in the way greenhouse gas emissions are calculated, which will allow a number of rich countries to take account of their responsibilities – France, for example, which allows Total to import 300,000 tonnes of palm oil at the expense of the forest. Amendment No 762 proposes a different wording, which removes the objections of the rapporteur and the minister by inserting the reference to emissions related to imports and exports in the first paragraph of Article L. 100-4, the last sentence of which would now be: "The trajectory is specified in the carbon budgets referred to in Article L. 222-1 A of the Environmental Code, taking into account consumption-related greenhouse gas emissions, obtained by adding import-related emissions to national emissions and removing export-related emissions. Carbon budgets are defined by decree. » This alternative wording is, in response to the Minister's comments, different in its implications from that proposed in the previous amendments, while extending the same idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u215	We voted in committee on Article 1e on the objectives of reducing the carbon footprint by period of the national low-carbon strategy. It's already a step forward. Perhaps Mrs Batho will find that this is not enough, but I already welcome the almost unanimous adoption of this amendment in committee last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u217	Always the same argument, with an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u218	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u219	Mr rapporteur, this provision has been adopted, and we will come back to it just now, because it is not perfect, but here we are talking about the major article of the Energy Code, which defines the objectives of energy policy. However, this article is only about reducing greenhouse gas emissions on our soil, and it ignores the problem of 60% of French greenhouse gas emissions, linked to our carbon footprint. Article L. 100-4 of the Energy Code, which defines the objectives, cannot be limited to just 40% of our carbon balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u220	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 279, 646, 367, 155, 134, 257 and 422 which can be put to joint discussion. Amendment No 422 corrected is the subject of two sub-amendments, No 861, second rectification, and 869 corrected. I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u221	The main determinant of our new energy strategy must be energy sobriety and reduced consumption. This amendment therefore tends to set intermediate targets for this reduction in consumption to complement the 20% reduction requirement by 2030, with a reduction target of 7% by 2023 and 17% by 2028. Our colleague Jean-Charles Colas-Roy had launched this very interesting discussion in committee. Indeed, it is important that we set intermediate targets for the main determinant of our energy strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u222	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 646.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u223	It is also within this framework that we propose to bring the final reduction in energy consumption to 25% by 2030, taking into account, on the one hand, some reviews carried out on the side of ADEME, but also, strictly speaking, the commitments that this bill provides for, for example, in the area of housing and transport, even if we believe that they will be difficult to fulfil. You tell us that you want to raise the level of reductions and set, through your commitments, performance obligations in public policies directly interested in reducing energy consumption. This amendment takes you in a way to reach this target of 25% reduction in energy consumption by the middle of 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u224	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 367.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u225	This amendment is also intended to go further than the current objective. We propose to increase the reduction of energy consumption to 22%. As our colleague Matthieu Orphelin said earlier, the first reduction efforts are the most cost-effective and the easiest to obtain technically and economically. It would therefore be interesting to go further than what the bill currently provides. In order to meet Mr Aubert, even if he is no longer there, achieving this 22% reduction target is perfectly achievable by prioritizing the essential needs in the use of energy through sobriety actions – extinguishing illuminated windows and unoccupied offices at night, containing urban sprawl – but also by reducing the amount of energy needed to satisfy the same need thanks to energy efficiency, for example by insulating buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u226	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 155.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u227	The purpose of this amendment is to incorporate intermediate targets – minus 10% in 2023 and minus 18% in 2028 – for actions to reduce energy consumption in France to be implemented gradually.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u228	Amendment No 134 by Mrs Delphine Batho is being defended. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 257.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u229	The Green Growth Energy Transition Act set a target of 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2030. In its 2018 energy renovation plan, the Government indicated that this trajectory could not be met and that the scale of the challenges could even discourage, hence the revision setting an intermediate target of 17 per cent. Like the authors of the previous amendments, we are in favour of setting intermediate targets – minus 7% by 2022 and minus 17% by 2028. It is necessary to be proactive in resuming this trajectory and in order to ensure that the current government is committed to an intermediate target of 7% for the end of the mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u230	I have before me an amendment No 422 corrected which is the subject of two sub-amendments, No 861 second rectification and No 869 corrected. Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u231	End of the exploitation of hydrocarbons by 2040, end of the sale of vehicles using fossil fuels by 2040 also: these advances were defended during the consideration of the mobility bill by my colleagues Jean-Luc Fugit and Jean-Marc Zulesi, whom I see here. These long-term objectives reflect a vision. In this bill, we include carbon neutrality in 2050, a division of at least six of our greenhouse gas emissions from the 1990 benchmark, a 40 per cent reduction in fossil energy consumption in 2030 and a 20 per cent reduction in our energy consumption. This amendment, to which Matthieu Orphelin referred, and I thank him for it, aims to establish intermediate milestones in addition to the long-term objectives, in order to set a progressive curve, a path to reduce our final energy consumption effectively: a first target of 7% reduction by 2023, corresponding to the end of the first phase of the multi-annual energy programming of 2018-2023, and then a target of 17% by 2028, at the end of the second phase of 2023-2028, to reach less than 20% by 2030. It is really essential that Parliament is involved in shaping our path to carbon neutrality. Our group will also present an amended amendment No 833 to better involve Parliament in the drafting, every five years, of objectives in the framework of a programme law complementary to the EPP, which is now only a decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u232	I call Mr Cellier to support sub-amendments Nos. 861 and 869, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u233	The aim is to remove the intermediate target of reducing consumption by 2028 and to keep the target for 2023, specifying that the reduction will have to reach about 7%. Estimates made in the context of the development of the EPP show that the reduction in consumption could be slightly greater than or less than 7%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u234	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u235	Opinion in favour of Amendment No 422 corrected, subject to the adoption of the sub-amendments, and unfavourable to all the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u237	Opinion in favour of Amendment No 422 corrected if it is not amended, and therefore in favour of Mr Cellier's sub-amendments. Request for withdrawal of other amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u238	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u239	I prefer Amendment No 422 as corrected, not amended. With all due respect for you, Mr rapporteur, what bothers me most in sub-amendment No 861, second rectification, is that you add the word 'about': that would be the only objective in this article with the word 'about'. I hope that we will retain the spirit of the amendment and vote collectively against this sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u240	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor to support Amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u241	The purpose of this amendment is to include, as soon as the law comes into force, the idea of a gradual reduction in the primary energy consumption of fossil fuels, in order to ensure that a proactive approach is taken to the reduction of the same primary energy consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u243	You want to introduce the idea of progressivity in reducing the primary energy consumption of fossil fuels; This will be the case de facto. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u245	The Government is opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u246	Mr Mbaye, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u247	I would like to have a little more explanation from the rapporteur. You say that this will be "de facto" the case; However, the current wording of this article does not make it possible to affirm this. We must, because the debates require it, ensure the credibility of public action vis-à-vis civil society, and in particular with regard to environmental associations. It is therefore important that the rapporteur clarifies his remarks, or that the wording of this article be changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u248	I have before me two amendments, Nos 766 and 109, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 766.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u249	It's kind of the same discussion as before. The bill proposes to increase the effort to reduce fossil energy consumption to 40 per cent, which is insufficient compared to the IPCC report. The aim of this amendment is therefore to increase it to 50% – we could add "at least" – in 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u250	Amendment No 109 by Mr Dino Cinieri is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u251	You want to reduce the primary energy consumption of fossil fuels by 50% and not more than 40% by 2030. First of all, I would like to point out that this bill is much more ambitious than the Green Growth Energy Transition Act to reduce our fossil energy consumption. I understand that you think this is not yet ambitious enough, but it plans to reduce this consumption by 40%, not more than 30%. A 50% reduction by 2030 seems unrealistic. In 2017, we consumed 121.4 million tonnes of oil equivalent of fossil energy: in order to achieve the target of 30% reduction in consumption by 2030, we should have consumed only 114.2 million tonnes of oil equivalent of fossil energy in 2017. Request for withdrawal, if not unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u252	On Amendment No 227, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u253	I agree with the rapporteur. However, I would like to ask Members of the European Parliament about various political trends which introduce such amendments, what is their trajectory, sector by sector. 33 % of fossil energy consumption is in transport, i.e. individual cars, trucks and, marginally only, air transport and maritime transport. I would like to know whether, in eleven years, we are able to reduce by 50%, that is, more than the trajectory we have already increased from 30% to 40%. I have heard Members, including members of Mr Rolland's group and Mr Nury, explain that the mere prospect of no longer selling thermal cars in 2040 was totally unrealistic and posed major problems, whether in industry or in usage. I am still struck by the fact that when we ask the question – not just here tonight, because we know all these debates, which we have been following for a long time – there is no answer. And even, regarding the electric car, the current pace is considered by many as too fast, while it sells 100,000 per year out of the 2 million new vehicles sold each year. The trajectory of car emissions, which we have imposed on car manufacturers through a European decision – France has led ambitious countries – consists of a reduction of 37.5% between 2020 and 2030, knowing that a first reduction is already planned in 2020: even this is considered too harsh for the automotive industry. How can such objectives be achieved if we are also asking for softer slopes for the efforts to be made in the car?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u254	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u255	I did not feel affected by the minister's remark, since this amendment is consistent with all the amendments that I have advocated in the Mobility Act, whether it is to move the date of the release of fossil fuels for the automobile sector or to put an end to unnecessary air links, which are not anodizing in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. This proposal is supported by 69% of the French if I believe a survey published this afternoon, proof that they are ready to make efforts. In fact, the debate is whether the state of climate emergency translates into concrete choices or whether, whenever it comes to practical work, it is argued that this is not realistic, that we cannot, that it is not progressive enough, etc. The urgency imposes heavy societal changes and I cannot answer to every argument that there would be a problem of coherence. On the one hand, I ask that the PPE be provided for by law, precisely in order to be able to determine the carbon budget sector by sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u256	We'll do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u257	On the other hand, Minister, there were not many politicians to say in front of the yellow vests that the carbon tax was indispensable, and I was.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u258	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u259	That wasn't the case with François Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u260	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 227.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u261	This amendment by our colleague Marine Brenier is intended to clarify the replacement resources that will be used to compensate for the use of fossil fuels. It is important that the energy transition really respects the stated ecological objectives. Some renewable energy sources, such as solar panels or wind turbines, can sometimes have adverse environmental impacts, including the use of certain materials. This is the case for rare earths used in the manufacture of certain wind turbines, whose extraction is extremely polluting. The aim here is to maintain the ecological objective and not to postpone the problem to another level of the energy production chain. This amendment encourages the framework for decarbonization and the transition to renewable energy in order to ensure respect for the main objective of the bill, the protection of the environment. To make a 3 megawatt wind turbine, it sometimes takes up to 2700 kilos of rare earth. The development of "green" technologies is based on the exploitation of these rare earths in China under scandalous health and environmental conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u262	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u263	This amendment seems to me to be satisfactory. ADEME carries out life-cycle analyses to understand the environmental impacts of renewable production. These analyses show low CO2 emissions over the lifetime of renewable energy – a rate of 12.7 grams of CO2 per kilowatt-hour for terrestrial wind turbines. Also know that a recycling system for solar panels is in place. As for the blades of carbon fiber wind turbines, come to my constituency: I'll introduce you to a company, Extracthive, that invented a deenzyme system. Renewable energy is therefore no longer a source of parallel pollution. Once again, your amendment seems to me to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u264	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u265	Clearly, honourable Member, we do not hear the same thing when we talk about clean and renewable energy. The rapporteur has just told you that for all modes of electricity generation, a carbon balance is made on the overall life cycle. I don't know if there is a nuclear power plant in your constituency – I don't know if you want one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u266	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u267	It's good that you say it, and I hope it will be noted in the transcript: Madam doesn't want any in her constituency, let's be clear! I would like to see Members running for election saying, "I want a nuclear power plant in my constituency, because I don't want wind turbines! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u268	Mr. Aubert!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u269	Mr. Aubert told us there weren't any in the Vaucluse. I'm not sure he'd be elected if he said he wanted it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u270	In his garden!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u271	Plaising aside, Mrs Louwagie, the construction of a nuclear power plant involves the production of concrete, i.e. the emission of one tonne of CO2 per tonne of cement. This is concrete, and all this is in the overall balance sheet of this mode of electricity generation. The production of the casting of a diesel engine is not very clean either! We cannot allow to say, just to shake fears, that every time we build a wind turbine, we kill children away from here to extract rare earths or we're dirtying the planet everywhere else. That's not true! These fears are unfounded! Some have mentioned the extraction of uranium in Niger, but it is controlled. The difference with what happened twenty, thirty or fifty years ago is that we take stock of the life cycle, including the dismantling and recycling of materials. You may not want to have wind turbines in the landscape, as some do not want to see towers in the landscape. According to an analysis by ANSES, there may indeed be a risk of leukemia for children: it is not a small subject. There are a lot of people who are starting to get scared and say we have to take the towers off. We don't take them off like that, because the country's power supply counts! Every time, we go to the end of the transparency of the data on everything. No mode of energy production has a zero impact on the environment. One day, a neighbor came to tell me: "I saw on television that the electric car was polluting more than the diesel car. There were life-cycle analyses, from production to deconstruction. We want to lead the energy transition and present the different solutions, but we don't invent any problems other than those that exist. They are already quite numerous and the equations are already quite difficult to solve! You don't have to pretend that deploying wind turbines is going to "wrong" the planet – you'll put it to me – away from where they are implanted. At some point, we have to get out of this idea, or we won't be able to move forward. We can have the debate that Mr Aubert has launched on comparative costs, on aesthetics, but not on things of this type, which are only the propagation of false news.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u272	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u273	This is good news: the Minister of Ecology announces the establishment of new nuclear power plants. I have found you a member of the Republican Group who will be happy to welcome a new nuclear power plant: the Member of Parliament for Fessenheim.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u274	I'm waiting to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u275	I'll pass on your proposal to him. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] On the other hand, Minister, you're mixing everything. We're talking about clean energy and you're responding to the CO2 life cycle. But CO2 is not a pollution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u276	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u277	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u278	No! We swallow oxygen and release CO2. It contributes to the greenhouse effect and global warming, but it is not pollution. It's not the same as fine particles. Thirdly, this amendment concerns the fact that the production of certain renewable energies requires the exploitation of rare earths. I would remind you that this term refers to 17 elements of the Mendeleyev table diluted over all the earth's bark, which are therefore difficult to exploit, including samarium, allied with cobalt in the manufacture of photovoltaic panels, neodymium and dysprosium, used in the production of certain wind turbines. The extraction and purification techniques of these rare earths are extremely expensive for water and soil. Hydrometallurgical procedures are used with acid baths and release heavy metals, uranium, thorium. Greenpeace denounces this pollution, showing that in some villages in Mongolia radioactivity is thus 63 times higher than normal. So what does this amendment propose? It is not a question of banning all wind turbines, but from the moment some technologies use rare earths, we are obliged to check that at the other end of the planet, we are not developing forms of pollution of water or soil. I'm not saying it's common to all energies. We are also looking for ways to dispense with neodymium or dysprosium in wind turbines. I will not reply to you that there is no recycling of the wind turbine polymer, or that the regulations do not require the removal of all concrete from a wind turbine at the end of the park.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u279	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u280	The arguments of the rapporteur and the minister are different in nature. Mr rapporteur, you are against me that my amendment is satisfied when you, Mr Minister, have tried to demonstrate that no situation was satisfactory. You made a comparison with the use of concrete in the construction of a nuclear site and the impacts on the construction of wind turbines. What we are proposing is to move towards something much cleaner at all levels of manufacturing and production. Given your ambitious goals, I do not understand that you are opposed to such an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u281	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u282	If I'm not mistaken, we can't talk about the life cycle of CO2, but only about the life cycle of a manufactured product. I also invite you to read OPECST's reports on permanent magnets or rare earths. What bothers me in your remarks is that you're targeting wind turbines while the only parts of wind turbines that have rare earths are generators. Conversely, most engines have magnets. I invite you to compare the energy density of a normal motor and a magnet motor: you would understand the choices of our industrialists. We all agree that they come from elements extracted in other countries, but we are in a global context where everyone has to fight global warming. Since we don't have rare earths, let's recycle. In a 500-page report resulting from a six-month mission of which I was co-rapporteur, OPECST refers to the recycling of magnets, but also batteries, which will be tomorrow's resource for countries without these precious materials. This recycling will also reduce the carbon impact of our industries. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] By simply targeting a single mode of production, your amendment ignores industrial reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u283	I shall put to the vote Amendment No 227.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u284	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 8 Against 51
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u285	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 256, 353, 47, 10, 241 and 78, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 256 and 353, as well as Amendments Nos 10 and 241, are identical. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 256.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u286	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u287	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 353.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u288	As soon as the date of 2035 is chosen, this new deadline should be taken as the reference date and a vision of the entire energy mix should be provided. This amendment by Michel Vialay therefore proposes to include, on the basis of data from the national low-carbon strategy – SNBC – in place of the 2030 targets currently set, the objectives of developing the shares of renewable energy in the French energy mix in 2035, an essential step to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u289	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u290	This amendment makes it more likely to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality by 2050 by including intermediate crossing points. It therefore proposes to include, on the basis of SNBC data, the objectives of developing the shares of renewable energies in the French energy mix in 2035.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u291	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u292	This amendment by our colleague Vincent Descoeur takes into account the need to further encourage France to achieve the carbon-neutral objectives it set itself in 2050, and therefore to set a course for all energy targets in 2035. The aim is to propose a real ambition for the local and sustainable biogas sector, whose share of gas consumption in 2035 is expected to be 20%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u293	I call Mrs Laure de La Raudière to support Amendment No. 241.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u294	This amendment, identical to that of Mr Descoeur, was remarkably defended by Mrs Louwagie. I agree with his argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u295	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u296	This amendment by our colleague Jérôme Nury proposes to include in the objectives of the national energy policy the production of biomethane to the tune of 20% of the total gas consumption in France by 2030. The field of agricultural methanization now far exceeds the 10% renewable gas contained in the energy transition law. Thus, agricultural facilities alone could produce these 20% of gas consumed in France in 2030 thanks to the right to injection provided by the law for the balance of commercial relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as EGALIM law. The achievement of this objective would allow the development of a renewable and sustainable gas produced through the use of waste, animal waste and crop by-products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u297	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u298	With regard to the first set of amendments, I am concerned that today we lack visibility in order to define precisely the share of each energy in a mix in 2035, in particular because of the development of renewable energy which is still not yet mature or because of the development of Power-to-gas. The second series proposes that the share of renewable gas in gas consumption in 2035 be 20%. I share your willingness to develop the biogas sector. We have adopted provisions in committee that allow better traceability of biogas, but before setting a target in 2035, it is better to achieve the targets by 2023 at a controlled cost. I would like to let the Government reassure you about the support for biogas in the multi-faceted energy programming, the EPP. It seems to me that the minister is open to the idea of more support for the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u300	I will repeat what I said in committee, because this issue of renewable gas is important. First of all, I repeat that I am very much in favour of the production of renewable gas. A number of agricultural or household waste is indeed a resource that we can exploit in France: it can be transformed into gas through methanisation and this renewable, non-fossil gas, if not negative, is carbon neutral. On the other hand, let's not give the impression that everyone wants it, that everyone applauds every time a methanizer implants next to a farm. This is not your case, Mrs Louwagie, but some Members have asked for something which, I say frankly, would destruct the entire French energy policy: that a mayor could have a veto on the installation of a wind turbine within the framework of the local planning plan – tomorrow, on that of a tower, etc. It will therefore no longer be possible to make power lines, which will stop after two or three communes! The same may be true with methanizers. Many municipalities will not want it and, you know as I do – no doubt you have been elected local – it is enough for a group of inhabitants, not necessarily majority but a little active, to petition the bakery or local butchery. We sometimes sign, including to have peace! I know how it goes, I have a little experience, I'm going to the bakery! I know this perfectly and I want to say it – otherwise the images of Épinal are flourishing: we would pass on terrible products – detailed earlier by Mr.Aubert – that make up the wind turbines to the methanizer which, he would be wonderful and would have only advantages! You know that, and if that's not the case, I'll return it to you: Le Monde published one day a two-page article with the headline "Methanization crisis". It was on the basis of a malfunction in a methanizer, in a country with 500. It is therefore not without drawbacks – Mr Potier pointed out earlier. In addition, there is one subject that no one ever talks about. It's a bit embarrassing, as it has consequences, as they say in my home and surely in your home – the difference, from this point of view, is not very great between Brittany and Normandy:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u301	The price!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u302	...species ringing and tripping. Renewable gas, as it stands, costs four to five times more to produce than imported gas. It's not a small difference! Basically, the megawatt hour is 20 euros for the second, rather 90 euros for the first. A priori, no one intends to pass this cost on to the gas bill, therefore. So there's a subsidy, and it doesn't fall from the sky. I would point out that so far, the carbon tax has been one of the means of financing support for renewable energies. You know what happened to his trajectory: no extra recipes. Therefore, if the expense for methanizers is increased, the subsidy increases. In the context of multi-year energy programming, the Government hopes that the entire renewable gas sector – not only the farmer on his farm, of course, but above all the one who manufactures the machinery, etc. – will be able to do so. – works to reduce costs. We ourselves have made a number of arrangements that already allow a number of them to be reduced – the famous connection costs. Therefore, we could have a target of 10% final renewable gas consumption by the end of the multiannual energy programming in 2028, 2029. This has been discussed since the publication of the document, which is currently in public consultation. The whole industry felt that this was not realistic, that it would not be possible to lower costs in this way. So we have to renegotiate what we are doing. We expect to be able to reach this 10% target soon, perhaps by the end of July, with a little less effort than that requested on costs. Your amendment proposes to increase from roughly 10% to 20% between 2030 and 2035, a doubling in five years – remember that today only 1% of the gas consumed in France is of renewable origin. Increasing to 10% in ten years is already a major effort, including financial one, and should be doubled within five years! I understand this appeal amendment, in a way, to talk about the biogas sector and to affirm an ambition in this area. This is not shocking, and I know that important work has been done by the agricultural and gas sectors to convince as many elected representatives as possible to encourage change in this direction. However, at some point, you have to be realistic! Before we vote on amendments of this kind, which are totally unrealistic, we are working together, all over the territories, on acceptability, on costs, etc., to reach the 10% target by 2028 or 2029, at the end of the multiannual energy programming, so that the objectives of the next programming can be greater! On this basis, which already shows a strong ambition in this area, I propose the withdrawal of these amendments or, failing that, their rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u303	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u304	The comparison between wind turbines and towers that you made this afternoon during the question-and-answer session in the Government is not appropriate: they are between 30 and 60 metres long and 155 metres long, not to mention the height of blades. The question of gas is at least as important as that of electricity. It is also a criticism that we make to you: the latter obsesses you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u305	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u306	A consumption of 442 terawatt hours of gas, by mass, is almost equivalent to that of electricity. Electricity decarbonization has a cost, but the decrease in fossil energy imports is positive for the trade balance. On the understanding that, depending on the years, these imports amount to 50 to 60 billion, we can find ourselves in everything that will be produced nationally. I am surprised in part by the arguments used. I agree with you, this sector is indeed nascent and costs more, etc. But when we talk about electric intermittent energies, the question of cost never arises. It is not said that some objectives should first be achieved before more ambitious ones are set. From 2014 to 2019, no nuclear power plants were closed, but if the beginning of the first level has not been achieved, there is no talk of a shift in objectives. The same is not true for gas: the initial objective has not been achieved, so it is urgent to wait, we are told. Why? In addition, you draw attention to the cost. I would, but if 90 euros a megawatt hour of biogas is expensive, why is it open bar when you renegotiate it at 220 or 250 euros for wind turbines? If we had adopted your approach at the beginning of wind or photovoltaic, we would have remained at microscopic amounts. You say that methanization is faced with a problem of social acceptability: it is true, but only for industrial methanization. We have suddenly moved on to huge methanization plants, which no longer operate in the same way because they use imports. It is no longer the peasants who feed their methanization plant. We are obliged to import the products, sometimes for hundreds of kilometres, which leads to difficulties related to the circulation of heavy goods vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u307	Please respect your time, Mr. Aubert. Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u308	I wanted to thank the Minister of State for this very reassuring news about the development of biogas and the agreement that should be reached in the coming weeks. This will increase the PPE target to 10%, ensuring cost control. As has been said, this is very good news. It was a proposal that we, together with other actors, had put before the Government. I will therefore withdraw Amendment No 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u309	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u310	I would not want my positions on biogas to be distorted, Minister of State. I said there was a good level of methanization, which could be about 10% of total gas consumption – I don't have enough expertise to state the exact figure. I simply observe drifts, which are counterproductive in terms of the effect we are all looking for. Since you seem not to see them, I invite you to look at them more closely and to carry out an expertise; We can take you to the field. Moving to 20% of consumption when we don't control the right processes or the costs would be inappropriate, I agree with you. The members of the Socialist Group have not tabled any amendments to this effect, because we have been alerted, on the ground, to certain abuses. We agree to target a level of 10%, in good agro-ecological conditions, supporting livestock farming. I stress that, in these renewable energy models, there is a lack of impetus not only to reach mature sectors, but also differentiated funding to protect models of modest size, supported by citizens – we will present amendments on this subject – or by local authorities, which will extend to the whole territory. This human-sized, intermediate, renewable energy model would deserve state support. Don't tell me that's not possible. Your painting on fossil fuels, even if it is difficult to read – it requires a good view! – shows us room for manoeuvre in stopping the zero-rating of a number of fossil fuels – I am thinking in particular of the fuel used in the air sector. This would enable us to support the development of renewable energies, which would be very productive. On a constant budget, we can redeploy funds to support good renewable energy in all territories, for the benefit of our fellow citizens and investors who are not just speculators. There is room for manoeuvre. We will defend, in due course, sobriety in areas where we can do so – we will present three amendments on this subject – but also support for good renewable energies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u311	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u312	I would like to welcome the statement made by the Minister of State on behalf of the moving Republic Group. The biogas and methanisation sector was one of the topics under discussion within the framework of the multiannual energy programming. An effort is being made for professionals, thanks to the trajectory leading to the level of 10% of total gas consumption, in the context of the second phase of the EPP, but also by the willingness to negotiate with industry professionals on the price optimisation path. As the Minister of State pointed out, we must also pay attention to the economic balance of the sector. We can't do anything. It is also necessary to look at the price optimization path during the first phase – 2018-2023 – and then the second phase of the EPP – 2023-2028. There are different steps to climb to achieve a 20% or 30% reduction target. This issue has also been linked to spatial planning. We're going to be able to develop methanizers everywhere in France and help our farmers. I agree with what Mr Potier and, in some respects, Mr Aubert have just said: we must consider the positive externalities for farmers, as well as those linked to the decarbonisation and restriction of our fossil energy imports. For France, it's important. It is also necessary to carry out a strategy of human size, by developing intermediate installations, which are not too small – in order to achieve financial balance – without reaching the size of a factory, as is the case in some European countries, such as Germany. The methanizer must always be a related product for the farmer, not its main source of income.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u313	We're saying the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u314	We need to be vigilant about that. Our farmers and industrialists are very attentive to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u315	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to support Amendment No. 810.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u316	It is a more technical than a political amendment, which aims to bring the text into line with the recommendation made by the European Commission to France on 18 June. It indicated that the target of renewable energy consumption should be increased to at least 33%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u318	This is indeed a recommendation of the European Commission, which I am of course in favour of.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u320	As Mrs. Batho said, this is a small adjustment. Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u321	Amendment No 214 by Mrs Florence Lasserre-David is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u322	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u323	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u324	In view of the arguments I put forward earlier, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u325	I call Mrs Sarles to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u326	With this amendment, I propose that the targets for renewable gas should not be expressed solely as a share of final consumption. Indeed, as is well known, gas can be used simultaneously for the production of heat and electricity through cogeneration. The current wording is confusing. I propose a wording that corrects this ambiguity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u327	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u328	Request for withdrawal. Our target for NRIs in gas consumption should not be differentiated according to the use of this renewable gas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u329	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u330	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u331	Mr Matthieu Orphelin has the floor to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u332	This amendment proposes an unquantified objective to demonstrate the need for the development of participatory renewable energies, characterised by the investment of citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u334	Citizens are showing a genuine commitment to conducting renewable energy development projects and benefiting the community. We all have an example in our constituencies of this kind of citizen emulation. However, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, because I find it relatively restrictive. Citizens may want to participate in projects that are not in their place of residence, for example. Companies may also want to self-produce and self-consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u335	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u336	I share the rapporteur's arguments. I would add, as I said in committee, that the Government is already supporting the development of participatory projects and has put in place, in the tenders, a much more effective tool, namely, a bonus to support such projects, as provided for in the 2015 law. I think that the wording you are proposing would bring nothing or even restrict the development of these projects. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u337	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u338	I will withdraw the amendment, but the mechanism to which the Minister of State has just referred comes from the Energy Transition Act 2015. I think it's time for France to go further. Participatory investment in renewable energy is lagging far behind. This is an important subject for our country, and much stronger action should be taken on this lever.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u339	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 159, 617, 160 and 618, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 159 and 617 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 160 and 618. Amendments Nos 159 and 160 can be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u340	I have had the honour and the opportunity to work on these amendments with people in my constituency. As the rapporteur has said, we have citizens in our constituencies who decide to take charge of themselves and to set up such initiatives. I am thinking in particular of the Marie-Thérèse hydroelectric power station in Velaux, which is an example to follow. The aim of Amendment No 159 is to introduce a clear objective into energy policy in order to enable the development of citizens' initiatives. Amendment No 160 is a fallback amendment which aims not to impose an objective, but to formulate clear incentives in our energy policy in order to encourage citizens' initiatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u341	I have before me two amendments, Nos 617 and 618, which can be presented together. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u342	With Jean-Marc Zulesi, elected from a constituency almost close to mine, we share a vision very close to territorial dynamics. On behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I believe that citizens' ownership of energy issues is paramount. However, a national dynamic must be created and included in the text in order to do so. This is the subject of these two amendments. Amendment No 617 aims to state that "the share of renewable energy produced by renewable energy communities [...] represents at least 5% of renewable energy consumption in 2030. It recognizes the vital importance of the production of renewable energy shared by citizens in their territory. Perhaps the figure of 5% is too restrictive a target, but I think it is important to state this objective, which is a symbol.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u343	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u344	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice. It does not seem useful to me to set an objective in the law for an object whose contours are not yet defined. I thank you, Mr Zulesi, for working with me at length on the amendment to the additional article after Article 6, which is intended to define renewable energy communities, the details of which will have to be laid down in a decree. So I think it's wise to wait a little bit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u345	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u346	In view of the arguments I have put forward earlier, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u347	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u348	I withdraw my amendments, but we will of course remain vigilant with regard to the proposals to be made, particularly in the decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u349	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u350	I will not make these amendments a casus belli, and I will also withdraw them. However, I regret your position. I would have liked a more assertive commitment, showing confidence in the territories, in the citizens. I would have liked them to be seen as actors offering solutions in the field of renewable energies rooted in the territories, which are non-relocable, which create local wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u351	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 124 and 451. I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u352	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u353	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 451.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u354	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u356	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u357	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u358	The same is true, although we are obviously in favour of crowdfunding. In fact, one third of the projects awarded the ministry's invitations to tender in 2019 used financing or participatory investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u359	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor in support of Amendment No 251.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u360	The EPP proposes that 31% of the electricity produced by renewables comes from the Earth's wind energy by 2028, while the current rate is 25%. My amendment aims to ensure that the rate of ground wind energy generation from renewable energy sources is 25% by 2035. In view of the difficulties of social acceptance of the Earth's wind energy, my idea is to strengthen other renewable energies after 2028, such as floating offshore wind and photovoltaics, much better accepted by our fellow citizens. Terrestrial wind has negative externalities: devaluation of houses located near wind fields, noise nuisances and obstructions to landscapes. We could agree, ladies and gentlemen, to reassure our fellow citizens that the earth's wind will not develop excessively, especially in the departments already saturated with wind turbines, where rejection is beginning to be felt. An increase in settlements up to 2028 could succeed a decline, with replacement by other types of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u361	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u362	I am opposed to reducing our wind energy targets. The terrestrial wind industry will occupy an important place in the electric mix by 2050. Nevertheless, I agree with you that terrestrial wind projects must be socially accepted. In this respect, cleavage is expressed in all our constituencies; in some villages where half of the population supports a land wind project when the other half opposes it. I trust consultation, consultation and discussion to foster this type of project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u363	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u364	On the form, I am not very in favour of setting targets for 2035,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u365	Just like nuclear power!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u366	... while multi-annual energy programming covers the next ten years, from 2019 to 2029. I do not see why we should set rigid targets now. My opinion is therefore unfavorable. On the substance, I have already developed my arguments in committee, or in open session since the beginning of our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u367	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u368	The amendment proposed by our colleague Laure de La Raudière has the advantage of opening a debate on terrestrial wind. You are planning an expansion of this industry, while we know its low social acceptability. In addition, we have already spent EUR 9 billion and committed some EUR 20 billion for the future; We must add the money from the EPP: this is a lot for an intermittent industry, whose load factor is less than at sea. We do not have any industries behind us, and we are assailed by collectives who consider that we have gradually disarmed in legal matters. Opponents complain about not being consulted, and promoters – only some of them, thank God! – sometimes use cowboy methods. In some territories, there is a local consensus to develop the Earth's wind energy: let us be pragmatic and set slightly less ambitious goals! Let's decide on a moratorium when there is no local consensus! If the presidents of the region and the department, all the mayors, the presidents of intercommunities and thousands of petitioners oppose a project, stubbornly pursuing it is a bad policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u369	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u370	I support this amendment by our colleague Laure de La Raudière and I will vote for its adoption. Minister of State, you must hear the anger that is rising in some territories in the face of the installation of wind turbines. Yes, I'm talking about anger! A true ras-le-bol and a rejection are expressed today: not to hear this anger that is rumbling helps to accentuate the territorial divide in our country, which you cannot ignore. Alternative solutions must be found, because the French must be heard. Everyone supports the energy transition, but we need to find the processes that take the people's acceptability. You cannot ignore the ras-le-bol which is spreading in many regions and which Members of this House on all benches see. Hear and listen, Minister of State, it's very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u371	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u372	Mr rapporteur, you say that there will be a significant share of wind energy in energy programming by 2050. I'm not saying otherwise, but we could replace terrestrial wind with floating offshore wind. We master the technology of floating offshore wind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u373	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u374	This technology is French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u375	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u376	We have an interest in promoting it, because it will create jobs and probably become an export sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u377	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u378	I am not saying that terrestrial wind will not represent a significant part of the electrical mix, but by deploying it in some departments, a rejection manifests itself. We tell you on every bench, whether we are elected from the Somme, from the Eure-et-Loir or from other departments. In these places saturation has wiped out the acceptance of the Earth's wind. Maybe there are very few in your department and maybe where there are none, we don't realize what we're living. We are firing the alarm bell, not because we are opposed to the Earth's wind, but because it is no longer possible to plan. During the previous quinquennium, the wind development zones – ZDE – were abolished, while they allowed the state, through the prefectures, to establish wind turbine installation zones. We have almost nothing left to choose where we want and where you want to install wind turbines. You suffer the desire of some wind turbine promoters to settle where they wish; They put four or five wind turbines in one place, still below the invitations to tender, in order to establish themselves all over the territory. This is a measure of common sense, designed to make us able to remove from the parks, at the time of repowering, some masts that are thought to be poorly placed. It's really a measure of common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u379	The next speaker is the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u380	First of all, Mrs de La Raudière, your amendment does not solve any of the problems you have just mentioned for the next five or ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u381	Yes, the one for repowering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u382	You should have told the microphone that you were against repowering, as you say in good French, namely the replacement of existing wind turbines with more efficient machines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u383	Not for all the wind turbines!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u384	Your wish is different from that of Mrs Louwagie, who, if I have understood correctly, would like no new wind turbines to be installed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u385	You caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u386	These are serious things, Madame de La Raudière: you are serious and so am I.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u387	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u388	Only the Minister of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u389	It's better that way, otherwise we won't get there. Mrs Louwagie, I hear what you say about the existence of localized oppositions to the Earth's wind. There is also some against wind at sea, unfortunately. The Council of State even recognized that an association of coastal inhabitants had the right to contest a project of wind turbines at sea, even though they were not bordering it, since they were located more than 10 kilometres from the coast. Yet it was on the basis of the absence of residents that we decided – I was already a Member – to develop wind at sea. It will be necessary to consider how we can adapt the legislation following this decision of the Council of State. First of all, there are a lot of rules in France: if you draw the map of potential wind turbines, you will see that it is impossible to install them in entire areas of the country. These rules are strictly observed. Moreover, wind projects are subject to systematic litigation. I am all the more aware of the anger that you are talking about because I am the subject of a unleashing of anti-windian groups, who are lobbying intensively throughout France and who make an appeal as soon as they are aware of a project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u390	I wasn't talking about the groups, I was talking about the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u391	I am ready to work on the elements to enhance the acceptability of renewable energies in general and of terrestrial wind in particular. But if we oppose the development of wind turbines, we seek to introduce many new rules. Yes, the ZDEs were removed because they led to entire departments being virgins of wind turbines. In my region, departments refused to set up wind turbines: the elected officials blocked the approval of the wind development zone with the prefect, so that nothing progressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u392	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u393	That is why rules have been laid down. In some regions, such as the large southwestern quarter of France, there are very few terrestrial wind turbines. Wind turbines must be established in these regions in order to distribute their presence in a balanced way: terrestrial wind turbines cannot be concentrated in the northern part of the country, particularly in the Hauts-de-France region. That must be clear. In addition, we will develop wind energy at sea. If offshore wind turbines prove to be more powerful, as appears to be the case with a 12-megawatt model, we will be able to reduce the deployment of terrestrial wind turbines. Madame de La Raudière, I strongly advocate for floating wind turbines, the sector of which needs to be developed, but we are currently at the demonstrator stage and not at all at that of electricity generation. We're going to deploy experimental floating wind fields. We must defend reasonable positions, hence my opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u394	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-26-O1291.u395	Next meeting, this morning, at 9:30 a.m.: Reading the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the right to terminate health-related supplementary contracts free of charge; Further discussion of the draft law on energy and climate. The meeting is adjourned.
