ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u1	The next item is the debate, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, on the proposal for a law by Mr Aurélien Pradié and several of his colleagues to act against domestic violence (No. 2201, 2283).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u2	I call Mr Aurélien Pradié, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u3	An excellent bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u4	One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-nine, thirty-three, thirty-two, thirty-three, thirty-four, thirty-five, thirty-six, thirty-seven, thirty-eight, thirty-nine, forty-two, forty-three, forty-four, forty-five, forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, forty-nine, fifty-five, fifty-three, fifty-five, fifty-eight, thirty-eight, thirty-eight, forty-one, forty-two, forty-five, forty-seven, forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, forty-nine, forty-nine, fifty-two, fifty-nine, fifty-eight, fifty-eight, fifty-eight, fifty-eight, seventy-nine, seventy-seven, seventy-three, seventy-three, seventy-three, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven, seventy-seven, seventy-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-seven, fifty-self- I know how cold this count can be, but it must have resonated here, in this assembly, as it has been resonating for too long in our country. He must keep us from getting used to it. Counting until the one hundred and seventeenth dead is a reminder of our absolute urgency. One hundred and seventeen. This black figure must obsess us. One hundred and seventeen. He must urge us to do more, faster. We know the weaknesses, the flaws, the gaps. Can we do more? Yes! In Spain, where two major laws were passed, in 2005 and 2009, the number of murders of women increased from 71 in 2003 to 44 in 2019; It is therefore possible to act. But without the means, there are no real actions. Last year, France spent EUR 79 million on combating such violence. Spain spends 200 million a year, 1 billion over five years. We're a long way from that. This reality, we must face it, not to be controversial, but to be fully aware of our shortcomings and not to pretend. Today, we are considering a bill. Tomorrow we will vote on a budget: we will have to find the same political will. To act, we must also be able to bring us together, to unite our forces and to forget the political tactics. I am not a member of the majority and I am certainly not the most consensual member of the opposition. This text does not come from the Government or the majority; It was placed on the agenda of our assembly by the Republican Group. But all this doesn't matter, because we believe in the great causes, those causes which, because they are beyond us, must bring us together. One hundred and seventeen women died in 2019 under the blows of their companion; We have one hundred and seventeen essential reasons to move beyond our differences to act together. I welcome the responsible attitude that now surrounds the text on all the benches of our Assembly. This law can be a major step forward. In France, in 2019, it takes an average of a month and a half to protect a woman. This period is that of protection orders; It is unacceptable. There can be no justification that it takes the Republic more than a month to protect a woman whose life is in danger. Our proposal is therefore clear, it does not hesitate. We set the maximum time limit for issuing an order at six days, without filing a complaint. The ordinance must become what it is not yet: a real shield for a woman at risk. To strengthen the system, we need to make sure that the judge uses all the possibilities of protection that the law offers – which is not the case today. The gaps, the holes in the racket are considerable: in one in five cases, the judge does not rule on the restriction of the right of accommodation for children; in one in two cases, it does not address the essential issue of housing; And in 85% of cases, nothing is said about carrying a weapon. The current situation is not satisfactory. The judge must rule. If the law remains unclear, it will remain weak; So we need to clarify it. Strengthening the protection order also means creating a ban on the appearance of perpetrators of violence. They must be prevented from watching at the foot of the building. From now on, some entire places will be forbidden to them, even beyond physical contact alone. I'm going to the anti-approximate bracelet, the BAR. On this subject, our country has been very hesitant, too hesitant: two experimental laws, one in 2010, one in 2017; Since then, no implementation. Nothing. Our proposal allows for the immediate generalization of the bracelet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u6	We have to act now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u7	It revolutionizes our right by allowing the strap to be placed from the protection order, in a preventive setting. Thus, for the most serious situations, the family judge may decide to set up the system within six days. Because this is a woman's life, we must not hesitate. In the civil context, the consent of the perpetrator of the violence will be necessary, but let us be clear: the bracelet cannot be a kind option, left to the will of the perpetrator of the violence. Therefore, once the violent person refuses to wear the bracelet, the bill provides for the immediate transmission of the case to the public prosecutor, who, in a criminal context, may impose it or decide to detain him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u8	Very good measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u9	Protecting the victims also means facilitating access to the dangerous telephone. This device works well, but, as we know, too many phones still sleep in the closets today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u10	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u11	Our bill makes it clear that this system is accessible by all means and in all situations. Finally, we must act on the essential issue of housing. For the victims and their children, that's all but a secondary subject. If fear is to change sides, insecurity too must shift from victims to perpetrators of violence. It is not for women to leave the house, but for violent companions to leave.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u12	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u13	Our bill makes the retention of the victim in the home and the removal of the violent the rule. If the judge so decides, the perpetrator of the violence will continue to bear the financial burden of housing. Today, it is the women who suffer the unpaid rents, the prosecution of bailiffs, the cases of overindebtedness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u14	It's not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u15	Tomorrow it is the violent companions who will experience this ordeal. When women voluntarily wish to leave their homes, we must also accompany them. That is the sense of experimentation that we propose in the law. It is necessary to imagine dedicated tools to give them quick access to housing, to cover their first rents, their guarantee deposits, their sureties. It's a strong demand from field actors and women, so let's not wait any longer; let's move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge ahead of us this morning and this afternoon is immense. This bill does not regulate everything, but it paves the way for what the country expects from us...:
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u16	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u17	[[Applause on all benches]] ...from words to deeds, from statements to action. In a few moments, we will debate and then vote. If only one of us hesitates, overly cautious about the measures to be taken, I invite him to recall a single figure: one hundred and seventeen. One hundred and seventeen women who will bring us back to the vital urgency of the situation. One hundred and seventeen women who will push us not to tremble in our decisions. One hundred and seventeen women who remind us that today the Republic must live up to the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u18	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u19	It is an alarming and painful subject that brings us together today around the bill tabled by Mr Pradie: that of violence within the couple. As you recalled in the count that you have been in front of us, rapporteur, more than one hundred and fifteen women have died under the blows of their spouses since the beginning of 2019. It is a reality that is unbearable to all of us. We must stop this dramatic spiral, it is an injunction made to everyone. Whatever place we occupy in society, we must act to put an end to these tragedies. It was in this spirit that the Prime Minister opened the Grenelle des violences conjugales on September 3rd; It is in the same spirit that we must address the bill, with a view to bringing about operational solutions as soon as possible to put an end to this scourge. The objectives of the bill are consistent with the action taken by the Government and my Ministry for several months. The text will be very useful in strengthening this action. In the fight against domestic violence, justice must take its full place. To this end, for several months now, I have been pursuing a proactive policy with a very structured action plan. My circular of 9 May thus reminded prosecutors of the priority of the fight against domestic violence, encouraging them to make full use of the entire legislative arsenal, as well as all existing mechanisms. I would like to take a moment to highlight the main axes. I wish to actively develop the protection order. It is a very effective mechanism, but – as you have pointed out, rapporteur – too little pronounced and too rarely requested. A very comprehensive guide explaining this measure was produced by the Chancellery and widely disseminated. The bill we are debating will contribute to this action by further strengthening the protection of the victim. [[Mrs Cécile Untermaier and Sophie Auconie applaud]] I also wish to put in place effective anti-approach bracelets for perpetrators of domestic violence, as a penalty, but also before any criminal judgement, in the context of judicial review, or without any complaint, in the civil context of a procedure of protection order. This measure, announced by the Prime Minister at the opening of the Grenelle, is the subject of broad consensus. I had begun work with several parliamentarians – notably Guillaume Vuilletet, Guillaume Gouffier-Cha and Fiona Lazaar – whose long-standing and constant involvement on this issue I would like to acknowledge. The La République en marche group has tabled a bill that reflects this work. The amendments adopted by the Committee on Laws are the result of this, so that this text is included in the one we are considering today. This joint work, which goes beyond the dividing lines, as shown by the initiative which Mr Pradie took on his side,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u20	Very happy initiative!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u21	...is the sign that this policy must come together. The BAR will not, however, put an end to the serious danger telephones, the TGDs, which remain a useful device for women at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u22	It's not used enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u23	This bill is also part of this momentum by providing that these telephones may be allocated, even before a ban on contacting is imposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u25	Very good measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u26	Because the phenomena of violence within couples are very specific, because certain psychological mechanisms such as grip have only been clearly identified and described in recent years, I also wanted to strengthen the provision of training in this field. Important work has been done in this direction by the National School of the Judiciary. New training is available not only for magistrates but also for staff in the prison administration, the judicial protection of young people, as well as for judicial police officers, lawyers and associations. These trainings will be deployed throughout the national territory as of this month. The aim is for all judges to be fully trained and made aware of the specific treatment of this crime. Thus, all judges who have to change positions will have to take a training module on domestic violence – and I stress that this training will be mandatory. I also hoped that all cases of femicide committed between 2014 and 2016 and finally tried could be examined by the General Inspectorate of Justice. The path of the perpetrators and the victims will be analysed, the possible flaws in the processing of the detected cases and the recommendations formulated, with a view to improving the treatment of these intolerable facts. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] Beyond all the legislative provisions, I am infinitely convinced that it is our practices that need to evolve so that there is no interstitial relationship between the work of each of the actors. What I think is essential is to learn how to work better together. The work of the services must be defragmented. Too often, especially in large or medium courts, judges, whether family judges or children's judges, and prosecutors fail to act symbiosis on these issues. This is what field actors are trying to remedy in many jurisdictions: gendarmes or police officers, magistrates, doctors, associations, all develop protocols for the treatment and monitoring of these phenomena of violence. An experiment has thus been launched within the Créteil High Court in order to develop a model scheme for the judicial treatment of domestic violence, integrating the urgency of the responses as well as the consideration of their specificity. Two other smaller courts, those of Rouen and Angoulême, will also become pilot in this area, so that the system chosen can be adapted to all courts. The Grenelle against domestic violence has already had this merit of provoking a form of momentum on the part of the courts and the Ministry of Justice, in the following days, has been contacted spontaneously for the testing of these channels of emergency or other types of protocol to combat domestic violence. The magistrates, and that is happy, are mobilizing for this cause. It is in this same spirit that I have set up a working group within the Ministry of Justice, bringing together all the actors involved in this fight. This group, led by the senior official for gender equality in the Ministry of Justice, will, if necessary, make new proposals, by 29 October 2019, in accordance with the timetable set by the Prime Minister in the framework of the Grenelle, after which he will follow the progress of the announced actions. I will be very attentive to the improvements that could result. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore in this context that the bill that we are going to consider seems to me essential. I would like to stress at the outset that, with the amendments adopted in the Committee on Laws, the proposal that we have to discuss has the full support of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u28	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] It is indeed part of government policy, it reflects the voluntarism that we all have here, and it provides the legislative developments that we need. I will briefly return to the provisions of the proposed law, in civil and criminal matters. As the rapporteur has pointed out, the first aim of the text is to extend the use of the protection order to civil matters. The use of this system has been steadily increasing since its creation: more than 3000 protection orders have been issued since 2016. This positive development – although much less marked than in Spain – is, however, not sufficient. This finding must be extended by specific provisions to ensure its full effectiveness. The proposed law is therefore a useful complement to the existing system by encouraging not only the parties but also the lawyers who assist them to seek the measures provided for in the legislation. It reinforces the effectiveness of the protection order by specifying the action of the family judge. Therefore, the reminder of the principle that the issuance of a protection order is not subject to a prior complaint has an educational virtue. The text also reinforces the treatment of urgency, as the rapporteur has just pointed out. The Law Committee voted in favour of the amendment proposed by the rapporteur and supported by the LaREM Group to introduce "a maximum period of six days from the date of the hearing" for the family judge to issue his decision. I will have the opportunity to remind you that it is indeed necessary to shorten the time limits for issuing protection orders. But it is equally necessary to respect the adversarial principle and the specific nature of civil proceedings, which are based on principles different from those of criminal proceedings. The need for victim protection must be addressed while allowing the respondent to make its case. The drafting proposed by the Committee on Laws sets out a path, accompanied by a goal of speed that we all share. Perhaps it will still be useful to refine this system to make it fully operational. This is a work we have undertaken with the rapporteur as well as with Guillaume Vuilletet. I am not sure that we have fully achieved a legally perfect arrangement. But we have made progress, and the shuttle will allow us, I am sure, to further improve the text. With regard to the content of the protection order, the Commission's text tends to require the civil judge to rule on each of the measures set out in section 515-11 of the Civil Code. Again, I believe that this mechanism can be clarified in order to maintain the judge's ability to rule in the light of the evidence presented in the case file by the parties. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. The text also seeks to strengthen the protection of the victim – the rapporteur rightly insisted on it – by allowing the judge to allocate the couple's housing to him if he so requests, since the costs of this housing can be borne by the perpetrator. These developments make it possible to go further than the law in force, and that is happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u30	Adjustment proposals will be made as an amendment will be tabled to prohibit the acquisition and possession of weapons for any person against whom a protection order has been issued. Finally, and this is a sensitive point of this bill, the family judge may order the wearing of an anti-approximation bracelet under the protection order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u31	It's essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u32	The Government has worked with the rapporteur to secure this orderly arrangement in a civilian setting. The committee thus voted on the amendment tabled by both the LaREM Group and the Government, providing for the agreement of the defendant to avoid any constitutional risk; It is clear that the civil judge does not have the same coercive powers as the criminal judge. In the absence of agreement, the case will be transferred to the public prosecutor, who may initiate criminal proceedings. The criminal provisions of the bill, for their part, enjoy the full agreement of the Government. These provisions have two purposes: first, to establish in criminal proceedings an electronic anti-approximation protection system similar to that which exists in Spain; Secondly, to improve the current system of the serious danger telephone, in particular by allowing its implementation without waiting for a judicial decision prohibiting contact. The anti-approach bracelet meets the commitments made by the Government in the Grenelle against domestic violence. This mechanism, I believe, has a general consensus. The rapporteur recalled that it had already been considered twice by the legislator, in 2010 and 2017, but only on an experimental basis and in the context of the mobile electronic house arrest – ARSEM – or the mobile electronic supervision – PSEM. However, these experiments have never been completed, in particular because of too narrow a legal framework – it was necessary to have been condemned – and because of cumbersome and complex procedures. According to his original proposal, the rapporteur once again envisaged that the use of the anti-approximation bracelet would apply in the context of ARSEM or the PSEM, under conditions which were certainly simplified. However, in the Committee on Laws, amendments defended by Guillaume Vuilletet on behalf of the LaREM Group and by the Government have been adopted, with the agreement of the rapporteur, which I thank, in order to allow the use of the anti-approximation bracelet in the context of judicial review and probation, which will become the probationary stay in March 2020, under the law of reform for justice. This reform, also provided for in the proposal for a law on the protection of victims of violence committed within the couple or the family by an electronic anti-approximation device, tabled at the beginning of September by Mr Vuilletet, seems preferable to me because the installation of an anti-approximation bracelet can thus be decided much more easily, for three reasons. First, this solution will allow the judges to order the laying of a bracelet in present-day matters, before any conviction of the perpetrator of the violence, as soon as the prosecution is initiated against him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u34	This will be the case, for example, when judicial information is provided or a report is sent to the correctional court. This is a major step forward. Second, this solution may also be ordered by the judges at the time of the conviction, if they pronounce a probationary stay or a detention at home under electronic supervision. Finally, it may be imposed after the sentence has been handed down, in the post-sentence phase of the sentence, in the context of semi-release, parole or conditional release under duress. I am particularly committed to ensuring that these very positive measures are operational as soon as possible. My services are already working on enforcement regulations, so that the law can be applied as quickly as possible. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that it is with a strong will to make progress towards the eradication of this scourge that we have worked with your rapporteur and with the Members involved in this fight. If, unfortunately, zero risk does not exist, the commitment of the Government, in particular that of the Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men, Marlène Schiappa,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u35	She's not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u36	... and that of my own ministry, is absolute and determined. We will continue, with the help of all, the law enforcement agencies, the judiciary, as well as lawyers, associations and civil society as a whole, to fight this scourge, which, by killing women every day, affects society as a whole. This bill fully contributes to this objective. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the MODEM, UDI-Agir, LT, LR, SOC and GDR groups]] I am very pleased that the parliamentary dialogue has been constructive and that the objective pursued by the Government has been welcomed by you. The text, as adopted by the Law Committee on 2 October and defended by Aurélien Pradié, will certainly be enriched by today's debates. I am confident that the resulting law will contribute to better protection of victims of violence within couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u37	In the general debate, Mr. Stéphane Viry spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u38	We are gathered on the benches of the National Assembly, in the diversity of our political formations, to stand together on a subject that cannot be tainted by partisan differences, thanks to a bill of which Mr Aurélien Pradié is the first signatory, placed on the agenda on the initiative of the Republicans Group. Today, the time is not for discord, but for concord. Today, the urgency and seriousness of the situation force us to transcend the sensitivities that often divide us. As long as it is not possible, our duty as parliamentarians is not fulfilled. I am, of course, talking about homicides and, more generally, violence against women, whether physical, psychological or economic. I listened to your speech, Madam Minister, and noted the Government's agreement. I welcome the clarity of your position on this bill, which will obviously be an important piece of the Grenelle against domestic violence. All of you know just as well as I do the situation of many women, victims of domestic violence, victims of murder. We must collectively find solutions to put an end to this scourge. I tell you with firmness and determination: it is urgent to act. The urgency translates into imperatives for all elected officials, especially for the legislator. The urgency obliges us to act now, not within uncertain and random deadlines, at the same time as multiple postponements. It is no longer enough to speak; We need to deliberate and vote. It is only by acting today in our House that our responses will have an impact on the number of women victims of violence. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the face of violence against women perpetrated by spouses or ex-spouses – which is unbearable – our legal arsenal is only inadequately protective. Because it does not manage to contain this phenomenon, it is imperative to move forward. It is time to raise your head and put an end to this scourge. This defeat, you said, minister, ravages our country, it shames it and it dissolutes our daily lives. Fear must change sides, and finally women who are victims of domestic violence must find an echo to their fears and an answer to put an end to everything they suffer. We must be the voice of these women. We must be the voices of those who do not have one, those who do not, those who are scared, beaten, humiliated, overwhelmed by beatings and psychic violence. Beyond the differences of our political families, even beyond the fighting that drives our debates and political pluralism, if a subject is to bring us together – and we are about to do so – it is indeed the absolute fight against violence against women. Here, more parties, more political houses, more opposition, because no one can remain marble in the face of these tragedies. That is the subject of the two bills before us today. And even if there was only one woman victim, I would express myself with the same firmness and indignation! To act, said Paul Ricœur, is to take a break from destiny. Let us put an end to the tragedy of the fate that has become almost inevitable for our compatriots who are plagued by suffering and distress! To that end, we must now vote for concise, precise and concrete measures. Let me mention a few of them. The protection order will have to be harmonized across our territory, regardless of whether the victim filed a complaint or not. Time limits for adjudication will be greatly shortened, as they will increase to 144 hours from the time of referral to the judge. This protection order will give rise to the information of the public prosecutor in a systematic manner. The device of the electronic bracelet will be considerably expanded, which will allow the victim to be better protected. Persons convicted of a crime or offence against their spouse will no longer be eligible for reduction of sentence if they refuse to undergo treatment during their incarceration. The victim will be able to keep his or her home if he or she so wishes. In the opposite case, it will have the opportunity to rely on dedicated organizations, which will take over the rental guarantee and the first months of rents. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, SOC and GDR groups]] Mr rapporteur, we no longer want to count our dead! We can no longer accept the continuation of the macabre and edifying count by which you introduced your remarks. Ladies and gentlemen, we no longer have a choice. Let's do it! And because the law must protect the weakest, let us pass today a bill that constitutes a piece of the Grenelle against domestic violence, violence against which we are all mobilized!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u39	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u40	I am both moved and proud to speak today on behalf of the Democratic and Related Movement on a subject as sensitive and dramatic as the fight against domestic violence. I have only been a Member of Parliament since 2017, but my engagement with women dates back to the earliest age of my militant period. It is therefore with the weight of a few years of struggle on my shoulders that I take the floor before you, but also with the conviction that finally the national representation and the Government, with the support of the President of the Republic, are in a position to bring concrete solutions to the expression of desperation that has so far remained unchanged. Of course, since the beginning of the legislature, we have dealt with the issue of domestic violence in a cross-cutting way, but we still need to strengthen our legal arsenal. On 3 September, at the launch of the Grenelle against domestic violence, the Prime Minister announced several emergency measures. The MODEM and related groups consider that the draft law presented today by our colleague Aurélien Pradié is already a good opportunity to give concrete expression to a number of them. I am thinking in particular of the electronic bracelet anti-approximation. At this stage, allow me to pay tribute and a friendly thought – I even want to call it affectionate – to Yvette Roudy, Prime Minister of Women's Rights, appointed to the government led by Pierre Mauroy during the first septennium of François Mitterrand. How can we deal with this matter, at this moment, without thinking about it? At the time, by his side, I measured how difficult it was to move the lines. We owe him a lot. [[Sophie Auconie applauds]] I think, for example, of the first precarious plans, which have favoured the creation of recognized secular associations, such as the Women's Association in Pau – I hope you will not mind me talking about my home. These associations have cleared the ground, and I salute all volunteers and anonymous professionals whose commitment is remarkable. The intervention of the associations shows how important the meshing of the territory is if one wants proximity to the action. It is not enough to make a decision in Paris. I also stress the role of local authorities, the importance of collaboration with the courts, particularly through local security contracts. In Pau, we have long been able to offer social assistance services in police stations or gendarmerie brigades, in partnership with the Pyrenean Association for Victim Assistance and Mediation (APAVIM). We have also made progress, together with social donors, in putting women out of danger and providing lasting answers through slippery leases. This ill-known mechanism accompanies the victim in his difficult journey to a self-contained dwelling. In this regard, I had tabled an amendment asking the Government to evaluate the practice of sliding leases for victims of domestic violence, but we will not have the opportunity to discuss them, as it was declared inadmissible. That is a shame, because this device often represents a solution. However, perhaps we will have an opportunity to address this issue in our discussions. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for shameful silence is over. Here comes the time for action, an effective and just action, ruthless for the culprits, imprinted with humanity for the victims. The bill makes it possible to take a step forward. The strengthening of the protection order and of the powers of the family judge will give the actors of the field, associations and lawyers, and the relatives of the victims, a tool more adapted to the real needs. Let us also think about what happens on the ground in the event of violence! While the victim is supposed to retain the enjoyment of the home, in fact, this is not often the case. Is it fair that the abused woman finds herself in emergency accommodation while Monsieur keeps the accommodation? No. The spirit of the law does not say that. Unfortunately, we are here for unjustifiable reasons. So let's find a way not to reverse the roles. We simply need, but it is fundamental, to restore confidence in the protective values of our institutions. With the law as a standard, it is a matter of mobilizing everywhere, at all levels. Everyone has a role to play if we do not want to read in the press that, in our country, every year, about 100 women are killed under the blows of their spouses. The high quality of the debate in the Law Commission has shown that there is a way when all wills stand. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM and UDI-Agir groups. – Mr. Little applause also]] In conclusion, I would like to personally thank Aurélien Pradié. Even if, I admit, I am a little sorry that I did not submit this text before it! I hope that the fight against domestic violence, for women's rights and for equality between men and women can always bring us together in a renewed momentum of progress and justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u41	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u42	The Grenelle against domestic violence, organized by the Government on 3 September 2019, was an additional means of raising society's awareness of the problem of domestic violence, unheard of since, in 2018, 148 people died under the blows of their partner or ex-life partner, 121 women and 28 men. The link must be made between such violence and the issue of equality between women and men. As we know, it is the mindsets that must now evolve, a difficult task that requires communication and a functional organization – as you said, Madam Minister – so that all actors can apply the texts that we have voted for. The bill we are debating provides, in a coherent manner, the legal tools necessary to combat violence against women. I sincerely thank the rapporteur, Mr Aurélien Pradié, for the quality of this work. Without calling it into question, I want to repeat what I said in committee: there were many of us on the ground hoping for a comprehensive bill on the subject, which would have questioned the police, the gendarmerie, social services, local authorities, the training of officers and the judicial organization, in particular the division of powers between the family judge, the juvenile judge and the judge of freedoms and detention. Everyone must act not only in their stratum, but also in a vast set oriented towards an objective. The legislator must also deal with the scope of the organisation and the links between the actors to ensure the operational nature of the arrangements it provides for. A large law is expected to provide financial guarantees, because the State and the judiciary are deprived of any means by which they can propel the network work that serves this policy on the ground. The 3919 telephone hotline, which I welcome, could very usefully be opened 24 hours a day, and the legal costs incurred in connection with a complaint or protection order on this subject should no doubt be put forward by the State. As you said, Mr rapporteur, the finance law for 2020 can be the vehicle for this ambition. The draft law is based on the effective policy set up by neighbouring countries such as Spain, which, by strengthening its legislative and budgetary resources, has managed to protect 30,000 women, whereas in this case they are only 3000 in France. Spain has also significantly reduced the number of victims of domestic violence. Mr rapporteur, you have placed the protection order at the heart of the scheme and have proposed, logically and appropriately, in the case of an interim procedure, that the time limit within which the order may be made should be reduced to six days. You propose that the judge examine in this context all the points that contribute to the real protection of the victim. These are essential measures that we will support. The order is the civil remedy that allows the victim to go to the family judge, with evidence without necessarily having filed a complaint before. In my department, for the past ten years, protective orders have relied on the fingers of the hand. This device is out of date. The magistrates tell me that it is through the filing of a complaint that victims must be heard and assisted in their actions. The civil route must therefore be revisited. The proposed legislation will help strengthen the relevance of the protection order. On the ground, associations hosting women victims of violence demand that this mechanism be finally known to all, which may make it a deterrent. They also call for greater effectiveness and for nothing to be left to weaken the victim. As such, the introduction of the anti-approximation electronic bracelet in the list of measures available to the family court is a major step towards the credibility of the protection order. Its generalization in criminal proceedings, both at the stage of immediate appearance and judicial review as well as at the stage of conviction for domestic violence, is expected by almost all actors facing these situations, both serious and complex. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LR group]] We will discuss this text in a spirit of responsibility, knowing that the victims and the actors who support it need simple, clear and effective rules. The proposed measures meet this requirement. Our group will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u43	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u44	Like my colleague Mrs Poueyto, I would have liked the author of this text, dear Aurélien Pradié.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u45	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u46	I am very pleased to see how much consensus it has and I welcome the constructive spirit with which it is being discussed on all of our benches. You all know my fight for women's rights. This fight is not in vain, since, as we all see, things are evolving in our society. Unfortunately, not all battles have been won and the number of women abused and killed by their spouses is still far too high in our country. The purpose of this bill is to take better action against domestic violence. I therefore welcome his initiative. We have improved the text in committee in debates that have shown how much each of us feels concerned about the fight against this violence. I would therefore like to welcome the consensual atmosphere in which we have debated, but also your spirit of openness, Madam Minister, and the very generous way in which you have received this text. It introduces new tools. That is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group will obviously give it its full support. Together with my colleagues Patricia Lemoine, Philippe Dunoyer and Christophe Naegelen, we will nevertheless introduce amendments to improve the content of the amendments. We believe that the drafting of several reports would allow us to deepen our knowledge of such violence, of how it is treated and, above all, to act to contain it. Parliament needs to be better informed about the training available for staff dealing with them. It also needs to examine more closely the modalities for launching awareness-raising campaigns. Our demands, which combine training and support, show how the fight against domestic violence requires not only repression, but also prevention and education. It is in this area, I believe, that the gaps are the most numerous and that we must therefore move forward. At the civil level, we will propose that certain measures of the protection order, such as the concealment of the victim's address, may be extended. At the criminal level, it seems to us essential that a victim of domestic violence be received by a specialized officer, that he/she be better informed about the protective arrangements available to him/her and that a period of time be provided between the filing of a complaint and the initial investigation, so that the violent spouse is not notified of the victim's actions before he/she is placed under protection. Finally, it is essential to establish better communication between the civilian and the criminal, which is certainly the most complicated, so that the victims are taken care of, at all levels, as quickly as possible. We are therefore making proposals to strengthen bridges between civil and repressive jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u48	All these measures seem to form a coherent set to achieve the objective we all wish for. Unfortunately, the scope of the bill is not infinite, and we are often blocked by the inadmissibility referred to in articles 40 and 41 of the Constitution. Many other proposals could indeed be made and, within our group, we still expect a lot from the Grenelle against domestic violence. It is time to fill the remaining gaps on this subject. I note the Government's benevolence with regard to the bill, which is a very positive step forward. Many others are, however, to be done because, unfortunately, we have been too late, despite the numerous works produced on the subject, including the report I published in February 2018 with Marie-Pierre Rixain. We must seize every opportunity to demonstrate our support for the victims of violence against women, by showing them and society as a whole that we are doing our utmost, in the legal, social and medical fields, to put an end to violence. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] This bill is enthusiastically welcomed by all members of my group. We hope that its implementation will be the subject of the same enthusiasm: it will require the allocation of new means to implement its implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u50	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u51	"There will be no more silence, no more pass-right, no more usual on femicide," said the President of the Republic on 8 March last, on the occasion of the International Women's Rights Day. Yes, the word must be free. Yes, fear, guilt, shame, isolation and punishment must change sides. However, the numbers are here to remind us that a woman dies every two days under the blows of her spouse, and a man every seventeen days. This scourge is neither acceptable, tolerable, nor bearable, and much less when one learns, once the last, irreparable blow of the violent spouse, that in many cases the victim had reported the violence to the authorities. I am all the more moved by the fact that one of these murders occurred not far from my home in Balagne last March in my constituency. The murder of Julie Douib, like that of all the others – the list is too long: Savannah, Johanna... – have moved the entire island society and touched the Republic in the heart. All of these dead women because we have "not seen", "not known" or "not able" require us to act quickly and collectively. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the qualities to be demonstrated by women and politicians is intellectual honesty. Let us acknowledge that we are not alone in holding the solution and that victory over the infamous will not come from a single political formation: it can only be collective. You have known, Mr rapporteur, that you have worked in a spirit of transparency, which, like all of us, has penetrated the sense of responsibility that is ours. As you said, the subject is too serious for us to mislead ourselves in political postures, calculations or compromises. This bill is a mirror of our awareness of the urgency of finding effective and lasting solutions, immediate solutions, which will have to be part of a forthcoming piece of legislation, built on the conclusions of the Grenelle. It will include the presence of specialized police officers and gendarmerie in each police station and gendarmerie, the psychological and social support of the victims, and, why not, the creation of a report on domestic violence, as I proposed in committee. The Secretary of State in charge of the matter took up the subject of domestic violence, and I welcome the broad consultation she has undertaken with the associations, which are doing a great job, as well as with the elected representatives. I myself participated in two meetings as part of the Grenelle. Ladies and gentlemen, the Libertés et Territoires Group is in favour of our colleague Aurélien Pradié's proposal for a law, because it gives us the opportunity to act in anticipation of the Grenelle's conclusions. The hesitations and delays must stop.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u52	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u53	Since the law of 9 July 2010, groomed by the law of 28 February 2017, the possibility of experimenting with the anti-approximation bracelet over a period of three years has not really been exploited. That is why we support the measure to generalise this system. Spain's experience shows us that this preventive system is a relevant tool to try to eradicate the phenomenon of domestic violence. We also support the reduction of the time limit for issuing a protection order to six days. The average period of one and a half months, now in force, does not respond to the urgency of the situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u54	He's inefficient!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u55	... and may even constitute a major risk, as you have pointed out in committee, Mr rapporteur. The experiment in favour of rehousing also seems to us an interesting measure: too often victims are faced with an intolerable loss of autonomy and insecurity, partly fuelled by the loss of housing. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] Mr rapporteur, if your text goes in the right direction, we would like to have the guarantee that its various measures will be financed. You expect housing assistance to be based on the expertise of Housing Action, but the Government plans to punctuate its working capital in the 2020 Finance Bill. Can he assure us that this envelope will be sanctuarized in the medium or long term to finance the measure? It would also be relevant, in order to act quickly, to enable the current register to play a real role in the detection of situations of domestic violence. We have tabled amendments to that effect. Ladies and gentlemen, together with Michel Castellani – who, last March, alerted the Government to the ineffectiveness of the existing arrangements – but also with all the Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group, we are particularly mobilized in this fight against the unacceptable. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC and GDR groups, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] That is why we will vote in favour of the bill: it is not only a step forward, but also the symbol of our ability to unite so that the unsustainable counter of the number of femicides will definitely stop turning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u56	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u57	"Oh, but to file a complaint, it's until eighteen o'clock! It's too late. » Separated from her husband, Sylvie suffered everything: insults, slaps, threats, guets-apens at the supermarket, the broken mirror, the crushed garage door, serial calls, ten, fifteen, twenty in the day, with a flood of insults, to her home, in front of the school of the little ones... The fear that invades life. She's been looking for a shelter, a rescue. She turned naturally to the gendarmerie. But, throughout her ordeal, how was Sylvie received there? "18 hours," he was told, "it's too late. » Let it not be, Sylvie returns the next day. It is still not possible: "The constable who follows your file is on vacation. Sylvie returns the following Tuesday: "But why didn't you come before? Over the months, she will wipe out: "You have to take your evil in patience", "It's hard for him too"... His spouse has no limits. He is therefore encouraged to do so and can launch: "The cops don't care about you! They think you're crazy! » "The worst," says Sylvie, "is that he's right. They advised us to go to a shrink. But I don't want couple therapy, just protection! And they don't offer me any. » As you know, the rapporteur, the minister, this account is worth a thousand. The social networks are filled with stories of these women who file complaints of domestic violence, or at least try, and to whom a gendarme or a policeman replies: "You are going to ruin his life, the poor one! "; "Think of your children! "; "We're not here to fix the housekeeping scenes! » This bad will, the President of the Republic himself observed, a helmet on his ears, on the telephone platform of 3919. Let there be no suspense: I will vote on your bill. But how can we claim to "act against violence against women" without an article, without a line, devoted to the reception in gendarmerie and police stations? The local public service is the keystone. This is the first asylum for female victims. It is the place that embodies the law, the law with a truncheon, handcuffs and, if necessary, a revolver; the law that must interpose between the weak and the strong; the law which, too often, disappoints.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u58	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u59	If you don't change that, nothing will change. I want to understand. I want to understand these reluctances of police and gendarmes, understand why. [[Protests on a few benches of the LR group]] Let's talk about the machism of law enforcement, first of all. Certainly, the police are a manly institution. Even recruited women, police officers, probably partially integrate the virile values of the group. But there's something else I think. With these domestic violences, the policeman must intrude into the intimate, into the couple. We're guessing her unease. Is that his place? He's a guardian of public order, not private order. And, above all, who are the delinquents here? Ordinary men, not thugs, drug addicts, precinct regulars with long lockers like the arm. It's you, it's me, it's them. And, finally, who's the most credible? The woman arrives at the station, swallowed up, the brain turned, with fear, with doubt. She gets there after a struggle, a struggle against herself, against her failure, against her shame. Strangely, she is less assured in her truth than the aggressor in her lies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u60	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u61	These assumptions, I mention them neither to condemn, nor to excuse, but only to understand. To work on it, with the associations, with the gendarmes themselves, with the police themselves. To make it change. To make them a priority, their business, their pride – as yesterday with road safety. So that what is, if not, a lock becomes the key. Here you strengthen the protection order: very well; the marital home will be reserved for the wife and her children, very well, with the prohibition to the violent spouse to approach, very well, by decision of the family court, very well. But what's the point, what's the point of this law, this law in addition, if the first link obstructs, if it obstructs? That is why I have requested by amendment that police officers and gendarmes receive regular training on the issue of gender-based and sexual violence. But what did they say to me? "Irreceivable, for lack of direct link to the text. I asked that the police hierarchy, from the base to the top, be trained in the treatment of domestic violence: "Irreceivable, for lack of direct link to the text. I asked that anyone who enters the police station to complain about domestic violence be informed of your protection order: "Irreceivable, for lack of direct link to the text. But is there a more direct connection, on the contrary? [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, SOC and GDR. – Ms. Josy Poueyto also applauds]] It is a law that you make there, of course: these are words, articles, paragraphs. But how will you bring them into the real, into women's lives, if the guardians of the law don't know? It's as if you were making a tool, a new tool, a legal tool, but without hands to seize it; a tool, but without a craftsman, no trained craftsman, no skilled craftsman. Well, I demand that the police and gendarmes be artisans, the craftsmen of this change!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u62	He's terribly right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u63	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u64	In 2018, one hundred and forty-nine people died under the blows of their spouse or former spouse, including one hundred and twenty-one women and twenty-eight men. Violence within the family also kills children: last year, twenty-one children died, killed by one of their parents. Such violence occurs in all social categories, at all ages and throughout the country. This year, the tragic course of the hundred women killed has already been crossed – there are one hundred and seventeen to date. This dramatic situation requires urgent and effective action. In this context, we must welcome the proposal for a law by Mr Pradie, which aims to further protect the victim and to strengthen the material and legal guarantees that she enjoys. For too long, statements of intent on the subject have only led to little – too little – concrete action. Of course, the legislative arsenal to combat violence had been considerably strengthened over the past 15 years, and five inter-ministerial plans to combat violence against women had been adopted since 2005. However, the worrying number of femicides and the persistent phenomenon of domestic violence raise questions about the need to adapt the law and protection mechanisms to better take account of the specific nature of such violence. Moreover, while legal arrangements exist, they are unfortunately insufficiently applied. The Seine-Saint-Denis was the first department to set up, in 2002, an observatory on violence against women, designed to monitor the phenomena of violence, to better understand them, but also to act with all partners: police services, justice, social services, health services, militant associations. Some of these devices experienced in my department, which is also that of Marie-George Buffet, have been generalized at the national level, such as the serious danger telephone. Others would also deserve to be extended to the entire territory. I will defend amendments of appeal to that effect. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Guillaume Vuilletet also applauds]] I would like to take this opportunity to greet a great activist, one of our comrades, who is at the origin of all this and whom the rapporteur has also heard in connection with the preparation of the bill: Ernestine Ronai. More generally, the question of how effectively to deal with gender-specific violence on the ground is essential. According to the High Council for Equality between Women and Men, 500 million euros per year would be needed to protect women who file complaints, and 1.1 billion euros to protect all women at risk, those who report domestic violence without necessarily being identified by law enforcement. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] However, France today spends only EUR 79 million a year. I would caution the minister and my colleagues in the majority against the hypocrisy that there would be a joint vote on the bill today if it were not to allocate the means required for its implementation next week, during the consideration of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u65	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u66	With regard to the provisions of the bill, we support them as a whole and welcome the work of Aurélien Pradié, his method and his careful search for consensus. The strengthening of the protection order and the setting of a period of six days from the date of referral to the judge is a real step forward. It should be remembered that decisions are delivered in an average of 42 days, which is far too long even though the procedure is urgent. Let us not lose sight, however, of the fact that the measure will be effective only if sufficient resources are provided for justice. Similarly, to encourage the deployment of the serious danger telephone by extending its conditions of attribution to the case in which the author is at large and to the case in which an application for a protection order is being investigated before the family court fills a gap in the system. In addition, the fact that it can now be sought by any means, including by the victim or his or her lawyer without going through an association, will be more effective. Personalized housing support for victims of domestic violence is also a real step forward for us. With regard to the anti-approximation bracelet, we support the device while cautioning, in the light of the Spanish experience, about the anxiety it may cause. Maintaining the right-of-way link between the victim and the violent spouse leads to questions. Associations insist on the need, sometimes, to permanently cut bridges; Or the electronic bracelet, by definition, keeps the link going. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups. – Mr. Ian Boucard also applauds]] Despite this reservation, as you will understand, we will vote in favour of the text because the urgency and seriousness of the situation mean that we must act immediately, concretely and effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u67	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u68	Like Sophie Auconia, we would all have wanted to be at the origin of this bill, but it is not very serious because, in reality, we are all defending it alongside our colleague, Aurélien Pradié, whose work was remarkable also because he was able to involve all the groups. This has been achieved, after a fruitful examination in committee, by a text which we will have had a profound meaning and which, I hope, will be voted unanimously. Perhaps I will simply make a correction to Mr Pradie's speech. This morning, at 6:20 a.m., I was a guest of a radio station and the host told me that there were not one hundred and seventeen victims, but one hundred and eighteen. I don't know if that's the case. But I know that, unfortunately, this additional death is likely to occur soon. The challenge is to put an end to this macabre count; It is also to understand and to make clear that in addition to these eighteen femicides, 220,000 acts of violence are committed each year on women by their spouses, acts of varying gravity, but always traumatic for the victims. We're in an emergency. At every passing moment, a victim can succumb. That is why we are now considering this text – which could have been another: I myself had tabled a bill on the subject; But it doesn't matter – to act very quickly and in a consensual way, within the framework given to us now, that of the Grenelle of domestic violence. It is necessary to reinforce the awareness already begun: our fellow citizens must not simply say that domestic violence, of course, exists, but also consider that it is their case, the case of each of us – the case, also of national representation, because, as one of the speakers rightly pointed out, the law must first protect the weak. Of course, not everything is in the law, Madam Keeper of Seals. In this regard, you have reported on your efforts in training and "defragmentation" of services – to resume your term. I also note the commitment to conduct an audit in police stations and gendarmerie to better understand what is happening there, to better train and to better explain. I also want to highlight what already exists on an experimental basis. I am thinking of a very small gendarmerie of Asnières-sur-Oise – it is not a big metropolis – where a particular route has been planned so that women who come to expose their misfortune are no longer obliged to meet someone when they arrive; I think it's important. The work of co-construction and consensus-building in which we participated could not end until late last night, as the devil is in detail. But it will be extended by the work done with the Government and with our colleagues in the Senate, who will complete the process of enriching the text. I know that the measures that will emerge will be useful and even valuable. I am, of course, thinking of simplifying the protection order, which should enable it to find a new development. I am also thinking of housing measures, which are fundamental. In this area, much has already been done: the creation of 1000 accommodation places to ensure shelter; access for women victims of violence to the Visale guarantee; conventions with the HLM world; and, thanks to the ELAN law – which changed housing, development and digital technology – the end of the absurdity that a woman would continue to pay for the housing from which she was driven by violence. I am still thinking of the serious danger telephone, the future ban on the carrying of weapons for violent companions and the solicitation of the parties regarding the custody of children. I am of course also thinking of the device of the anti-approximation bracelet. I lack time to explain its relevance; Let's just say that, even if it is not magical, where it has been implemented, in Spain, there have been no cases of recidivism on the part of those who have carried it – just over 1100 people to date. Do you realize that today, women are being murdered even though the proceedings are under way, that their spouse has already been punished? The effort to be made remains considerable. The Grenelle will continue to produce its effects. In this regard, I welcome the work of the La République en marche group, which is also taking place on the ground, at the meeting of the associations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir, SOC and GDR groups. – Mrs Constance The Grip also applauds]] A journalist once asked me if I was concerned about the problem, if I had experienced it. I replied that this was not the question: the issue is that our nation as a whole feels concerned, that each of us feels this feeling deeply. We don't need to have experienced it to know what that means, just to look around and to give the nation's support to those who need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u69	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u70	One hundred and seventeen: this number, which has been repeated and will still be so today, resonates in our thoughts and in the Chamber as it resonates seriously in our society. It's not just a statistic: it's the frightening result of our collective inability to protect women who are victims of a violent spouse or former spouse who is gradually turning into a murderer. To all the lost lives are added all those that are torn forever: that of women who are fortunately not dead, but whose scars will never close; children who have also been victims of violence; the children who buried their mother and whose father is in prison. In the face of this unbearable observation, we cannot leave it to emotion, we must go beyond the moment of condemnation: we must act to try to reverse this terrible trend. Of course, things have already been done in recent years. I am thinking in particular of the creation of the protection order, which was made available to the family judge in 2010 and which constitutes a major development of our law. Unfortunately, it is sometimes misused and, in general, too few and far too long. So we can and must go much further, because the number of women killed each year by their companion is no longer decreasing. To go further, this is exactly what Aurélien Pradié proposes in the text of the law before us, resulting from numerous hearings and consultations with victims' associations, housing operators, parliamentarians, lawyers and magistrates, and fed by the study of what has worked in other countries, particularly Spain. I mentioned earlier the protection order and the possibility of strengthening this tool to make it readability and speedier,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u71	We must indeed go further!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u72	... and this is proposed in Chapter 1 of this bill by including in the Civil Code that the issuance of the order is not subject to the filing of a complaint, even though it has so far been required in certain departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u73	It's a useful precision!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u74	Similarly, it states that the family judge will issue his decision within six days of the hearing and not "as soon as possible", as is currently the case. This chapter also makes it possible to reverse the principle in force today by ensuring that the JAF gives, with exception, the enjoyment of the family home to the plaintiff when it considers, in the light of the evidence in its possession, that there are serious reasons to consider as probable the commission of the alleged acts of violence and the danger to which the victim or one or more children are exposed. The same will apply to the arrangement of children's access to the spouse suspected of violence. All these provisions will make the implementation of the uniform protection order in the territory and will speed up its implementation, because it was in this spirit that it was created in 2010: an emergency measure. I'm going to chapter II. It introduces a new protection tool for victims by extending the wear of the anti-approximation bracelet to persons convicted or charged with domestic violence, but also during immediate appearances or paroles. This preventive measure, taken with the consent of the victim, will ensure that prohibitions to approach them are effectively respected. The use of anti-approximation bracelet technology will be an effective tool for securing security, as it will help to combat the recurrence of acts of violence and monitor compliance with legal protection measures. With regard to accompanying measures, Article 7 of Chapter III proposes to experiment with a particularly ambitious system of personalized housing assistance for victims benefiting from the protection order. This will facilitate access to housing when they decide or are forced to leave marital housing. Too many victims remain between the claws of their executioner because they have no choice, because they lack the financial resources to leave and no family to receive them. Of course, the world of associations already offers emergency solutions, but in insufficient numbers. The new system will be a complementary solution to keep victims away from the violent spouse. This experiment is necessary, and I welcome the Housing Action Group, which is ready to become fully involved. Finally, in its chapter IV, the bill seeks to facilitate the handing over to victims of serious danger telephones, an effective tool that ensures the rapid movement of law enforcement personnel in case of danger. Some victims were unable to access it; It will now be accessible to them as of right from the public prosecutor. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this bill contains several measures that will strengthen the means available to justice and law enforcement to protect and accompany victims, and to keep violent spouses at bay. I welcome the precise and meticulous work done by our colleague, Mr Aurélien Pradié, to bring about a serious and proactive law. I am not saying that it will change everything and that it will save all lives, but it will strengthen, I am sure, the legislative, therefore legal, arsenal of combating violence within the family. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups. – Mr. Stéphane Peu applause also]] We have the responsibility, here and today, to pass this bill; We will have the responsibility, on the ground, to monitor its implementation tomorrow. Beyond our political groups, beyond our differences and sensitivities, we must come together on this text which deals with a major problem in our society. Women, children, men, victims of violence are watching us today: they expect us to act to protect them. So let's do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u75	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u76	I shall vote with a great deal of heart for the text you are proposing to us, Mr rapporteur. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I am constantly fighting the President of the Republic and the government to which you belong. But here, in view of the text that brings us together today, I want to acknowledge your and your government's courage to open the debate on some of the most painful, and sometimes even the most terrifying, issues of our time. This one's one. He's burning. I have always been very impressed by the long history of women, by their long journey to gain what should have flowed from the source since the dawn of time, that is, their equality with men. I have always been very impressed by the fact that it was not until 1945 that women obtained the right to vote. Yet, when I look at my childhood, and even in my adult life, I see how important Mom's role was in the home; I always felt she was the one who finally decided. This was also the case with my grandmother and the mothers and grandmothers who surrounded me. It was possible that this was also the case in other places. But what we are talking about today is not new either, and repeating the same thing is not necessarily enriching the debate. I will therefore say how struck I am at the immense loss of esteem that man carries himself, or more precisely that he carries to the human race. For a long time, if not never, we have been so suspicious of each other. The slightest look, the slightest gesture, the slightest sign, may be misinterpreted. And I have to say I'm worried about it. Seeing so many men and women prefer the company of a dog or cat to that of any other being calls me. My attitude has led me frequently, even at a very young age, to collect confidences. I often tried to get to the end of the serious problems that were entrusted to me,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u77	[[Smile]] What courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u78	...and I often hit a wall where I didn't think I'd find it. I am currently faced with three cases where women are in great danger. I will mention only one: that of a police security assistant in Bayonne, whose office, such as the office accommodation, is 80 metres from the Bayonne Court of Appeal, and who has been deprived of custody of his child. Two judges succeeded each other, and the last, despite all the advice she was able to provide, stated that she still needed to be kept away from her son, whose father was still being prosecuted. But there's nothing to do with it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] I've been in this fight for three years. It concerns my department and concerns, Madam Keeper of the Seals, in addition to the police, the Court of Bayonne and the Court of Pau. I see a woman and a whole family on the brink of depression. So if I could, by voting this law, find the beginning of a solution, I would say to all those who come to see me – and to all those, for there are sometimes –: "Be reassured. Your problem will have a solution. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u79	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u80	I would like to thank all the representatives of the political groups in this House for their comments, not in my view, which is quite secondary and ephemeral, but in relation to an absolutely essential cause. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I am grateful to you for having clearly expressed the Government's mobilization with us to move the matter forward in the context of this bill. The Prime Minister himself initiated the accelerated procedure on this text on 16 September. So we are ready to work together. I think, Madam Keeper of the Seals, ladies and gentlemen, that beyond the subject which brings us together and which will occupy us all day long, there is a demonstration of what is the life of this House: for decades there have been bitter, sometimes personal, fighting in these walls, partisan battles that contribute to the health of our democracy, but also, quite often and happily, moments of almost sacred union behind causes which, because they go beyond us immensely, can only bring us together. And today we are living one of those moments, which must not arouse individual pride but a collective satisfaction of what is national representation and the life of our democracy and of our Republic. This text will not solve everything, as many have said, I am the first to agree. First of all, however, I must point out that our group has tabled two bills on this day: the first is the one we are defending this morning, and the second is this afternoon. This morning, of course, it is a matter of laying a foundation stone on the building without being able to deal with all aspects of the issue technically or f at present. I would like to repeat here that one of the reasons is that, Member of the Commission, although rapporteur in this case, I am subject to exactly the same rules as you, ladies and gentlemen, in this case under Rule 40, under which many of our amendments, including many of my amendments, have been declared inadmissible. This article does not allow the French Parliament to incur new expenses for its country, which, in my view, is rather sad, as are the other provisions relating to admissibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u82	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u83	Several of your amendments, Mr Ruffin, had been welcomed, in particular those aimed at improving information on the protection order in police stations and gendarmerie, but I am not the one who separates between what is admissible and what is not. This question of the admissibility of the amendments poses, I believe, a real problem for the serene functioning of our debates and our parliamentary democracy. The whole building of this first bill is based on what already exists in the architecture of our law, namely the protection order. We will have an opportunity to return, but I want to say a few words at this point. When I drew up this proposal with colleagues in my group, the question arose as to whether we should rely on that order, a framework within which the civil judge can take decisions that are sometimes custodial but, in any case, protective of the victim, or whether to imagine a completely different architecture, a completely different model. Rather, my intimate conviction led me to this last option, that of the specialized courts. This model, chosen by Spain, allows civil force and criminal force to be placed in the same hands. But if we had incorporated it into this bill, it would surely have had a much less happy fate, and we would not have advanced the cause by a millimetre. That is why, as I say, this text is only a step. My inner conviction is that we will have to go far beyond that. Our responsibility today is to lay the groundwork for a path that must lead to the immediate protection of women. The protection order, as it currently exists, you have recognized it yourself, the seal keeper, is a promising but still insufficient tool. The figures speak for themselves: 10% of the competent courts have never issued a protection order – I said 10%! No one can believe here or elsewhere that there is no problem of domestic violence and that not a single woman needs protection through the Ordinance in 10 per cent of the courts. This means that this tool is not used as it should. Another figure: 3100 orders are issued, but 40% of applications are rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u84	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u85	And I am not sure that these rejections are always amply justified. The ratio between the number of orders issued and the volume of domestic violence is one to twenty! There are 3100 protection orders for 700,000 acts of domestic violence. Suffice to say that if this tool is promising, it must of course be made a structuring tool, which is not the case today. And that is the purpose of this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir, SOC, GDR, FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] I conclude by telling you that, of course, there can be no political ambition without budgetary ambition – these were the first words of my previous intervention. In this respect, however, neither you nor I can claim control of everything. The Government will make proposals. We will be looking at a finance bill here, and I clearly confirm it to those who have spoken in this direction: we will not have to see a millimetre of gap between today's decisions – in which we will vote, I hope, largely – and tomorrow's budgetary arbitrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u86	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u87	In response to your comments, I would first like to point out, to those who made proposals of a nature other than those contained in this text, that the scope of action of the fight against domestic violence – and more generally violence against women – goes far beyond the content of the bill. Several requests were made. I am thinking of you, Mrs Auconia, who referred to the enhanced cooperation between the civilian judge and the criminal judge. We must, of course, act in this direction: it will involve various recommendations, even instructions and injunctions – but they will not necessarily be part of the law. Mrs Untermaier, you mentioned the need to cover the costs incurred by victims of violence. That is something we are thinking about, and perhaps we will find it in the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u88	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u89	Mr Ruffin, you raised the questions of training and reception in police stations and gendarmerie. You're right. As far as training is concerned, I had in a way responded to you in advance by sharing with you the extraordinary voluntarism of the National School of the Judiciary, which is now deploying a full range of training courses on this subject. These trainings, which are compulsory for judges, will also be open to other staff. The reception in the police stations is the responsibility of my colleague Minister of the Interior, who explained that he too would conduct proactive actions on this point. Mr Little, like others of your colleagues, you have dealt with the question of means. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, we have these means: I would remind you that, under the 2020 budget, I will have 100 magistrates and 284 additional clerks, as well as financial resources for associations that help us combat violence against women. I will have the opportunity to develop this point more broadly. Finally, you mentioned, Mr rapporteur, two points which seem particularly interesting to me. First of all, you pointed out that protection orders are not being used sufficiently, and you outlined several lines of action, which are contained in your proposal. Other elements, which we do not think sufficiently, will, however, also deserve our attention. When I recently visited a court, one of the civilian judges explained to me, for example, that it was often impossible for him to issue a protection order because of medical certificates that were poorly drafted by the doctors, for lack of information on how to do so properly. I do not know the precise incidence of this phenomenon, but this is a point that I need to rework with the RSA – Regional Health Agency. Beyond the law, I therefore believe that we must pay attention to certain practices. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] As for the Spanish model that you call your wishes, it is based on the existence of specialized courts for domestic violence. We have made another choice, not by habit or for the sole purpose of respecting the French judicial organisation, but also because it seems to me that the treatment of violence must be ensured throughout the territory, in all the local courts. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] That is why, in order to maintain this closeness, I wanted all the courts to be seized, but in some cases we could resort to specialised channels and, in all cases, to deal with the urgency. That is your proposal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM, UDI-Agir, SOC and GDR groups]] I will simply conclude by noting that beyond these questions, which go beyond the scope of the bill itself, I have really appreciated your voluntarism, as well as our shared words. I am thinking of Mr Acquaviva, who, through this bill, speaks of "the symbol of our ability to unite us"; to Mr Viry, who reminds us of the urgent need to act; to Mrs Poueyto, who sees this text as a great opportunity; To Mr Boucard, who says, "Then let's do it"; and finally to Mr Vuilletet, for whom we are all concerned. That is what I share.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u90	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u91	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u92	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u93	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u94	The first speaker on Rule 1 is Mr Stéphane Viry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u95	A consensus seems to emerge, after the general discussion, to bring this bill to a successful conclusion and to achieve the objectives assigned to it. It is therefore necessary to strengthen our legal arsenal in order to have effective and easily applicable technical tools. This is the objective of Article 1, which aims to reform the protection order, first of all by reaffirming the existing law – it is not a question of reinventing the powder – by supplementing it and, moreover, by standardizing its application. As has been pointed out, the law is in fact applied in various ways, today, according to the courts. You have, Madam Keeper of the Seals, mentioned the diagnosis made by the magistrates: the system is good, but it does not work well enough. Thus, 40 per cent of protection orders were rejected, while the civil system, which was welcomed by the associations, had to become more effective. The Women's Foundation, whose work I have consulted on the reflections on domestic violence, considers that this protection tool is relevant, but insufficiently used, unknown to women themselves and often inconsistent in the measures handed down. The aim is to restore force to the evidence, so that judges are not tempted, out of uncertainty, to refuse the application of a protection order. The latter must therefore become the basis for the safeguard of the entire device. Section 1 allows – and I believe it is right – to recall that it will no longer be necessary for the victim to file a complaint for a protection order to be issued. It must be the support for all your text, and we will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u96	Very good proposal, and very good intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u97	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u98	I do not want to pass this session without mentioning a painful day, organized three weeks ago in my constituency by Women in Solidarity, the Observatory on Violence against Women and the High Council for Equality between Women and Men. Throughout this day, we have heard a frightening series of testimonies of physical and moral violence, destroyed lives and distress. Such situations oblige us to act to develop the dangerous telephone, to improve the management of remote bracelets, to ensure a better reception in gendarmerie and police stations, even if progress has been made, and, in general, to reduce the use of violence. We must also act on the law, Madam Minister, in particular to redefine parental authority. I will conclude by quoting the president of the Observatoire des violences faites aux femmes, who, after citing Simone de Beauvoir's words that "fatality triumphs as soon as one believes in it," added: "We do not believe in fatality regarding violence against women. They're going back. It's a good quote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u99	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u100	First of all, I would like to point out that, if a bill was introduced by the right-wing opposition in the context of its parliamentary niche, what I welcome is first of all because the great promises of the Government, which announced, a little more in a year, a very important law, have broken its nose on reality. The Government has not responded to our country's ambition to deal with violence against women, nor to the magnificent MeToo movement, whose deployment called for public action to follow this dynamic and to accompany it with drastic measures to enable women, not only to lodge complaints in dignified conditions, but also to be accompanied in their journeys. Then came the Grenelle announced drum beating to promise measures in this area, but we find today that the law does not go far enough and, above all, that the means are not at the rendezvous. [[Applause and approvals on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Stéphane Peu applause also]] [[Long approvals on several benches of the LR group]] I would also like to say that I regret that the Secretary of State responsible for this issue since the beginning of the quinquennium, which is on all levels to defend a feminism of communication, is not in the Chamber today to discuss the bill we are considering. Where is she? I am concerned – not that Mrs Belloubet too would not have her say on the bill, of course, but because we cannot go and announce the figures and laws that do not materialise either in the budgetary reality or in the reality of the laws adopted in this House, and be absent when the subject is on the table. I'm sorry. On the other hand, we will have a lot to say in our discussions. We do not have the same approach as you on all points, ladies and gentlemen, and as you know,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Autain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u102	...but we want to move forward and today we are in a positive state of mind in the face of these bills...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u103	Mrs Autain, out of respect for the groups presenting texts in the context of parliamentary niches, I would like to strictly apply the rules that apply to speaking times. I would therefore like to thank you for concluding with one word.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u104	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Ericka Bareigts also applauds]] In conclusion, I welcome the fact that many men are speaking on this subject in our House. It's also a step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u105	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u106	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Republican Group on its parliamentary initiative. Already, in 2010, it was the associations that, relayed by deputies from different groups, carried the great law on violence against women. We see here the role of a Parliament in relation to reality, with associative life, with citizens. Secondly, I will mention the means necessary for prevention, training and information. We have talked about the reception in the police stations and the very uneven application of the protection order, but we need to train and inform a wide range of actors on the measures at their disposal to combat this scourge, which is the worst expression of the patriarchy that prevails in our society. Finally, although I really congratulate the rapporteur on this bill, I regret that the situation of foreign women has not been dealt with. Indeed, when women who obtain their residence permits on the grounds of marriage are subjected to violence and leave the marital home to file a complaint, they do not obtain the renewal of their residence permits and therefore face a double penalty. That is why I tabled a bill and an amendment to that bill. We need to deal with this, because it's a real problem. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Ericka Bareigts also applauds]] Finally, I would like to stress the role of associations. As has been said about the observatory set up in Seine-Saint-Denis by Ernestine Ronai, associations throughout France play a very important role in accompaniment. As you know as elected officials, in order for a woman to say that she is a victim of violence, and then to go to the police station or the gendarmerie, she needs to be supported at all times. When we talk about means, we also need to talk about subsidies that allow associations to function.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u107	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u108	First of all, let me welcome the unanimous and trans-partisan commitment expressed during the work on this text. I am glad that we have been able, both in committee and in the delegation to women's rights, to work in a spirit of demand and openness. Article 1 provides for a strengthening of the provisions of the protection order. It is an essential mechanism for the protection of victims of violence, as it covers the period when these victims are the most vulnerable. The associations unanimously affirm its usefulness, as I was able to see during the hearings I conducted on behalf of the delegation for women's rights. The purpose of this article is, first of all, to clarify in the law that the issue of the protection order is not subject to the prior filing of a complaint. This is a pragmatic proposal, which will undoubtedly improve the practices of the judges responsible for implementing this system, and I therefore fully support it. The proposed law also seeks to improve the effectiveness of protection orders, on the one hand by establishing a maximum time limit for their issuance and, on the other hand, by inviting the judge to assess systematically all the elements that can be determined by the protection order. These two provisions, which are essential to me, will allow for faster and more appropriate protection in the light of the reality of the situation of the victims. During the hearings, I also found that protection orders were insufficiently used. In this regard, I would like to welcome the circular issued by the Guard of Seals on 9 May to reiterate the importance of enforcing the existing provisions that are underutilized. Communication efforts must be continued to ensure that women victims, as well as the police and the judiciary, fully grasp these provisions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] The protection order has proven its worth. We must continue to do so. This bill will make its use more frequent and effective, which is a very good thing for the protection of women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u109	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u110	I too congratulate the Group of the Republicans and the Group of the European People's Party on this excellent work. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to return to the question of means in the light of the current situation in our department of La Réunion. Yesterday, a press conference was held by the police and gendarmerie authorities, which claimed an increase of 13.72 per cent in the number of cases of domestic violence. We believe that this increase is due to the fact that the word has been released, for two reasons. Firstly, the associations have long been carrying out important work in this direction, and we have organized a reception on the territory by trained professionals who gather their words. This release of speech, organised by associations and professional support, has the effect that women are now increasingly coming to speak and complain. This phenomenon is linked to the question of means, which many of us have raised. Last year, as for many years, associations suffered, and still suffer, from a lack of resources. We must hear it and respond to this demand, otherwise we will put under the carpet what is going on sneaky behind the doors. I will illustrate my point with the words of the prosecutor of Saint-Denis de La Réunion, who declared in front of us, in the prefecture, during the Grenelle against domestic violence, on 3 September, that six social workers were worth better than four – because, in fact, we obtained these additional posts – but that is not enough. Minister, I want us to deal with this problem of means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u111	Mrs Bareigts, thank you for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u112	Without additional resources allocated to associations and without trained staff, what we are voting here will have little impact on violence against women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u113	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u114	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs Autain, Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa is very present on these subjects, and not only on television or radio sets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u115	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u116	It's not enough to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u117	It plays both a major role in the field of its own and a role of embodiment of an eminently inter-ministerial policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u118	We need concrete action!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u119	She's not in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u120	His place is here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If it is not present today, it is because all the provisions we are going to talk about are exclusively the responsibility of the Chancellery. I can't let you say she's just communicating.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u122	It's indefensible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u123	You two could have been here! Nothing prevented Mrs. Schiappa from being with you on our benches!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u124	We come to the amendments to Article 1. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 82 and 98. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u125	The purpose of this amendment is to allow approved associations, with the consent of the victim, to apply for protection orders. Such flexibility would speed up requests for victims and increase the chances of success. As soon as the victim of violence is safely placed, the victim must understand how to draft, and then submit, a request for a protection order. However, in this emergency situation, associations have a very important role to play in accompaniment, since they have developed procedural expertise in this field. In fact, the chances of obtaining a protection order are much greater for a victim who receives psychological support and legal support from an association. This amendment, which came out of a request from the Women's Foundation, which presented it in this way, is therefore intended to strengthen the protection chain around the victim.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u126	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u127	To complement Mrs Fiat's remarks, I would add that the associations are doing a great job. They do works of patience, benevolence and listening. They are there every day on the territory, and I wanted to pay tribute to their role and presence. It is important that the law implements and enshrines this role. I will conclude with a thought for Fadela, a resident of Ivry-sur-Seine, who died at 21 years of age, one hundred-threeth femicide victim this year. She was a neighbor, a friend.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u128	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u129	I fully understand the substance of this approach, which I agree with. We all note that, as François Ruffin recalled earlier, women who come to places that are not usual for them – police stations or gendarmerie – and where they have, for the most part, never surrendered, must be accompanied, including physically, in these procedures. We have had many accounts of the fact that, when these women make the very difficult choice to speak, knowing in advance that their word will surely be questioned or even questioned, they need real support and support. However, these amendments seem counterproductive to me. The law must allow these women to be accompanied by whomever they wish. It may be an association whose competences are recognized, but not all associations have these competences; So that there is a certain danger to include in the law an accompaniment by associations, which, in some departments, are not armed to assume this procedure. Specialized lawyers, on the other hand, do very well: in a very overwhelming majority of cases of protection orders – almost 95% – women are accompanied by a lawyer. It therefore takes professional support to apply for a protection order, and this is not without consequences. In particular, as we shall see earlier, in the event of the constitution of a civil party, the parties, in particular the woman in danger, must demonstrate to the judge in order to obtain the maximum protection. The victim woman must therefore be aware of the extent of the protection provided by the law, which requires support. If I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, it is because I fear that we will put too much weight on the associations. I, on the other hand, like you, salute the considerable role they play. The legislative amendment that we propose will then remind you that the protection order is accessible to all women, accessible by all means and not only – I insist on this point – through the associations. In some departments, prosecutors have entered into agreements, probably in good faith, with only one association. However, lifts indicate the problematic nature of this unique filter. Women should be given the opportunity to go through different channels. It is risky, in my view, to cite associations specifically, because lawyers and so many other possibilities of accompaniment should also be mentioned. While sharing the substance of your intention and your legitimate tribute to the associations, the opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u130	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u131	I would also like to commend the work done by the associations. The first words of a text on a document we published a few days ago relate to the accompanying work they do with women who are victims of violence. They play an essential role which must be stressed here, in particular the Women's Foundation, which, as I understand it, Mrs Fiat, is at the origin of this amendment. For the rest, I consider, like the rapporteur, that going beyond that would lead to the association playing a counterproductive role. What you are proposing may result in the association becoming a party to the protection order procedure or in it being assigned a role as a lawyer to others. I therefore ask for a withdrawal or give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u132	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u133	The associations have been doing a very important and undoubtedly pioneering work for a very long time. But these amendments introduce confusion about their role. Playing a role as the victim's companion, being present at his side, including physically as Mr. Pradie said, in difficult times is one thing. On the other hand, to file a complaint and to take steps instead of the person, this will not, in the long run, be without a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u134	Not "in place of", but "with"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u135	This gender confusion should not be introduced. There are many other ways – such as setting up one-stop shops – to help these associations, which often operate on a voluntary basis. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] On the other hand, I found Mrs Autain's remarks very correct: Ms Schiappa has been very much involved in the Grenelle of domestic violence, including measures that were the responsibility of the Chancery. His place is therefore among us, in the Chamber, when we act to move things. National representation legitimately requires its presence. His absence is indefensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u136	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u137	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] According to the lack of information in the press, it appears that Ms. Schiappa participated until 10:30 a.m. in a breakfast with journalists from Elle Active, around the place of women in politics. Perhaps she could have changed her agenda to be present in the Chamber to discuss a major issue. But let's put an end to this controversy, we said what we had to say. We will not withdraw this key amendment. Women's difficulty in seeking justice through complex workings is real, especially since they are then in a particular psychological state, in situations of maximum stress, anxiety. In this context, accompaniment by an association is decisive. I would point out to Mr Pradié that our amendment states: "with the consent of the victim". The association therefore does not replace the will of the victim, but comes with him. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On the other hand, if this role is important for associations, it is mainly because the funds they receive do not match the work they do and the needs to combat violence against women and to support them. Let us therefore give them this legal opportunity, as well as the means to carry out their actions with dignity to reduce femicides and violence against women. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, LaREM, LR, MODEM, SOC, UDI-Agir, GDR]] Finally, I would like to commend not only the considerable associative work which allows us to have this debate today, but also the presence in the Chamber of a figure in this fight. She has dedicated so much energy to her, she is a remarkable actress and I would like her to be greeted from the bottom of her heart. Her name is Eva Darlan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u138	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u139	[[Ms. Fiona Lazaar applauds]] First of all, I want to note that there is no need for controversy. The text is particularly consensual, and it is happy, because we must act together to combat violence. I would also like to recall the decisive role played by associations in the psychological and legal support of victims. But my practice as a lawyer, for several years – I have had the opportunity to accompany victims and sometimes perpetrators of violence – allows me to say that what matters is that everyone remains in their role so that this support is as appropriate as possible. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore agree with the arguments put forward by the rapporteur and by the guardian of the seals on this issue. We must act in such a way that the associations can carry out their activities but without losing sight of the overall meaning. An accompanying work is done by the associations, but also, as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, by the lawyers – 95% of the victims are accompanied by a request for a protection order, a figure which I welcome and which may perhaps increase further. But everyone must remain in their role, it is in the very interest of the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u140	I have before me two amendments, Nos 141 and 140, which can be presented together. The floor is open to Mr. Jean Terlier to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u141	The rapporteur is right to stress the protection order, a procedure which must be placed at the heart of the scheme. Like the rapporteur and Mr Viry, we all see that it is unfortunately not as used as it should be. At the time of legislation on this issue, one has to wonder why, of the 70 000 cases of domestic violence brought before the public prosecutor's offices, only 3000 protection orders are issued. We also have to ask ourselves why only sixteen of the 173 courts in our country rule and why almost one in two is rejected. One of the reasons why judges and lawyers have so little recourse to a protection order is the paradox surrounding this procedure: a family judge, however, sometimes has characteristics specific to the criminal judge. A civilian judge may therefore be reluctant to impose measures that violate freedoms. If we are to succeed in the bet of the anti-approximation bracelet, this difficulty must be rectified in order to enable the family judge to take advantage of this mechanism without being repelled by this situation. The amendments that I propose allow – the custody of the seals will agree – to create a bridge between civil justice and criminal justice, by making the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office mandatory when the Family Court is considering the introduction of the device of the anti-approximation bracelet. The reasoned opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office would thus support the family judge, relieving him by allowing him to take a measure which falls within the scope of the criminal judge's recommendations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u143	I ask for the withdrawal or issue an unfavorable opinion. I will stop for a moment on this issue that touches at the heart of a divergence of views – it takes at least one for us to be able to debate! As I said in my introductory statement, we rely on the legislator's legacy, which provides for stronger prerogatives to be given to the civil judge, which can be closer to those which, in our tradition, we attribute exclusively to the criminal judge. Made by France in 2010, this choice to entrust even more power to the civil judge in the area of the protection of women may have caused embarrassment. There were then two possibilities for us. The first was to entrust everything to the criminal judge – except that he is not as responsive as the civil judge can be with the protection order. The other solution was to have recourse to a specialised court, as in Spain, where civil jurisdiction and criminal jurisdiction are in the same hands. In this case, the bridge you were talking about, this necessary goes back and forth, no longer has to be. However, our country has not opted for either the first or the second solution. With regard to the issue of the bracelet, it is therefore necessary to rely on the architecture that is ours today. I go further: I see no problem in strengthening the power of the family judge under the protection order. In fact, this is already the case since it can take several decisions in this context, such as the prohibition of contact, the prohibition of appearance or measures relating to housing or the carrying of weapons. Thirty years ago, these prerogatives would have been considered by purists to be the sole responsibility of the criminal judge. But our law has evolved because today's society is no longer exactly the same as it was thirty years ago. The intellectually legitimate question that you raise has already been asked and resolved in 2010. The legislator then said that it was possible to entrust the family judge with enhanced prerogatives which were little or no part of the competence of the criminal judge. We must then recall the precarious nature of the protection order, which lasts only six months. It can therefore be accepted, from a constitutional and intellectual point of view, that, in a decision taken for a limited period of time, rather than definitively, the civil judge should have strengthened powers. I would also like to stress that the prerogatives granted to the family judge are not as custodial as those of the criminal judge: in practice, it is a matter of entrusting the judge with the possibility – which he already has – of prohibiting contact between two persons for six months, which is not an absolute infringement of the freedom of both. Similarly, whether it is decisions on housing, weapons or the right of accommodation and visitation – which can be suspended and publicised – these are always obvious protective measures. Beyond the technical dimension, the essential subject matter of civil law is also – and perhaps primarily – intended to protect the parties. Therefore, giving the family judge powers to protect the lives of the parties is not a problem – it is nothing less than that. The establishment of the bracelet requires the systematic opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which leads me to conclude by addressing two problems raised by your amendment. The first is the time limit for the issuance of protection orders. We will work earlier on the possibility of reducing it to six days. If a pre-return is necessary in all cases – including the one where the person accepts the bracelet – then we will waste a lot of time. But we have no time to waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u144	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u145	The second flaw refers to the need to think differently – this is the subject of the amendment that we will discuss later. As soon as the person concerned accepts the bracelet proposed by the civilian judge, there will be no problem. But in the vast majority of cases, he will refuse it – today, nine out of ten orders are challenged by the target people. We can't imagine that the violent companion will accept, with joy of heart, to wear a bracelet. But if the decision is made, it is necessary. Instead of the slowing, congested bridge that you wish to establish, we propose another one allowing, in case of refusal by the person concerned, to pass on to the criminal court, which may take other much more coercive measures, falling within its competence. I think this bridge is appropriate, the one you are proposing can only weaken the article, without achieving the objective you are aiming for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u146	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u147	I forgot to report a major element. We are not generalizing the anti-approximation bracelet to all protection orders. This bracelet will be – so to speak – the fatal weapon in a situation of extreme danger. The civil judge will use it only when the parties and the judge consider that there is a danger of life or death. When it comes to preserving a woman's life, there is no need for more precautions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u150	Mr Terlier, I am very attentive to the question of freedoms, the rights of each of the parties, and the success and implementation of the measures that we wish to take. That's what makes you look for a way to build bridges between the civilian judge and the criminal judge. Your amendments nevertheless seem to me to be satisfactory, since Article 1136-3 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that the public prosecutor is notified of all applications for protection orders and that he must issue a notice in accordance with Article 424 of the Code. Section 515-10 of the Civil Code also states that the prosecutor is notified of the date of the hearing so that he or she can attend. The existing provisions had therefore created bridges between civil and criminal magistrates. In the opinion it will issue to the family judge, the public prosecutor may therefore address the specific issue of the anti-approximation bracelet, if he considers it useful, and issue a specially reasoned opinion, especially if he so requests. Legally, bridges exist. It is now up to us to make them work. That is what most of our magistrates are committed to on the ground. I am very appreciative of the concern that inspired these amendments. But, as long as they seem to me satisfied, I suggest that you withdraw them. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u151	Would you like to withdraw your amendments, Mr Terlier?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u152	Yes, Mr. President. However, I would point out to the rapporteur that my idea was not to take excessive precautions, given the situation of the victims. However, we all hope that the anti-approximation bracelet can be ordered on our territories and, when we go too fast, the measures can become counterproductive. You may see this by hearing the reluctance of the judges in family matters – which I encourage you to consult, as well as the prosecutors – on this mechanism. Our colleague François Ruffin spoke earlier about "a legal tool without a craftsman to apply it". I fear that Article 1 will create a beautiful legal tool without an artisan to order it in concrete, on the ground – which would be the worst thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u153	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u154	With this amendment, we want to strengthen the cooperation of those involved in the fight against domestic violence. Since the judge may, as part of the issuance of the protection order, submit to the applicant a list of qualified legal persons capable of accompanying him during the duration of the order, we would like him to convene as well. At the time of the proceedings, a legal person qualified as an observer, who, being thus associated upstream, will be able to play a better role with the victim.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u156	I suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Of course, we share your desire that the victims be accompanied morally, technically, legally and physically, but the amendment poses a drafting problem. Upon receipt of the request for the protection order, the JAF will be obliged to systematically summon an external person, which it does not always do, since, in 99% of cases, victims are assisted by a lawyer who already provides support. A different wording would therefore be preferable. It would be better if the formula: "He could associate" with the one you propose: "He convokes".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u158	As you know, the protection order is issued by the JAF following a civil proceeding, which is – even its DNA – the case of the parties. This means that only they can apply to the judge and submit applications. Within our law, family matters are probably the ones that most affect the intimate. That is why the hearings are held in the Chamber of Council, i.e. in the judge's office, without an outside look. Only the parties, assisted by their counsel, and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as a representative of the public interest, may attend. If I understand your proposal intellectually, I fear that it does not respect the fundamental principles of this procedure. In my view, it could even have an opposite effect to the one you are looking for, preventing one of the parties from expressing themselves fully and freely. In addition, to ask the JAF to convene an association, so that it may be with the plaintiff, even before the adversarial debate has taken place with the defendant, seems to me to undermine the principle of impartiality and neutrality of the judge. Finally, I would point out that, in criminal proceedings, only associations which have been declared for at least five years and whose status relates directly to the criminal offences concerned may exercise the rights recognized to the civil party. For all these reasons, I would like the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u159	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u160	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, Madam Minister, for the clarifications that I understand, as you have understood the meaning of the amendment. In order to ensure that the provision is not of a systematic nature, and to prevent the word "convoke" from being included in the text, I propose to replace it, in a sub-amendment, with the word "invite". The judge would thus have the discretion to decide whether to involve the actors, possibly the associations, who will have to accompany the victim.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u161	I'm so sorry. It is not possible to amend an amendment orally. You can consider a sub-amendment for second reading. Your group may also request a session suspension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u162	If I am not mistaken, our debates are recorded. They shall be the subject of a written record. I would point out that the purpose of the sub-amendment would be to replace, in Amendment No 10, the word "convoke" with the word "invite".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u163	If you wish, I repeat that you can request a suspension of the sitting, but it is not possible to amend the amendments orally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u164	Before, we could do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u165	You can, if you wish, make a correction. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u166	If it is not possible to amend your amendment orally, I propose that we rework it during the shuttle. I'll make sure there's no loss online.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u167	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u168	I do not wish to discourage Mrs Karamanli, but, in any event, even if the word "invite" was replaced by the word "invite", the wording of the amendment would be contrary to the principles I recalled earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u169	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u170	If Members do not have the opportunity to amend their own amendments, the rapporteur may do so. It is still possible in this House to work in real time on an amendment! However, since the rapporteur is not sensitive to our proposal, the matter is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u171	Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 120, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u172	We propose that the judge be able to audition family members separately when the complainant wishes to do so. Currently, it is envisaged that hearings may take place separately, but in practice – probably for the sake of respecting the principle of adversariality – the perpetrator of the violence and the victim are summoned to the same hearing, even if some victims prefer to waive their rights rather than be confronted with their aggressor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u173	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u174	And I don't mention what can happen before the hearing in the common waiting rooms. We therefore consider it appropriate to make effective rather than purely theoretical the possibility of holding separate hearings, when the victim wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u176	I share your goal. It should be recalled that, often, when they appear before the magistrate, women are still under control, as long as a protection order has not been issued, and they have completed a real journey of the combatant before arriving before the JAF – which explains their lack of confidence in the republican institution. On this amendment, I rely on the wisdom of the House. However, I would like to draw your attention to one point: in the course of the debates, we will strengthen the prerogatives of the civil judge, within the framework of the protection order, to the point of giving him a quasi-penal role. For procedural reasons, this building should not be weakened. Legally and constitutionally, we can certainly give stronger arms to the family judge, but let us not reduce the equality of arms or, above all, the contradiction, which is fundamental. I am not a legal technician, whom I sometimes find secondary, but I would find it a pity that we would compromise, for procedural reasons, a mechanism which we wish to strengthen. If I were you, Mr. Little, I would withdraw the amendment. For me, given the work you have done on this subject and the sense you give it, I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u178	I understand your proposal, Mr. Little. Sometimes the confrontation between the victim of violence and the perpetrator of such violence can be extremely painful. Nevertheless, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the possibility for the judge to hear the parties separately is opened by the Civil Code. It seems to me that it is necessary to leave it to the judge to assess its necessity, depending on the situation. I therefore suggest that you withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u179	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u180	I agree with the rapporteur. In civil proceedings, it is imperative to respect the principle of adversariality. The purpose of this text is to enable measures to be taken as quickly as possible to protect women victims of violence. Hearing the parties separately would be a waste of time, since adherence to the adversarial principle would require a record of the statements of both parties, so that each party could become aware of those of the other. This procedure would make it possible to take interim measures in an emergency without wasting any time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u181	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u182	I can hear your remarks, but they don't convince me. In fact, a significant proportion of women give up the procedure because they fear being confronted by their aggressor. In order to promote the use of justice, in order to ensure that women victims of violence are more involved in the judicial process, the complainants must be given the opportunity to be heard separately, rather than in joint hearings, which help to deter complaints, lead to problems being brought to the fore and ultimately enable the suffering of victims of violence to continue. I understand your comments on the importance of the adversarial principle. However, in this case, I believe that it is possible to institute a procedure which, although different, respects the principles of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u183	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u184	Earlier, during the suspension, I had a telephone conversation with someone who was reacting about me. She hesitates to institute a trial, for fear of having to meet the perpetrator of the assaults. That's concrete. Madam Minister, you say that the form of hearings must remain at the discretion of the magistrates. However, they work in a tense environment, have a high workload; the procedures are increasingly mechanical. If the complainants are not given the opportunity to make a procedural choice, I fear that an automatic approach is necessary: for the sake of saving time and because the justice budget will not increase much, hearings will never be separated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u185	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u186	I am very sensitive to the concerns behind this amendment. Victims always fear the moment of confrontation, in both civil and criminal cases. However, it is important to recall the importance of respecting a principle, which is valid in both civil and criminal proceedings, that of adversarial proceedings. The anti-approximation bracelet will strengthen the prerogatives of the family judge. Let us therefore be vigilant and concerned about the observance of this principle. As this will limit freedom – although in a form attenuated from certain criminal sanctions – we must remain cautious. The principle of respect for adversarial rights has cardinal value in our law. It allows everyone to defend themselves, whether criminal or not. Confrontations, whether criminal or civil, can unfortunately never be avoided, because they are necessary for the manifestation of the truth. The key issue is the proper support of victims. Those who refuse to file a complaint – for reasons which, moreover, belong to them – must be respected. There is a need to strengthen support and allow judges, who are very sensitive to these issues, to play their role in adapting to particular situations. Jean Terlier has already raised the issue of gathering evidence, which is important in this type of case. Lawyers, magistrates and other professionals need to be made aware of the signs that a confrontation would not be appropriate. Let us count here on the professionalism of associations, lawyers and magistrates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u187	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u188	The principle of adversarialism is one of the first to be learned in law schools, that is true. However, I would point out that there are procedures in our civil law that ignore this principle, for example in family matters, or in order to pay – the opposing party keeping, in these cases, the possibility of challenging the decision of the judge. The principle of adversarialism is therefore not absolute in our law. I think that, in the emergency situations we are talking about, we could ignore them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u189	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 160, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u190	The purpose of this amendment is to insert in Article 1e r the following subparagraph: "As a result of these hearings, the representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office may take all necessary measures in accordance with Article 40-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. » The aim is to bridge the gap between civil and criminal law. It must be ensured that, after the initiation of a civil protection order procedure, public action can be brought immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u192	We share a common will, Madam Member, to create a bridge between the civilian judge and the criminal judge, to ensure better transmission of cases between them. I would ask you, however, to withdraw your amendment in favour of the one I will defend earlier, not because it is mine, but because it goes further than yours in this direction. Your amendment is intended to allow files to be forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office "following the hearings". At that time, protection orders have not yet been issued. Amendment No 65, which we shall be defending just now, tends to blow up a lock in the current law, which prohibits the family judge from transmitting a case to the prosecutor if no minor in criminal matters is involved. The aim of the amendment is to make systematic, in the case of a protection order, the transmission of the case to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which will decide whether to prosecute. You are touching on an essential problem that we will try to solve with our amendment, which I think is more ambitious and systematic. We know that a majority of protection order procedures do not lead to criminal proceedings, sometimes because victims consider that, being protected, criminal proceedings are not necessary – they have the haunting of procedures that follow for years. In any case, we can agree on one point: any case which has given rise to the issuance of a protection order must be examined in criminal proceedings: it is then up to the prosecutor to carry out his office and decide whether to prosecute. Such an examination must be systematized. These women are under a grip that pushes them to abandon the battle before it's over. We agree on the substance. The amendment that I will be defending earlier is broader and better suited to our common objective. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u194	The same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u195	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u196	I agree in substance with Sophie Auconia and fully agree with the rapporteur. The debate we have on the application of Article 40 of the Code of Criminal Procedure shows that we need to change the culture, processes and channels that prevail in dealing with such cases. I will defend Amendment No 59 as amended, which would increase the power of the prosecutor, by granting him the possibility of launching a form of stay in such cases. During the various hearings and meetings with prosecutors and lawyers, it became clear that there was a need to change culture in order to deal with these dramatic cases. Civil-criminal gateways must be easier to access, and their use must be more effective. I will not vote in favour of Mrs Auconia's amendment, but I think it is in that direction. Let us thoroughly review the procedures used to deal with these cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u197	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u198	We all want to make criminal procedure more effective, to facilitate access to it, to create a link between civil and criminal proceedings. I'm glad. If the representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office is present, he will be able to decide more effectively, more quickly. This will improve the situation and allow for an effective relationship between civil and criminal law. I hear that a more ambitious amendment will be considered later. I therefore withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u199	[[Applause on all benches]] I note that the vote has been taken unanimously. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u200	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u201	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u202	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u203	I call Mr Terlier to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u204	The protection order is subject to a double condition of issue: in order to be taken by the family court, it must not only establish proof of the violence committed against the victim, but also, cumulatively, establish that the victim is in danger. This cumulative double condition is laid down in sections 515-9 et seq. of the Civil Code. Today, this protection order is under-used – as has been said – but above all, it is being censored in almost every other case. The amendment aims to make this cumulative condition – establishing the alleged violence and the danger situation – an alternative condition. As Ms. Keeper of the Seals said, the medical certificate of the alleged violence may be ill-written. In the Grenelle, we were aware of the violence in Perpignan, of the poignant testimony of a woman, Léa, whose protection order had been rejected because, despite the uncontested violence she had established, the family court judge had held that, having left the marital home and left her son there, she was not in danger on the sole ground that she had returned to her home to maintain the connection with her son. Such situations are no longer acceptable. If we want to unlock the procedure of the protection order, we need to relax the conditions; that is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u205	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u206	Request for withdrawal. I will inform you of my personal opinion: I understand the problem raised by Mr Terlier all the more as we will try to resolve it further. However, let us not confuse the protection order with the criminal procedure. In the extremely courageous situation of the woman that you are talking about and that we have heard, it is up to the criminal court to decide once the acts of violence have ceased. Above all, the mechanism of the protection order should not be used for anything other than emergency protection. In short, we are convinced by the following organisation: the protection order must, in six days, allow the protection of the woman in danger, with all the authorizations granted in the framework of the procedure and the enhanced powers of the civil judge; On the other hand, if prosecutions are to be brought out of the extreme urgency of protection, they must be brought in criminal proceedings. You point out the insufficient link between civil and criminal matters. I repeat: this has been the subject of a previous amendment and another amendment which I will defend at a later stage, because there is indeed a need for a systematic link. In the meantime, I ask for the amendment under discussion to be withdrawn, because, in the case you are quoting and in all those we have in mind, it is up to the criminal court to decide – and to decide harshly – and not to the family judge by a civil order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u207	For the sake of clarity of our debates, Mr rapporteur, can you clarify whether this is your personal opinion or that of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u208	Request for withdrawal on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u210	I also suggest that your amendment be withdrawn, Mr Terlier. The mechanism of the protection order allows the family judge to deal urgently with the situation of the victim of violence who is in danger. Two conditions must be characterized: likely violence on the one hand and a current situation of danger on the other for the plaintiff or his children. If I understand that correctly, your amendment is intended to remove the second condition relating to the existence of a danger in order to allow for the issuance of a protection order in the event of the likely commission of violence without in so far as a situation of danger is characterized. However, it seems to me that the emergency circuit, which is derogating from the rules of civil procedure, must be justified by the requirement of a danger requiring immediate protection measures. Your proposal, honourable Member, would result in the Family Court issuing protection orders for acts of violence that may have been committed several months earlier, even in the absence of a repetition, outside of any danger or threat of danger. That is why I consider it necessary to retain this double requirement, which is the basis for the derogation procedure from the protection order, which is an emergency procedure initiated in the face of a danger in order to protect victims of domestic violence. I therefore suggest that the amendment be withdrawn, while recalling that, in any event, the criminal procedure remains naturally open to dealing with issues of violence, even past ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u211	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u212	I should like to make it clear, Mr rapporteur, that my remarks were limited to the protection order, and therefore to the civilian aspect. I understand the arguments of the seal keeper and will withdraw my amendment, which, it is true, contains a somewhat abrupt proposal to make alternatives to the conditions that are now cumulative. However, I am convinced that we need to reflect – perhaps in the Grenelle framework that Mrs Schiappa wants – on the conditions under which these protection orders can be made, because they are only issued in one in two cases. It is imperative that solutions be found to increase the use of this mechanism by family judges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u213	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 63 and 76. The rapporteur, Mr Aurélien Pradié, has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u214	This is a very important point on which we will work together here in the sitting. There is a hole in the civil racket: the so-called "boyfriends" relationships – several amendments refer to them – are not covered by the scope of the law. In criminal matters, the problem does not arise: the law covers all possible situations with as much clarity as judicial practice. In civil law, the case law – I am aware of this argument – has never prevented the decision of a protection order on the grounds that the victim is a "girlfriend", but the law does not make it clear. We are many to propose to clarify to the civil what exists in the penal system. I know that legal and technical arguments will be opposed to us to say that this is pointless, since case law already allows it. However, we are here in a forum that passes the law, not that makes case law. It is therefore useful that we clarify the law in civil matters. That is where there is a point to be improved. First of all, the law does not specify, in civil matters, the old or present nature of the cohabitation or relationship as described. This first problem needs to be addressed in order to make it clear in the law, so in civil matters, that even if relations are old, it is possible to make a protection order because even in the absence of cohabitation or if the couple is separated at the moment, the violence remains. Once again, the first problem to be resolved is the possible seniority of the relationship. Second point: the definition of cohabitation. The civil code is quite clear: cohabitation is defined by a common life and – very important precision – "stable and continuous". As for a temporary "girlfriend", if you allow me the expression, it is difficult to consider that the common life is stable and continuous. If we want to cover the whole field of relations between a woman and a man, or whatever the configuration, it is necessary to clarify not only the seniority but also the nature of the relationship. However, it is a very complex exercise because everyone will want to describe a relationship differently, sometimes ephemeral, sometimes intense or even punctual; It is therefore necessary to find a general formulation. The amendment we are proposing is intended to clarify Article 515-9 of the Civil Code by the following wording: "between persons who have previously had a relationship", the words "have previously" dealing with the problem of seniority and the expression "couple relations" seem to cover the whole of the debate. I understand that the position of the Government is not exactly the same. I would therefore like to propose a solution to ensure that this work has not been carried out in vain. Mr Stéphane Peu will defend in a moment an amendment which seems to meet the legitimate requirements of the Chancery, but which only solves the question – that is already a lot – of the seniority of the relationship, without regulating that of its nature, given the correction to be made concerning the cohabitation which corresponds to a stable and continuous common life. In order to move forward on this important subject, I therefore propose that my amendment be withdrawn and that Mr Little's amendment be sub-amended by calling in his personal capacity for support. This will resolve the question of the seniority of the relationship through the amendment and my sub-amendment will introduce the notion of a relationship in order to cover all the legitimate demands made by various colleagues on all benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u215	That's a smart job!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u216	I therefore propose, once again, that my amendment be withdrawn with the subamendment of Mr Little's amendment. I apologise for doing so in the immediate future, but we may miss a very important point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u217	That is the point of these parliamentary debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u219	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u220	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I agree with the work done in committee and in public sittings, because it is important to cover all situations, from marriage to cohabitation, the definition of which needs to be clarified. The amendment, in a familiar way, says "boyfriend", encompasses all forms of marriage, whether old or present. It was essential to clarify those provisions as best as possible. I welcome the parliamentary work in public on this important issue. I withdraw the amendment in favour of joint work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u221	I have before me an amendment No 119 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 176. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u222	Mr rapporteur, I thank you for the proposal you have just made on the amendment that I am presenting with my colleague Stéphane Peu. It amends section 515-9 of the Civil Code, so that the protection order can be issued "including in the absence of cohabitation". Of course, as has been recalled in committee, magistrates issue protection orders even in the absence, past or present, of cohabitation – this concerns about 13% of these orders – but it is necessary that the civil code explicitly provide for this. I look forward to the rapporteur's proposal for a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u223	The rapporteur, Mr Aurélien Pradié, has the floor to support sub-amendment No 176.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u224	It complements your amendment, which addresses the issue of seniority of relationships, adding the words: "and in the case of a relationship". This addition completely solves the problem. This wording may not be perfect, the parliamentary shuttle will allow the work to continue, but I would like to keep these two aspects in the text, if not to correct them later. Forgetting one of these two aspects would be a problem in the rest of the legislative work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u225	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u226	The committee has asked for Amendment No 119 to be withdrawn, to which I give a favourable opinion for the reasons I have just mentioned. It did not have time to consider sub-amendment No 176, which I am obviously in favour of.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u227	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u228	The subject is very important, since it is a question of specifying to which types of couples can apply protection orders. Mr rapporteur, I do not agree with your view that civil standards would include "holes in the racket" to use your expression. It seems to me that the case law provides for these definitions, but perhaps we will not have the same opinion on the subject. The aim of the various amendments is to cover all situations: couples living together, those who have just separated, those who have been separated for a long time, those who have not lived together, etc. However, the proposals which have been made, for some of them in any case, may run counter to this objective, creating confusion and destabilising known and established concepts, in particular by restricting the scope of the notion of a couple, as defined by civil case law. As you pointed out in the amendment you originally tabled, rapporteur, cohabitation is defined in Article 515-8 of the Civil Code as "a de facto union, characterized by a common life of stability and continuity". However, the case law appreciates this definition with great flexibility and extends it to many situations of fact. Family judges thus issue protection orders to couples who do not cohabit. You yourself pointed out this when you said that 13% of protection orders issued in 2016 did not mention divorce, no dissolution of PACS, no decohabitation, but only a separation of the couple. The case law thus gives the notion of a couple a broad meaning, which makes it possible to adapt to any type of sentimental relationship. In their decisions, the judges note and hold that cohabitation is a legal status which covers very different realities, presenting all the unorganized forms of common life: without cohabitation and without community of life, with the only existence of stable and continuous relations, relationship of couple without full-time sharing of the same domicile, union recognized in the absence of genuine cohabitation, etc. The judgments of the Courts of Appeal reflect this diversity of situations and the flexible and broad approach adopted by the French judge. The Civil Code, in Article 515-8, enshrines this position, confirmed by the Court of Cassation. This jurisprudential conception goes back to the etymology of the term "cohabitation", which means "cohabitation community", which must obviously be distinguished from a community of life, understood as a cohabitation. Beyond judicial decisions, the Code of Social Action and the Family also retains a broad appreciation of the couple, since the circumstance that one of the members resides abroad is not sufficient to consider the one residing in France as single. There is therefore, I believe, no legal difficulty on this point: the protection order is already applicable to any type of sentimental relationship, whatever its nature. We must ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that our writings, when they do not add anything to existing law, do not call into question established, flexible and protective jurisprudence, regardless of the reality and the forms of marriage life. On the basis of this case-law, I had delivered a favourable opinion on Amendment No 119, originally tabled by Mr Little; I concede that the text presents an imbalance, since Article 515-9 of the Civil Code refers to "violence within the couple or by a former spouse, a former partner bound by a civil solidarity pact or a former partner". You considered it important, Mr. MP, that the law specify that cohabitation was not a condition of the protection order and that it could therefore be issued after the separation of a couple. The wording you proposed echoed that contained in the Penal Code, which is why I thought I would give an opinion in favour of your amendment, preferring it in some way to those of the rapporteur and Mrs Boyer, who presented the difficulties which I have just mentioned before you. If my opinion is in favour of Amendment No 119, it is not in favour of Subamendment No 176. Indeed, you propose the formula – I'm a little confused, but I hope everyone follows –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u229	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] We're used to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u230	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u231	No, it's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u232	... "and in the case of a couple relationship," but the definition of "couple relationship" does not seem to me to be legal: we are talking about the couple, but not about a couple relationship, which can be sentimental, but not legal. The concept of cohabitation is already the subject of a well-established legal and legislative definition, and it seems to me that the concept of "couple relationship" may lead to confusion. That is why I am in favour of the amendment but against the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u233	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u234	Thank you, Minister, for your clear explanations on a complicated subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u235	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u236	Absolutely. Mr rapporteur, by voting on the amendment and rejecting the sub-amendment, are we sure that the protection order can be issued for a relationship with or without a previous or present cohabitation? We must cover both the past and the present, and I would like you to assure us of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u237	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u238	These are the so-called "boyfriend" amendments, which have been very active in our debates. I hear the will of our colleague Stéphane Few to align civil law with criminal law, and it is better to do so in this context. That is why I ask you to follow the advice of the minister and to adopt the amendment after rejecting the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u239	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u240	There is no difference, Madam Keeper of the Seals, between your opinion and the one I am trying to defend. You are the guardian of the seals, you defend the case law and you are holding a legitimate speech for a Minister of Justice. You say that the case law covers all situations and that it is not necessary to bring into the law the clarification that I suggest. Nevertheless, in this Chamber we also have a duty of legibility and pedagogy to fulfil. Your speech is legitimate, but it is equally the wish of parliamentarians not to be satisfied with the jurisprudence and to bring the law into line with it. This is our collective objective, as shown by the fact that the amendments that were tabled came from almost every bench. That is proof of a problem. It does not seem illegitimate to me that parliamentarians want to clarify the law and refuse to satisfy themselves with the jurisprudence. That is the initial observation. In order to clarify the practice and the law, we must solve the problem of the seniority of the relationship, which the amendment by my colleague Stéphane Peu solves – in fact, by giving a favourable opinion to this amendment, the keeper of the seals, you have considered well that the intervention of the legislator was useful – and that, just as important, relating to the nature of the relations. The character of seniority, as defined, only clings to the cohabitation, which is the lightest form described in the civil code, because it is a question of a "continuous and stable" relationship. But the passenger girlfriend or the passenger boyfriend does not fall within the scope of the law. I do not wish to overburden this last with unnecessary words, but we must cover both the seniority and the nature of the relationship. That is why I have tabled, a little hastyly, a sub-amendment which, I believe, does not pose a major problem and whose drafting can evolve during the parliamentary shuttle. One might imagine that the use of this new expression of "couple relationship" disorganizes other legal norms, which would mention only cohabitation. We have checked this point: there is no problem of coordination with sub-amendment No 176. The occurrences of the term "couple" in the other legislative codes are reflected in the cases of rental expulsion, as well as in the consequences of certain provisions relating to the law of aliens. On these two subjects, it is understood that concubinage is a prerequisite. In other words, to be very precise, the sub-amendment does not disorganise any major provision of our law. It merely clarifies Amendment No 119. I hope that we will adopt it, so that we can improve it within the framework of the parliamentary shuttle, rather than brutally reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u241	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u242	In any case, I welcome the work of legislative construction that we are doing. The aim of the law is to improve what exists and to provide better protection for citizens, by providing for the widest possible scope of application. In this case, there are holes in the racket, to use the expression used by the Minister, in the form of two deficiencies: the seniority and the nature of the relationship. With regard to the seniority of the relationship, I believe that everyone here is in favour of the adoption of Amendment No 119 by our colleague, Little, broadly similar to those defended earlier by our colleagues Pradie and Valérie Boyer. There are no difficulties with this. The question is: should we consecrate the notion of a relationship, which the rapporteur has pointed out is legally recognised? You can't say she's out of a hat. The courts had to devote it and give it a legal scope. Do we, as legislators, need to consolidate jurisprudence and include it in the law? I believe that adopting the rapporteur's sub-amendment would provide security, while at the same time keeping in mind the objective of this bill, which is to ensure better protection for women. I therefore call on the House to vote not only on Mr Little's amendment, but also on Mr Pradié's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u243	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u244	Mr rapporteur, I agree with you that we must continue to work on this issue. However, based on the relationship, victim protection is weakened. If Mr Stéphane Peu's amendment clarifies the text, I believe that your sub-amendment weakens it. How to define a relationship? Does a woman who sees a man regularly fit into a relationship? I doubt it. Yet she may need protection, if this man becomes dangerous to her, for example by jealousy. It seems to me that the adoption of the sub-amendment would considerably weaken the ability of judges to deal with the reality of situations that may arise. Violence referred to as "spousal violence" is most often perpetrated by a man against a woman. They do not necessarily fit into the sense of conjugality that we give to them. The sub-amendment should not be voted on. On the other hand – I agree with the rapporteur on this point – we must work on this subject, as part of the new reading of the text, in order to arrive at a satisfactory wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u245	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u246	I also welcome the work we are doing here. We are indeed making the law, with the listening and concern of each other. On all benches, we try, on a very serious subject, to draw up the law as clear as possible, so that justice can be done in all situations, of which we all know that they can be very diverse. My amendment clarifies certain provisions. As the Minister pointed out, jurisprudence covers situations that are not provided for in the legislative codes. It is always better, in the context of their elaboration, to clarify their provisions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u247	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u248	... so that they are engraved in the marble of the law, written, and that everyone can refer to it and lean on it, in all circumstances, when it is a question of saying the right. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] It seems to me that the rapporteur's sub-amendment, with which I have touched on the subject, complements my amendment usefully by clarifying not only the notions of duration of the relationship and cohabitation, but also the nature of the relationship and the couple. For our part, we will obviously vote on our amendment, but also on the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u249	That makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u250	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u251	The IUD, Action and Independent Group supports the sub-amendment. Although we understand the precautions set out by our colleagues against it – as well as by you, Madam Minister, who have been very clear – it seems to me that our well-understood interest is to consolidate the case law, in favour of a much broader meaning than that of Article 515-9 of the Civil Code in force. Moreover, our work will provide clarifications to the judges responsible for applying – if the sub-amendment is adopted – the extension of the definition of marriage relations, which go beyond traditional relationships – marriage and cohabitation. This is the case when it comes to "girlfriend." The expression "couple relationship" seems to me to be the most precise. In order to make the right more protective and to broaden its scope, we have every interest in voting on the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u252	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u253	The amendment defended by Mr Stéphane Peu has the merit of offering a clarification guaranteeing the application by the judges of the conception of the text, which is not nothing, not according to a jurisprudential logic, but according to a logic consisting of engraved it in the marble. This is indeed the work we are doing, it seems to me: to change the law towards a greater recognition of cases of domestic violence, and violence against women in general. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] I call on our House to be wise in adopting the amendment and Mr Pradie's sub-amendment. We will thus enter into the detailed menu and elaborate the law as close as possible to what we can engrave in the marble. Admittedly, case law exists, but our job is to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u254	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll give me two minutes of your attention...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u256	Even a little more if necessary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u257	...I'd like to read you the article we want to change. This is article 515-9 of the Civil Code, which is written as follows, at the moment I speak to you: "When violence committed within the couple or by a former spouse, a former partner bound by a civil solidarity pact or a former partner endangers the person who is the victim, one or more children, the family judge may issue an emergency protection order to the latter". As far as the notions of marriage and cohabitation are concerned, I recalled earlier that the case law is very extensive. It seems to me, I sincerely say, that if we introduce into the text the new concept of a relationship – which is not strictly legal – first, we are opening an endless judicial debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u258	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u259	...secondly, this will be the subject of countless volumes of academic doctrine aimed at defining it – which is very good, as it will provide my colleagues with an opportunity to reflect –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u260	They don't miss it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u261	... and, above all, thirdly, we destabilize the case law, which is in favour of persons seeking a protection order, thus taking the risk of destabilization likely to restrict the number of persons to whom one could issue one. Is the notion of a relationship not narrower than that of a couple, in the sense of case law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u262	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u263	Let us pay attention to the law that we are drafting, which is said with great respect for MPs who want to improve the situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] I will conclude by recalling that no application for protection has ever been rejected on the grounds that the reality experienced by the person who introduced it would not correspond to the legal definition of the couple.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u264	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u265	Since the opening of our debates, each task, through its contribution, has been to broaden the scope of the protection order a little bit. I would like to refer to the definition of violence and danger, along the lines of Amendment No 142, which Mr Terlier defended earlier. The law provides that the protection order must be made when the violence within the couple endangers the person who is the victim of it, suggesting that certain violence – particularly harassment – does not constitute a threat to the spouse who is the object of it. Thus, this concept is largely left to the judges' discretion, with a high degree of subjectivity. In order to broaden the acceptance of this amendment, our colleague Olga Givernet and I propose, through this amendment, to take into account the consequences of acts of violence, such as threats, psychological pressure and confiscation of means of payment or identity documents. Such acts have consequences for the living conditions of the victim – and that is the definition of harassment. I have proposed in committee a more precise definition than that based on danger. I have taken into account the observations made at that time. I therefore propose to offer the judge an additional opportunity to broaden his assessment of the danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u267	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice. We fully agree with what our colleague has said. New forms of violence must be taken into account. However, it turns out that the text we are discussing deals with violence in general, which completely opens its scope. As I said in committee – even though you have slightly changed the wording of your amendment, dear colleague – I believe that the nature of the violence poses the risk of excluding all situations that do not check the envisaged boxes. If this bill did not deal with violence in general, I would have adopted the same approach as yours – as I have just done, so that the law would be clearer. The law in force, based on the likely violence, is very broad. It therefore seems to me that the amendment is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u269	Same opinion. I will give some figures reflecting the reality. Currently, 70 per cent of applicants for protection orders report psychological violence, 85 per cent report physical violence and 6 per cent report sexual violence. The concept of violence, as defined, is broad and refers to all forms of violence. I am still afraid, when we consider enumerating and naming things, that this will restrict the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u270	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u271	I understand that the adoption of my amendment would degrade the definition and the assessment of the danger. Of course, the amendment is satisfied by the law. In practice, when it comes to judges' decisions, we need to make very clear statements. Violence is a danger. Judges must bear in mind, in making their assessments, that any violence is a danger. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u272	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u273	This amendment follows the same logic: to facilitate procedures, to oil each wheel. Today, women victims are not always well received, do not know what path their complaint will follow or how the process will end. We therefore want to make this journey more fluid, and to take into account all the violence. By this amendment, we propose that the family judge be automatically seized whenever a complaint of violence – whatever the nature of the violence, physical, psychological, sexual, economic, etc. – is filed. – exercised by a spouse, a partner, a current or former partner, has been deposited. This automaticity will ensure that the complaint is followed up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u275	The Commission's opinion is unfavourable, and in my personal capacity I will deliver the same opinion. We will have this discussion on several occasions, and I believe it is essential. Your concern is entirely legitimate: women call for assistance from the police or the gendarmerie, but this does not always entail consequences; It's an indisputable fact. You're thinking of handrails that are ultimately useless. We'll talk about it again. But we must distinguish between the different procedures. My conviction is that the path of protection of an emergency woman should not necessarily begin with a complaint. That's not what you care about either! What matters is that the woman is protected, and then there is recourse to criminal law. The filing of a complaint does not necessarily have to be the only gateway to this journey, which your amendment tends to do, in a way: indeed, as you are familiar with the subject, you know that the stage of filing a complaint is often the most difficult. These women often tell us: it is often easier for them to file only a hand in hand, to go only to the family judge, without going as far as the complaint. Because it has consequences. Women face almost immediate confrontation after filing a complaint, and – as we said earlier – this is not what they want. In our very imperfect organization, when you file a complaint, there is a good chance that the alleged perpetrator of the violence will be warned within the next few hours – at a time when the woman is still not protected, since she could have had the brilliant idea of filing a protection order, but she often did not have it, because of the opacity of the system... The risk is, therefore, to put women at even greater risk; and, today, it takes almost a month and a half for the protection order to take effect. The filing of a complaint must not become the exclusive gateway for a woman to be protected. I believe deeply in the idea of making access to family matters easier for the judge to issue a protection order, because that is the urgency. Second, a systematic bridge is needed for all protection orders to result in criminal treatment. It is rather to this organization that I believe, when the complaint sometimes puts women even more in danger – that is not your objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u277	Unfavorable opinion. I understand, of course, your intention: you want complaints to be dealt with immediately. However, your proposal faces legal difficulties. The automatic transmission of the complaint to the family judge contravenes a fundamental rule of civil justice: the civil judge cannot self-register; he must be brought before one of the parties to the civil trial. This is a fundamental principle of our civil trial, which your amendment would bring down. The police station cannot seize the JAF. In addition, complaints are transmitted to the public prosecutor, who may, on the one hand, prosecute the facts if he deems it necessary, and, on the other hand, apply to the family judge for a protection order, with the consent of the party. In the circular of 9 May last, having observed that these "bridges", in the words of Jean Terlier, were not thrown out sufficiently frequently, I asked the prosecutors to think well to refer the matter to the family judge. I repeat, therefore, that your proposal does not appear to me to be legally admissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u278	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u279	It is a terrible count that our rapporteur reminded us at the beginning of our work: one hundred and seventeen women – and even one hundred and eighteen, they slide me – have been killed since the beginning of 2019 by their spouse or ex-spouse. The question that I am asking myself at this time, and that is the question of national representation, is how many of these cases we could have avoided. A significant proportion of these 180 women had filed complaints, had filed handrails. Of these 108 femicides, therefore, there are a significant number of cases that were foreseeable, but have not been notified. At this moment, I think, not without emotion, of a particular case that we knew in Lille last spring: a mother of family had, at the beginning of the year, filed a complaint for death threats against her; By his ex-spouse, they had been brought back to him by a third party. She filed a complaint, but nothing happened; his assailant himself, later, went to the police station to file a complaint against her, for harassment. He's never been worried. In May, she completed her complaint with a common hand: her ex-spouse, who had nothing to do there at first hand, was nearby her workplace. Five days later, she was kidnapped at her workplace and taken to her executioner's home. She was murdered, ripped off from her children, her loved ones, who knew she was threatened. His family told me that after the facts, the machine obviously deployed with formidable efficiency; Very quickly, the alleged murderer was arrested. Today, he and his accomplices are in prison, but she won't come back. It is part of cases that were predictable, and have not been notified. In reviewing the file, the investigators agreed with the family that there were many warning signals – certainly, in the legal sense, they were weak signals, since the threats had not been addressed directly to the family.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u280	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u281	Nevertheless, I am told that the procedure has been followed. National representation, the legislator we are, cannot be content with the idea that a woman who was threatened is murdered, but that we are told that the procedure has been followed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u282	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u283	We must fill in all the loopholes, and that is the meaning of our discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u284	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u285	I too would like to make a contribution to this debate with the help of another case which I have in mind, and which is almost opposite to the one described by Mr Quatennens. I think, like our rapporteur, that by making the lodging of a complaint the entry into the procedure, we risk producing catastrophic effects in some cases. It happens that complaints are withdrawn under pressure from the perpetrator – as he is immediately informed, and sometimes he exercises a real psychological grip on his victim. I recently received a woman at my permanence who had difficulty in making it clear that she should not withdraw this complaint, otherwise nothing would happen. The amendment could therefore have effects diametrically opposed to those which its authors wished to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u286	I have before me an amendment No 115, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 170. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u287	This amendment and the subsequent amendment, No 116, are intended to raise the problem of our functional organization. We have been discussing the wording of the law since this morning, but we have all recalled that what matters is that the different actors on the ground work together in the same way. From the work that I have been able to do, it is clear that the magistrates want a focal point on violence against women to be appointed, both in the public prosecutor's office and at the headquarters. The same applies to the police and gendarmerie. I am aware that the drafting of these amendments is not perfect – you all know what conditions we need to work under. But it seems to me that the appointment of a reference, which would make it possible to establish links, is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u288	I call Mrs Maud Petit to support sub-amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u289	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and GDR groups]] First of all, I would like to welcome the quality of the discussions we have been holding since this morning; They are soothed and constructive. I thank our rapporteur for the excellent work he has done so far, as well as for the quality of his answers. I agree with this amendment; My sub-amendment is only intended to propose a small change in terms. I propose to rename the referent "spousal violence" as the referent "spousal violence". Indeed, it is important to recall that in the majority of cases domestic violence also affects the family; children, in particular, suffer the direct consequences of such violence. They are witnesses, and sometimes suffer as well. We will never repeat it enough: they too are victims. This aspect must be taken into account by the courts. The term "intra-family" therefore seems to me to be more appropriate to the reality of the situation and the decisions that will result from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u291	The committee has delivered an opinion against Amendment No 115. It did not consider the sub-amendment. In my personal capacity, however, I will issue a wisdom opinion on Amendment No 115 and ask for the sub-amendment to be withdrawn. On the substance, we fully agree – the discussions we will have on the amendment of the title of the bill will show that. On the other hand, with regard to specialized magistrates, I fear that the term "intra-family", which could include children, is problematic: we have a child judge, whose mission is considerable. In this particular case, the term "spousal violence" seems preferable to me. On the other hand, I agree with our colleagues: the law must be operational. It's a major difficulty. It is certainly, moreover, what makes the mission of parliamentarians singular, which also consists in ensuring that, after their legislative work, things follow. That is also why I still find it difficult to satisfy myself with jurisprudence and regulations, because we are here to vote the law. Without pretending to be the spokesman for the Government, I believe that he has announced provisions on referents. It is probably not pointless to give them an anchor in the law, but this amendment presents some drafting problems. This will be even more useful for prosecutors than for the judges at the seat, given what we have mentioned earlier, in particular actual shortcomings, such as the classification of complaints considered to be part of an agitated banal discussion within a couple rather than domestic violence. The opinion of the committee is therefore against your amendment; Mine is a wisdom advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u293	I agree with you, of course, that there is a need to establish references in each jurisdiction, since we have made it clear that, because of the requirement of proximity, these cases would continue to be dealt with in each jurisdiction. However, I will make two observations. First of all, it seems to me that this change in the organization of the courts does not fall within the scope of the law. Our judicial organization already has references, such as the terrorist referents, or the referents for the fight against discrimination. They were not even instituted by decrees, but by circulars: it is really a matter of organization, which is not a matter of the law. There are also specialized focal points for combating domestic violence in each prosecutor's office, including the Public Prosecutor's Office. By a circular dated 9 May 2019, I recalled the importance of these referents and the need for them to receive compulsory specialized training. So we have, in a way, already satisfied your requirement. That is why I ask you to withdraw your amendment and obviously cannot be in favour of the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u294	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u295	I am rather in favour of this amendment. Yesterday I was in my constituency with Mrs Schiappa and we met several associations, as well as victims. We were able to measure how difficult it is for victims to find references, benchmarks, and access to law and justice. The clear appointment of focal points for these issues in the courts will facilitate the action of victims tomorrow. It will help to communicate that there are people in the courts who are willing to listen to them carefully. It is very complicated for victims to file a complaint or to apply to the family judge; They don't know who to turn to, and all this is extremely complex. Therefore, it seems to me a good idea that a person should be given special responsibility for these matters. Let us not forget, of course, the needs of network operation. Yesterday we launched a national platform called Direct Law. I wanted to talk about it this morning, because I think it's a great tool, which I hope it will receive from the department the support it needs to be developed everywhere. Thanks to this platform, every victim will have access to all the professionals present in the vicinity – lawyers and other professionals – which will help him to carry out the right steps and knock on the right doors. But all of this obviously requires resources. The question of means was raised this morning and will be raised this afternoon, particularly with regard to the development of the anti-approximation bracelet, which is at the heart of the proposal for a law by Aurélien Pradié. The Minister announced yesterday that EUR 5.6 million would be spent on the development of this scheme. Could you, Madam Minister, confirm this commitment? Spain has invested €5 million in two years to develop this bracelet. Can you confirm to us that, behind these beautiful words, tomorrow there will be acts, financial acts, and that these 5.6 million euros will be released? This budget is essential if the bill is to have all its effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u296	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u297	I see no problem in including in the law the existence of referents. In fact, we have included in the Public Service Act the presence of ethical references in different jurisdictions. This would therefore not be the first time that we would impose new forms of organisation by law on our administrations, since they are an issue. And if, in the end, this function already existed in the courts, we would not create it by amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u298	It exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u299	Not enough, especially since the referent often has his own profession, his daily work. I understand the trick: the amendment specifies that these referents will be appointed "constantly staffed" in order to avoid being declared inadmissible under Article 40. That is the difficulty: we need additional resources. That is why we proposed the creation of a specialized chamber, whose judges would devote themselves exclusively to this type of violence, after having been trained for it. I would like to go back to the previous point: the information that victims need to know so that they can have a point of reference and find themselves there. That is why we proposed in the previous amendment that the complaint – when there is a complaint – be automatically forwarded to the family judge; not that it is necessary to file a complaint in order to have access to this magistrate, but in order for him to be immediately aware of it and to be able to propose to the victim the mechanism of protection order. I'm not sure that all the victims are aware of it, or even that it is the case of all the police and gendarmes in the country. This is what we are trying to achieve: the creation of emergency procedures that are quick and effective, and where everyone can find themselves there, be it the magistrates, the police and the gendarmes, and especially the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u300	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u301	We will support this amendment for several reasons. The first is that, if we look at the victim's point of view, our arsenal is not satisfactory. The fact that only one in ten women complain when they are victims of violence is a demonstration of this; The figure of one hundred and eighteen femicides reported this morning is also a dramatic proof of this. This means that the means we are using to receive the victims' words, to receive them physically and to collect evidence are not satisfactory. On the other hand, if we succeed in demonstrating, through the information that we will disseminate following the adoption of this law, how effectively the arsenal has been completed, we will free all those who are still victims of violence and do not speak of it. On the court side, it is clear that the available tools are not being implemented. That has been said several times. Having a marital referent would certainly make it possible to optimize the existing judicial arsenal which, unfortunately, is not often implemented. You told us yourself that we need to improve the use of the device. The creation of this reference can therefore be a strong point for victims, of course, but also within the courts, in order to make the means for the protection of victims and the punishment of perpetrators more efficient. Just as there are references for terrorism, for example, there must be conjugal referents. As legislators, we must improve the current system, which is obviously not effective, we have all seen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u302	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u303	These amendments are not useful since the Government has reiterated its commitment to the existence of these focal points at each prosecutor's office and wishes to give them the means to continue their work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would, however, like to thank Mr. Pradie for having given up his work when the Government has, for the past two years, made itself a priority in the fight against domestic violence. This government not only decided to devote a Grenelle to it, but also ensured that the work of all its members met the priority set by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. It is all this background that makes us meet here, and I would like to thank Mr. Pradie for the intellectual honesty with which he addresses these issues of particular importance and which the Government has taken into account for several months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u304	It's on our initiative!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u305	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u306	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u307	Mr Aurélien Pradié, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u308	I recall the committee's unfavorable opinion and my wisdom opinion on this amendment. We are here to make the law and, in my view, most of the orientations we want for society must go through the law. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I thank our colleague for insisting that the Republicans wanted this day to be devoted to domestic violence and the need to move from words to deeds. But at this stage, thanks are full to you and to us. The main thing is that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u309	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u310	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I confess that I am a little surprised by the intervention of my colleague and friend Rémy Rebeyrotte. This amendment did not call into question anything. Nobody here, I think, understood it that way. This rush to get ahead of attacks to which no one is thinking seems a little problematic to me, and undermines the spirit of harmony that animates us. As for the referents, I understand your arguments, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and I do not question your goodwill. In recent years, however, functional organization and good practices have been excluded by considering them to be in the domain of administration. In doing so, however, citizens are cut off from any possible, identified relays to use the devices that we vote with a great deal of professional conscience. On this amendment, I propose to all of you, who are concerned about the success of this mechanism, that we vote on it, not because it is the Socialist Group's, but simply because it responds to a request from the professionals on the ground, who will see in this display the will of the Government and the legislator to help them by creating referents who reach out to the citizens who are lost. That is the purpose of this amendment, which can be improved during the shuttle, but which, I believe, is a display, and more than a display, absolutely essential to say that violence against women is indeed the subject and that, in all its dimensions, this subject is taken into account, in this House, by the Government and by parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u311	I have before me an amendment No 116 which is the subject of a sub-amendment No 169. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u312	It is the same as the previous one, except that it aims to equip, in a way, this useful link between the citizens, the administrations and the police and gendarmerie services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u313	Sub-amendment No 169 by Mrs Maud Petit is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u314	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u315	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u316	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u317	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u318	The previous discussion was very interesting: without going so far as to create a specific jurisdiction – cases of domestic violence are fortunately not enough – it is important to clarify the organisation of justice in this area. On the other hand, if specific focal points are designated in police stations or gendarmerie, the handling of complaints will always be based on the same people, who will not always be present at the appropriate time. Combating domestic violence must be everyone's business, not just a referral. Training on such complex, thorny, dangerous and sensitive subjects must be provided to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u319	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u320	It may be sufficient to appoint and train two or three persons in police stations and gendarmerie. This will allow them to intervene in turn. We just need to make sure that one of them is still there. That doesn't seem insurmountable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u321	It's very complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u322	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u323	I am in favour of training all the staff of a police station to receive women victims of violence. Sometimes, however, the presence of a specially trained person can reinforce the victim's approach. I have the example of a police station in my constituency, in which the town hall has made available one of its employees who provides a pre-reception for women victims of violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u324	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u325	He's not a policeman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u326	This device is very effective. The idea of referent should not therefore be completely ruled out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u327	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u328	I agree with Marie-George Buffet on the lack of specially trained police and gendarmerie. Training is a major problem. Since 2016, the initial training of police officers has been reduced from twelve to nine months. How, with three months less, can police officers be better trained, especially in specific situations like the one we are talking about? The operating budgets of the National Police are declining for 2020, as are the investment budgets. The only appropriations that are increasing are those allocated to the workforce. More and more staff and fewer resources to do their job, whether it be material resources or training: the equation seems difficult to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u329	This lacks ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u330	I fear that the 2020 budgets of justice, police and gendarmerie will not meet our discussion today. I'm afraid we're giving a lot of hope and, finally, the victims are still on the same wall. I remember the testimony – two months ago, not ten years ago – of a woman who was sent home without having been able to file a complaint at the Lille police station. However, two months ago, the circulars had already been issued, and ministers had already expressed their views on addressing violence against women. We must put resources on the table, because that is the major problem. It is not acceptable to maintain the duration of the initial training at nine months or to abolish the National Institute of Higher Studies in Security and Justice – this is a bad signal. Continuing training cannot be so neglected in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u331	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u332	The various interventions show the importance of the presence of referents in the police and gendarmerie. The amendment is part of the continuation of measures to involve social workers or psychologists with whom it shares the concern to receive and listen to victims. It does not seem contradictory to me to set up training for all staff and to designate specific focal points to better accompany the victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u333	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u334	Once it is not customary, I shall repeat part of Mr Di Filippo's argument. It is probably because of the spirit of concord that we have today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u335	You're progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u336	A minimum degree of flexibility must be maintained in police stations and gendarmerie. In the case of gendarmerie, which provide an end-to-end network of the territory, the teams are already relaying to the public; they work with associations and communities. The designation of referents can always be decreed. But, on the one hand, I am not sure that this is a matter of law, and, on the other hand, let the actors organize themselves and at Grenelle the time to make solutions emerge. I invite you to vote against this amendment, which I believe is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u337	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-10-O1018.u338	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill to act against domestic violence; Discussion of the proposed law on domestic violence and its impact on children. The meeting is adjourned.
