ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u2	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, to put his question, No. 727, on the charging of homeopathy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u3	My question, which is addressed to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, concerns homeopathy. The French are very attached to this mode of care: more than half of our compatriots use it to treat themselves. I would remind you that it is practiced and prescribed by doctors, trained in France as part of a supplementary course. This is a very important subject. As far as health is concerned, it seems to me that we must allow everyone to choose their own way of care. Moreover, it is a French specialty, with many innovations. For some time now, however, some opinions have been heard, sometimes very oriented, in favour of its disbursing. For my part, I am very opposed to it, you will understand it; We should try to understand why. Homeopathy is a cheap medicine: it accounts for only 0.29% of prescriptions for medicines, which is a cost for social security. In addition, this practice avoids the use of medicines: for example, a patient treated with homeopathy consumes three times less anti-inflammatory drugs and antibiotics. In a country where over-consumption of drugs has almost become a national sport, it is therefore a means of preventing doctors from prescribing drugs as much as they currently do. Everyone knows, in their entourage, people to whom homeopathy has helped to treat small bobos, sometimes much more. My question, therefore, is quite simple: is the Government considering the introduction of homeopathy, and if so, why? We're having a little trouble understanding it. The medical field is very special. Everyone must be able to treat himself as he pleases. Moreover, France is not the only country where homeopathy is practised on a large scale. Thus, in India, it is the third recognized form of medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u5	Since the 1960s, homeopathy products have enjoyed a derogatory status and regime. Thus, the debate on their repayment and dementing has been going on for a long time. Re-evaluation of reimbursable therapeutic strategies ensures appropriate care for patients. It is normal for homeopathic medicines, like any other specialty, to be subject to this process. It is not a question of banning homeopathy but of questioning its reimbursement through national solidarity. In France, we follow a strong principle in the reimbursement of medicines: taking care of therapies with a scientifically proven effect. On this basis, Agnès Buzyn seized the High Health Authority on 1 August. The Committee on Transparency, which is a specialised training body – a scientific and independent collegiate body bringing together clinicians and members of patient and user associations – has issued a scientific and independent opinion; It will probably be the subject of an adversarial debate with the industrialists concerned. The Government is not intended to comment on the content of the report. Without prejudice to the final opinion, the main thing is to dissipate the debate. Patients should be provided with clear and appropriate information on these medicines, in order to choose whether or not to use them, regardless of whether or not their reimbursement is maintained. Homeopathy will therefore not cease to exist, whether or not the health insurance decides to maintain its reimbursement. Finally, I would like to reassure you, Mr Zumkeller, that the Government is sensitive to employment, which has a reality. We hear the concerns in the territories about the potential risks to employment posed by the de-burdening. Pharmaceutical laboratories will be able to adapt to this development. We do not prohibit homeopathy. Moreover, industrialists do not only produce for the French market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u6	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u7	If I understand correctly, the Government is about to decide to defuse homeopathy. It's very clear: you have to say it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u8	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u9	If I understand your reasoning correctly, it is based on the need – on which everyone agrees, the actors of homeopathy in the first place – to analyse the situation. I'll do it. However, when a conventional laboratory knowingly sells a placebo that is reimbursed by social security, what does the Government do? Nothing! Nothing, ever! When one holds a reasoning, one must do it to the end. If you follow your reasoning to the end, then you must prohibit the sale of placebos. However, as far as health is concerned, we know very well that there are psychological effects. Go ahead, Madam Secretary of State! Do you think you'll save money? You will do anything else, because people who no longer take homeopathy will turn to traditional medicines, which will cost social security much more. In the end, we'll sell drugs, but we won't treat people. Scientific studies are very good. But why do you think people use homeopathy? Because she's doing them good. I don't know if you have children; I do. I will take the example of arnica: if we give it to a child who has fallen, it is effective, while a particular study concludes that there is no scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u10	But we don't forbid it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u11	Of course, but if you disburse it, people will turn to other products, it's obvious. In any case, you make a choice, and you have the right. However, know that many French people are opposed to it because it is important to be able to choose. You won't make us believe that the pharmaceutical industry is not lobbying. If you were fighting against and also against excessive drug prescriptions, maybe we could get along. The Government is taking a very bad path there. The French will not accept this measure because they are very attached to the possibility of treating themselves by gentle medicine while being reimbursed. Social security is a matter of national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u12	Absolutely! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u13	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 701, on the transport costs of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u14	Victor's 25 years old. He resides in Sainte-Marie-aux-Chênes, a commune in my constituency. In a situation of disability, he attended the medical-educational institute of Pierrevillers. Very largely reached by the age limit, he should have left him for more than five years, but he remains there under the Creton amendment. Only here: Victor should go to a specialized foster home. Some organizations in the metropolis of Metz would be in a position to welcome it, but none of them organizes a transport system for its users. Moreover, the intercommunality in which he resides does not exercise transport competence. From then on, everything becomes very complicated. Victor's life plan excludes any use of boarding school. His parents, both working, have already pushed many doors, contacted many authorities. There's nothing to do with it. Either one of them manages to reconcile his working hours with those of Victor's journeys, which is impossible, or a taxi has to pick up Victor every day. The CDMH – the departmental home for disabled people – could cover the cost of the disability compensation benefit of EUR 200 per month, leaving more than EUR 2000 for the family, more than a salary. Solutions exist. This could be regulatory: the inclusion of transportation expenses in the operating expenses of living homes or accommodation homes. This could be agile: the identification of all children and young people in the living pool facing a situation close to Victor's, to activate a tailor-made offer. This could be financial: the deflation of transport aid granted by the CDMH for such situations. Finally, this could be legislative: within the framework of the mobility guidance law, by strengthening the obligation of EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – to replace the region in the event of a lack of service. Whatever solution is chosen, it is up to us to find one, Madam Secretary of State, because there are many Victors in our territories and their caregivers are exhausted by the difficulties they face. I'll ask a few questions. Is there a regulatory change in the coverage of transportation costs? Can the State consider contributing financially to the emergence of innovative solutions for the needs little or poorly covered in peri-urban or rural areas? Is the deplorable provision of transport aid for disability compensation envisaged, particularly where no transport organizing authority is in a position to meet the needs? Finally, will the relevant competences be included in the obligations to which future mobility organising authorities will be subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u15	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u16	Mr Belhaddad, thank you for your question, which has the merit of drawing our attention to the situation of some children with disabilities who have become adults, such as Victor. Situations like the one you describe are numerous. We must collectively find a solution, in terms of a field of competence which is widely shared between the State and local and regional authorities. The massive and accelerated transformation of the provision of support for children and adults with disabilities, in order to develop inclusive responses and facilitate life paths, must be part of a more integrated territorial organisation. This is both a societal requirement and a major political objective. We know how transportation problems, including their financing, can affect the completion of the life project and the development of people with disabilities. Beyond that, your question raises the question of the rest of the burden borne by persons with disabilities. This is a concern of the Government, which I know is shared by parliamentarians. Furthermore, the various projects under way in the field of disability will have to contribute to addressing the problem of transport, reaffirming, if necessary, the principles in force, which are sometimes unknown. In cases such as Victor's, it is a question of proposing new accompaniment solutions, allowing to reconcile the daily lives of family caregivers with the life project of the person with a disability. Finally, I would point out that the subjects of transport organisation and care are discussed in particular in the context of the work to simplify the provision of compensation for disability, which itself constitutes one of the areas of reflection of the national conference on disability. In this context, we will not fail to answer your question, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u17	Mr Dino Cinieri, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 714 on the cost of extra-curricular services for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u18	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health, but it also concerns the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. Several mayors of my riding of the Loire, which covers Ondaine, Pilat and Forez, have reported a significant increase in the cost of extracurricular services for the municipalities. For several years, indeed, it appears that the funds allocated by the family allowance fund – the CAF – have been declining. In the context of a drastic reduction in aided contracts and a reduction in State allocations to local authorities, mayors and municipal elected officials are finding it increasingly difficult to organize extracurricular time, whether it be the morning day-care centre, before the beginning of the courses, or the evening school, or the meridian break or the reception of Wednesdays. However, the out-of-school recreation service is essential for families, especially when both parents work, in the cities but also and especially in rural areas. Without real state support, the municipalities will be forced to significantly increase the rates applicable to families, which would be a catastrophic signal, I stress the word, because they are already facing a high tax burden. In addition, increasing the cost of child care tends to discourage mothers from resuming or retaining paid employment, as is well known. I would therefore like to make three requests: that the State and the CAF restore all the financial aid paid before the reform of school rhythms; new aided contracts are granted to municipalities; extra-curricular leisure services are compensated against the euro.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u19	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u20	Mr Cinieri, you are talking about a reduction in the financing of the family branch, which I am very surprised to hear. The objective and management agreement – COGE – in force, signed in 2018 by the State and CAF for five years, provides for €608 million per year to be spent by 2022 on establishments offering leisure opportunities for school children, especially during extracurricular time, which is 21 million more than in 2017. The family branch of social security is fully engaged with the communes and intercommunals, in order to accompany their return to a four-day school-time organisation a week and to help them re-establish a quality leisure offer on Wednesday. It has thus set itself the objective of creating 500,000 reception places on Wednesday by 2022, thanks to the increase in funding for leisure centres, to which a total of almost 50 million euros will be allocated. This subsidy, paid in addition to the traditional CAF grant, will be granted to the co-signatory communes – with the prefect, the national education services and the director of the CAF – a plan on Wednesday, guaranteeing the quality of the activities proposed. However, the specific educational rhythm aid, known as ASRE, which had been set up by the CNAF – the National Fund for Family Allowances – in 2013, when the communes moved to the four-and-a-half-day week, has not been abolished. It will continue to be paid to the municipalities which have chosen to maintain this method of organisation and the structures offering new extra-curricular activities or extra-curricular activities introduced during the previous reform of school rhythms. These municipalities will therefore always benefit from funding from the family branch. In addition, they will always receive support from the support fund for the development of extracurricular activities. The Ministry of National Education and Youth has decided to maintain this fund, which makes it possible to pay flat-rate aid of EUR 50 per pupil per year, which may be increased by EUR 40 under certain conditions. The State and the family branch have therefore decided to maintain the level of funding available to municipalities and managers of reception facilities before 2018, or even to make progress on Wednesdays, in order to meet a double objective of maintaining the existing offer and developing the activities proposed on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u21	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u22	You must know that I am not satisfied with your answer at all. Seen from Paris, everything's fine. But when you are in an electoral district deep in the province, especially in a rural municipality, the situation is not at all the one you described. Local authorities need assisted contracts because they do not have the means to replace them with anything else. After a good reading of your answer to my question, I expect strong actions, for the benefit of the municipalities, whether they are rural or urban.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u23	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 719, concerning the financing of private health institutions of collective interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u24	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. The subject I'm going to talk to you about is not new. I had already alerted him for the first time, by a letter dated 7 December 2017, on the particularly harmful consequences of the resumption of the profits of the CITS – a tax credit on the tax on wages – for the institutions of hospitalisation associations and mutualists. This issue, which arose during the consideration of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2018, generated a debate at the end of which the Government committed itself not to undertake this resumption on the funding mechanisms. However, ESPICs, which, I would remind you, meet the same public service obligations as public structures, are currently the only hospitals whose rates will fall by 0.1%. This decline occurs even though their counterparts will benefit from a 0.2% increase in their tariffs. Based on the reaffirmed need for the resumption of the CITS, this decrease is inexplicable, especially since in practice the CITS has replaced all the other existing mechanisms for compensating for the burden differentials – compensation necessary since private institutions bear, at equal wages, significantly higher wage costs than public institutions. In other words, the solution that had been found to compensate for the charge differential borne by ESPICs with the creation of the CITS has gradually been diluted, so much so that there is no mechanism to compensate for the charge differential. However, since the revenues of the public and the private sector are no longer the same, asymmetry becomes inequitable. ESPICs suffer the combined effects of several years of price increases and a 0.8% decrease in revenues, while they still bear 6% additional wage costs. Madam Secretary of State, the resumption of the CITS undermines the financial balance of the ESPICs and raises very clearly the question of the compensation of the existing inequality between public and private non-profit institutions. During his campaign, the President of the Republic praised the virtues and effectiveness of the ESPIC model. So what measures does the Government intend to take to support these institutions and enable them to carry out their missions in optimal conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u25	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u26	Mrs Florennes, I share your commitment to private not-for-profit health facilities. To date, however, no comprehensive study has been able to demonstrate that there is a structural differential in charges that is unfavourable to establishments in this sector compared to public structures. I would like to remind you that the overall financial situation of public health institutions is much worse than that of private non-profit institutions on the same tariff scale. The choice of partial resumption of the wage tax credit since 2018 is simply a fairness measure. The recovery of the financial benefits of the introduction of the CITS for non-profit institutions is legally necessary, as the effects of the liability pact and the CICE – the competitiveness and employment tax credit – have already been fully recovered for private for-profit institutions that benefited from it. It would therefore not be fair to retain for some what has been fully taken up to others. However, as with for-profit institutions, we wanted to make the recovery very gradual: in 2017, non-profit institutions were able to benefit from the full effects of the CITS; in 2018, only 20% of this profit was taken back to them; In 2019, the recovery only reached 50% of their gain. With regard to 2019, it should also be stressed that, thanks to the strengthening of tax and social relief, private non-profit institutions will benefit from the various reliefs, including by integrating the additional recovery of the benefits of the ITSC. Indeed, since January 1st, the ITSC has been converted into a more favourable reduction in employer contributions, which will be further expanded on October 1st. Thus, far from weakening this sector to which the French are so attached, the general policy led by the Government contributes to providing new financial space for private non-profit health institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u27	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u28	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for this answer which, however, does not convince me. I had the opportunity to discuss regularly, in particular with the director of an ESPIC located in my constituency – the Foch Hospital in Suresnes – the good financial situation of the ESPICs, which the President of the Republic had stressed, but they find themselves penalized, in fact, by this measure. The director of this institution also told me that he was not convinced of the legal need for convergence with regard to the resumption of the financial advantages brought about by the transition from the CICE to the CITS for the two categories of institutions, which has not been proven. The discussion continues on this subject, particularly in the Senate. I will continue to support the ESPICs because I cannot be completely satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u29	Mrs Pires Beaune, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No 724, concerning the establishment of accommodation for elderly people dependent on Riom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u30	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I would like to ask you about a matter which you may not know personally but which your services know well: that of the EHPAD hospitalier de Riom, which is called "Les Jardins". The long-standing state of this institution, installed within the Riom hospital centre, has led to the development of a reconstruction project in order to restore dignified and secure reception conditions for the residents – I insist on this point – while significantly improving the particularly difficult working conditions of the staff. Studies are ready, land is under control; lack of funding. For many years, together with local elected representatives, professionals and families of residents, we have been increasing our interventions in order to obtain financial support from the state that will allow the reconstruction on site of a new EHPAD, still under hospital management, which would also help to sustain the activity of the hospital centre in Riom. At the end of 2017, to the general satisfaction, the ARS – the regional health agency – and the departmental council had each announced a grant of €1.5 million to accompany the project. However, in the course of 2018, the Ministry of Economy and Finance expressed its disagreement about the proposed financial arrangement for the project, rightly considering, moreover, that the financial situation of the hospital centre was insufficiently sound. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has also received a letter from your colleague Gérald Darmanin on this subject. On March 28, you were given the conclusions of the Libault report on age and autonomy. One of its flagship proposals is to devote €3 billion over ten years to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of public EHPADs. Does the Government intend to implement this recommendation of the Libault report and according to what timetable? In addition, what criteria for prioritizing projects do you intend to select? This long-awaited plan would provide concrete support for the implementation of the most urgent projects, such as that of Riom, by continuing the public management of these establishments accessible to all our citizens – all places of the EHPAD of Riom are entitled to social assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u31	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u32	Ms Pires Beaune, the hospital in Riom runs a 149-bed EHPAD divided between two buildings. One of them has been the subject of an unfavorable opinion of the Security Committee for several years – as you mentioned – and no longer presents satisfactory conditions for the reception of dependent elderly people. It was therefore decided to opt for the single-site reconstruction of a new 120-bed EHPAD for an amount of approximately 17 million euros. The very deteriorating financial situation of the CH – the hospital –, which did not have the capacity to borrow, led in 2016 to consider the use of a partnership market. To consolidate this operation, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes ARS and the Puy-de-Dôme departmental council, you recalled, have committed themselves to accompany it to the tune of 1.5 million euros each. In accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance of 23 July 2015 and the Decree of 25 March 2016, the draft partnership was submitted to the opinions of the ministries responsible for finance and the budget. If a favourable opinion has been given on the appropriateness of the method of implementation chosen, the Budget Directorate has delivered an unfavourable opinion on its budgetary sustainability in view of the deteriorating financial situation of the institution. The Minister of Action and Public Accounts confirmed the refusal to use a partnership contract in a letter to the Minister of Solidarity and Health dated 17 December 2018. Despite the many aids provided by the RSA, the institution's financial situation has not recovered. It should be recalled that the ARS supported CH's health activities to the tune of 4.5 million in 2018 and fully funded the facility's emergency reconstruction project. Despite these multiple aids, the institution's draft estimate of revenue and expenditure for 2019 showed an accounting deficit of €1.8 million, representing 3.9% of operating income. The French Mutualité Puy-de-Dôme has expressed its interest in a possible resumption of the management of EHPAD by maintaining it on the site and within the framework of the gerontological sector of Riom. It confirmed its commitment by a vote of its board of directors on February 18. This option is strongly supported by the Mayor of Riom, Chairman of the CH Supervisory Board, who makes the reconstruction of EHPAD a priority. The CH Supervisory Board, for its part, approved, at its meeting on 9 April, the principle of working on this issue with Mutuality. The departmental council and the ARS are in full agreement on the management of this case, in particular on the search for a concerted solution between the CH and the Mutuality, as evidenced by the letter from the president of the departmental council to the minister dated February 15. You also asked me about the Libault report. You have not escaped that all of its recommendations are taken into account in the bill being drafted, which will be introduced in the fall: they will be studied and worked on, particularly with parliamentarians. This text will deal with the territorial network of care for the elderly, particularly in EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u33	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u34	Madam Secretary of State, my question was essentially about the Libault report on the basis of a concrete case: that of the EHPAD de Riom. Be aware that neither the staff nor the representatives of the families, nor myself, are in agreement with the project of the French Mutuality, which already manages, in the Puy-de-Dôme, four EHPADs, in which there is not a single place authorized for social assistance: I say well, not one! Is the French Mutuality ready to commit to ad vitam aeternam on the empowerment of 120 places for social assistance? No! We are in total disagreement. Don't rob public EHPADs! We look forward to taking into account the recommendations of the Libault report, particularly those relating to the reconstruction of public EHPADs. I still have hope, because the numbers show it and they are terrible, the issue of ageing is before us. Let's get this. I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u35	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to put his question, No. 725, concerning the eligibility criteria for the 1 euro canteen scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u36	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to go back to the strategy for preventing and combating poverty, in particular the 1 euro canteen scheme, by relaying questions from a number of mayors. Everyone is naturally aware of the importance of food and nutrition, for adults but especially for young people, children, especially in schools. Think that one student in three goes to school empty stomachs: the public authorities must therefore take an interest in this issue. This problem concerns children from disadvantaged backgrounds, but not only: some have the means but are not aware of the importance of nutrition. The Government has indicated that it wishes to grant the municipalities which commit themselves a State aid of 2 euros per meal, knowing that it costs on average 4.50 euros. Nevertheless, many issues remain outstanding, at this stage, among the mayors. First, you announced that up to 10,000 municipalities could be affected by this device. What are the specific eligibility criteria? On the other hand, what considerations will prevent access? Secondly, the mayors would like to know the financing arrangements chosen, which will have an impact on communal finances, and thus on public finances. Furthermore, how will the scheme relate to the social policies pursued by the municipalities? In each municipality, there is a CASC – a communal centre for social action – in which municipal teams pursue a social policy to support disadvantaged or difficult families, in particular to pay for the canteen. Finally, when will the device be officially put in place?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u37	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u38	Mr Benoit, the meal in the canteen is a central support point for public health policies and anti-poverty policies, and is part of the poverty prevention and anti-poverty strategy. It provides at least one full and balanced meal per day. It promotes the smooth running of learning by contributing to the concentration of pupils, and also contributes to the learning of living together, to the evolution of the child's view of his or her school environment and to the improvement of the school climate. The social pricing of school canteens, including the scheme known as "one-euro canteen", consists of charging meals to families according to a progressive fee schedule taking into account their level of resources. It is the sole decision of the municipalities or inter-communities concerned and is in line with the objective of the strategy for preventing and combating poverty aimed at ensuring access to food for all. Indeed, a study points out that children from disadvantaged families are twice as many who do not eat in the canteen as students from favoured and highly favoured families, you have alluded to it. In a spirit of territorial equity and attention to budgetary constraints, the Government has offered support that is intended to be an incentive, while targeting the most fragile territories, the least likely to bear the cost of social pricing alone. In the case of municipalities which have transferred their school competence to the inter-municipal level, a criterion for the integration of EPCIs has been defined, in view of the proportion of their population living in a fragile municipality. In any event, the measures will be based on the voluntary work of the municipalities concerned. Eligible communities are the municipalities eligible for the target portion of the rural solidarity grant – the DSR – that have retained academic competence as well as the PECI with academic competence, where at least two thirds of their population live in a municipality eligible for the target SRD. The aid will amount to 2 euros per meal charged to the lowest slice. It will be paid to the municipalities on two conditions: a social fee for canteens with at least three tranches must have been set up; the lowest part of this fee should not exceed 1 euro per meal. Finally, the Government wishes to point out that municipalities and EPCIs are free to set meal rates in the canteen, and that the financial support of the State must enable communities wishing to join the social pricing approach to be supported. This measure has been operational since April 1, 2019. It requires a simple form and a deliberation of the municipality which takes charge of the tariffs. Municipalities already offering adapted social rates can also benefit from this reimbursement of 2 euros by the State. For being a social worker, managing a CASC and acting as assistant to a CASC, I can tell you that the optional CASA grants can continue to be paid to the municipalities up to 1 euro or 1.50 euro, when the cost of the meal is 4.50 euros. In this regard, on 13 May, I received all the associations representing the communities, including the Association of Rural Mayors of France, and the dialogue will continue. I also received representatives of the parents' federations. Finally, we are setting up a monitoring committee for this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u39	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor for a very brief reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u40	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the sustainability of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u41	Until 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u42	The change in school rhythms by the previous government has been a fiasco, let us remember: now, one part of the territory applies the week of four days, and the other that of four and a half days. But the country needs cohesion, and the mayors need readability. So we will see to the use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u43	Mr Dominique Da Silva, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, raised his question, No. 703, on the supervision of judicial representatives of adults protected by a guardianship measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u44	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to draw your attention to a situation which is of particular concern to me in my constituency: that of a major, protected by a guardianship measure, whose judicial agent clearly failed in his duties and failed in his duties. Some protective measures such as guardianship or guardianship provide, as you know, that the financial management of the property is the responsibility of a judicial agent outside the family. It is responsible for the payment of the weekly sum allocated by the guardianship judge, as well as the payment of all expenses and the administration of real property. Although supposed to be closely controlled by a magistrate, the impeccable management of the accounts of the protected major is not fully guaranteed. In this particular case, the family alerted the guardianship judge on several occasions in order to report the deplorable living conditions of the protected adult and his wife, aggravated by the misadministration of their assets. After analysis of the case, the more than doubtful nature of the management was proved, and the guardianship judge ordered a change of judicial agent. First of all, I would like to know the safeguards available to families, in order to ensure the most complete transparency in the management of property by the guardian. Secondly, I would like to ask you about the new mechanisms that make possible a more direct link between the family of the protected adult and his or her legal representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u45	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u46	The protective measures imposed by a judge are carried out under the continuous supervision of the latter and also of the public prosecutor. Any third party informed of a malfunction in the exercise of a measure can therefore alert the guardianship judge. In addition, an order of 17 January 2018 organises the administrative control of the activity of natural persons exercising the functions of judicial agents for the protection of adults. It expressly provides for the information of the public prosecutor and the court of guardianship when the health, safety or physical or moral well-being of the protected person is threatened or compromised by the conditions for the exercise of the judicial protection measure. These new provisions therefore allow, without prejudice to Articles 416 and 417 of the Civil Code, the exchange of information between the persons responsible for the supervision of professionals and the judicial authority responsible for the supervision of the measure. Moreover, the law of 23 March 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and reform for the justice system has maintained this obligation of supervision and reformed the arrangements for the control of management accounts, in order to guarantee their effectiveness. Where more than one person exercises protection as a contributor, guardian and assistant guardian or guardian and subrogated guardian, including family members, they must jointly establish and certify management accounts; either may, therefore, refer any difficulty to the judge. The judge may also decide to appoint a qualified professional to monitor the accounts when the income or assets of the major so warrant; Again, referral to the judge is always possible in order to punish, where appropriate, a failure by the person in charge of protection. In your question, you refer to the isolated behaviour of a judicial agent in the protection of adults. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the quality of the work of the vast majority of judicial agents, who, it should be recalled, carry out almost half of the judicial protection measures, when the adult's entourage cannot take care of them. I am aware, however, that abuses or suspicions exist, but I consider that the legislation in force makes it possible to punish such acts, as has been the case in this case, since the judge has dismissed the professional. Beyond the control exercised by judges and administrative control, the civil or criminal liability of the agent may always be called into question in order to punish wrongful conduct. The relationship between the family and the judicial agent must, of course, be promoted, to the extent possible, but the measure must also be exercised in a serene and trustworthy framework. This specific point is the subject of reflection in the working group on the professional ethics of judicial officers, led by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, in which the Ministry of Justice participates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u47	I call Mr Sacha Houlié to speak on his question No. 709 on the social security affiliation of the beneficiaries of detainees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u48	Madam Keeper of the Seals, my question is not only about access to care, but also about access to the rights of the right-holders of detained persons. They are automatically affiliated with the social security system through the National Centre for the Management of Social Protection of Failed Persons. During their detention, they are therefore removed from the general regime. Articles L. 380-30 et seq. of the Social Security Code regulate their social protection but omit the situation of their beneficiaries, including their children. Children of those in prison, who do not live with prisoners – fortunately not provided for by law after 18 months – are removed from social security when their second parent does not take care of them. Thus, in my constituency, where the Poitiers-Vivonne detention centre is located, they cannot be reimbursed when they go to pharmacies, which effectively excludes them from the social protection scheme provided for in France. The CMU-C scheme – supplementary universal health insurance – may be granted to an incarcerated person if the conditions are met, upon express request, but this provision does not resolve the question of the affiliation of the beneficiaries, who are not attached to them. It would therefore be appropriate to provide for an automatic affiliation of minor children of a person in prison – often the mother, because she is in charge of it. In this case, should they be affiliated with the general scheme or with that of the prisoners?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u49	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u50	Mr Houlié, you have recalled, since 2017, the health insurance rights of the people in prison are managed by two primary health insurance funds, the Lot and the Oise, which constitute the national centre for the management of the social protection of the people in prison, the CNPE. This has made it possible to harmonise procedures and dematerialise the exchange of information, thus facilitating the process of affiliation: the institutions now have well-identified interlocutors, dedicated staff and trained in the primary health insurance fund taking care of the prisoners. The latter are all members of the general health insurance scheme: they are covered by health care costs and have access to the CMU-C, the supplementary universal health insurance, for the financing of the remainder of dental and optical expenses. You raise the issue of the rights holders of detained persons. Since the introduction of universal health protection on 1 January 2016, only minor children have been considered entitled beneficiaries, as adults are affiliated individually provided that they reside in France on a stable and regular basis. When a minor child is attached to his or her parent, he or she is affiliated, at the time of his or her imprisonment, with the fund of his or her place of residence, in order to ensure community management. In concrete terms, it is the CNPE that ensures the link with the caisse of the place where the child resides to engage this local connection. The CNPE has five days to join the person in the general scheme; It also forwards to the CPAM – the primary health insurance fund – of the children's place of residence a file for their inclusion. Only minors under 18 months of age who remain with their imprisoned mother are directly managed by CNPE because of their presence in a prison. Therefore, as it is organized, the system should not at any time leave the minor child of an unaffiliated person. As a result of the attachment of a prisoner to the general scheme, managed by the CNPE, if a difficulty arises for one of his minor children, recourse must be made to the CPAM of the place of residence. In view of the difficulties mentioned, I will draw closer to my colleague Agnès Buzyn in order to complete the methodological guide, so that the five-day deadline for the CNPE for the affiliation of the imprisoned person is also the time limit within which the CPAM of the place of residence of the minor child must comply with the latter's affiliation. That is how we can overcome the difficulties you have described.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u51	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u52	Thank you for your response and for the steps you are going to take to clarify the way in which MAPCs are to be affiliated, within five days, with children between 18 months and 18 years of age who are not affiliated with the CNPE. For my part, I will come closer to the CPAM of Poitiers, to which it is for the children whom I have spoken to you within the time limit that you have indicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u53	Mrs George Pau-Langevin has the floor to raise her question, No. 722, concerning the exercise of the profession of lawyer in the face of hate campaigns on social networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u54	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to draw your attention to the conditions for practising the profession of lawyer in the face of hatred on the Internet, because more and more lawyers are victims of unacceptable slippages on social networks. Recently, Mr. Marjane Ghaem, an immigrant law specialist, registered at the Mayotte Bar, has been subjected to virulent online attacks by anti-immigration groups and activists. In December 2018, she had been filmed without her knowledge while interviewing residents of Mamoudzou municipality on the application of a court decision relating to the demolition of many houses built without the owner's consent. A large part of the people appearing on this video were in an irregular situation in Mayotte. The sequence was widely shared on social networks, with offensive comments, even sometimes calling for murder against the lawyer, against the background of well-known tensions between Mahorais and Comoriens. Mr. Ghaem was accused of encouraging illegal immigration and the plundering of land, and she became the target of threats. The lawyers of the Bar of Mayotte expressed their solidarity with their conœur, shocked by these intolerable manifestations of hatred towards him. Beyond this case, social networks are used to make threatening statements against people – who go so far as to call for murder – or property. Their initial sharing function is thus totally diverted. Madam Keeper of the Seals, what answers do you intend to give to these actions? What measures should be taken to ensure that such acts do not happen again, that lawyers' safety is ensured and that their freedom to exercise is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u55	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u56	Mrs Pau-Langevin, as you know, provocation to commit attacks on a person's physical integrity or destruction, damage or damage dangerous to people, as well as incitement to hatred or violence, are punishable by section 24 of the Press Freedom Act of 1881. In order to combat these hate speech, the Ministry of Justice has been pursuing a firm criminal policy for several years. Thus, on 4 April 2019, I signed a circular on the fight against discrimination, hate speech and hate behaviour, in which I wished to draw the attention of public prosecutors and public prosecutors to the particular treatment that these intolerable behaviors require for our Republic. I stressed the need for particular vigilance in the conduct of public action, from the collection of the complaint to the decision. I also pointed out that the civil interim procedure can be used in order to obtain orders for the removal of hate content or blocking access to sites that carry them against web hosting and Internet service providers – this is a route that prosecutors no longer hesitate to use. Moreover, the new challenges raised by the development of the Internet have led to the adoption of a legislative arsenal in this area. For example, the Digital Economy Confidence Act 2004 provided for the criminal liability of technical Internet providers, access providers and hosting companies. A proposal for a law to combat hate on the Internet will soon be debated in this House. It will require online platforms that generate significant traffic to remove manifestly illegal content, including those involving incitement to hatred, within 24 hours of notification. The obligation to withdraw promptly will be accompanied by sanctions against recalcitrant operators. The proposed law also provides for the simplification of the procedure for reporting illegal content by Internet users. These tools will enable us to fight more effectively against hate campaigns such as those you refer to. They are particularly unacceptable when they target lawyers, the first defenders of freedoms. As you recalled, Mr. Marjane Ghaem, a lawyer at the Bar of Mayotte, was subjected, following a television intervention, to insults on social networks, being accused of "promoting Comorian immigration". I immediately seized the Attorney General of Saint-Denis-de-La-Réunion. The public prosecutor met with the bar of Mayotte to ensure that the public prosecutor was at the disposal of Mr. Ghaem to collect his complaint and conduct all necessary investigations. To date, no complaints have been filed, but I would like to reiterate to you that there can be no impunity for such acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u57	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u58	Madam Keeper of the Seals, thank you for your answer. I know the 1881 law, but the example I have given shows that it is virtually impossible to initiate this very specialized procedure against an incalculable number of people. It is therefore necessary to strengthen legislation in this area. On the other hand, it is important to explain to our fellow citizens that we must distinguish between the work of the lawyer and the cause he defends. Assimilating a lawyer to one or the other of his clients is an absolute counter-sense in terms of the role he plays in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u59	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor to put her question, No 706, on the location of the laboratory of the French Anti-Doping Agency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u60	Madam Minister of Sport, my question relates to the project to relocate the national doping testing laboratory – the LNDD – of the French Anti-Doping Agency, located in Châtenay-Malabry – the AFLD. In February 2018, the Presidency of the Île-de-France region expressed the hope that the premises hosting this laboratory, owned by the region, would be released by 2019. From then on, the Grand Paris Sud community of agglomeration, the departmental council of Essonne and their scientific partners – the University of Évry, the Genopole, which is the capital of French genetics, and the CEA, Commissariat à l'énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives – have developed a quality laboratory reception offer in new premises that would be made available to it gracefully at the heart of the "genopolitan pole", under the control of territorial works, with the guarantee of a firm financial tower and without any damage to the State. However, in December 2018, following a call for expressions of interest, an interdepartmental meeting was held to relocate the national doping testing laboratory to the Orsay campus in 2023. The decision-making process has suffered from major frailties and the selected project contains worrying financial and calendar uncertainties related to asbestos removal work. As we know, this project will be a major brake on the momentum of the 2024 Olympic Games for the Île-de-France region. With my colleague Francis Chouat, we therefore ask you to reconsider the relocation of the LNDD to Évry-Courcouronnes, because we know that it is the fairest offer, which meets the needs of both the AFLD, the Île-de-France region and the public and scientific players in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u61	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u62	Mrs Guévenoux, thank you for your question and I would like to reassure you of the two points you raised at the end of your speech. As you know, in view of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024, the commitment was made to renovate the AFLD laboratory, currently located in Châtenay-Malabry, Hauts-de-Seine. The aim of this approach is to develop a new state-of-the-art laboratory that can meet WADA's requirements – the World Anti-Doping Agency – by being up-to-date with the latest scientific advances and developing international cooperation. I would like to assure you that the two projects to host the laboratory, Orsay and Évry, have been examined with the utmost care, following an open and transparent procedure. At the request of the Ministry of Sport, AFLD first issued a call for expressions of interest, the responses of which were reviewed by independent experts, who were commissioned by the Agency. Advice was also sought from WADA, which issues certifications. The representatives of the two candidate projects were then heard by the ministers responsible for the budget and sports, as well as by the government's real estate management. It emerged from this procedure that the site of the University of Paris-Saclay was more suitable than that of Évry; It will allow for richer scientific synergies between the laboratory and the neighbouring university, particularly in terms of analytical, chemical and biological methods for the detection of doping. This is why the AFLD College unanimously chose the Paris-Saclay project. This choice was validated at an interdepartmental meeting on November 27th. It will receive funding from the State. The Prime Minister confirmed this position in a letter sent in March to the President of the region. Subsequently, WADA gave a favourable opinion on this relocation project. Be aware that this choice does not call into question the global scientific influence of the Genopoly of Évry or the quality of its research on the human genome and in the field of biotechnology. You yourself have stressed the possibility of carrying out projects in financial collaboration with the local authorities on which the Évry site depends: you will therefore agree that it is essential that discussions be started quickly between AFLD and the Genopoly, with a view to partnerships in the field of genetic doping. Similarly, I would like to visit the Cluster Grand Paris Sport website shortly to discuss future collaborations with the Ministry of Sports and to examine what we can install in these premises, which we look forward to being made available free of charge, as you have indicated. In conclusion, I am very committed to the move project being carried out in accordance with the announced timetable, since it is necessary for the AFLD to be operational in 2023, when France will host the Rugby World Cup. We will, of course, ensure that we respect the various actors involved in this issue, whether universities, communities, particularly the Île-de-France region, the CREPS – a centre of resources, expertise and sports performance – of Châtenay-Malabry, or the collaborators of the NHLD and AFLD, who are committed to the prevention and fight against doping on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u63	Mrs Marie Guévenoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, as you have understood, the territorial actors involved in this project have had to deal with significant lack of communication around the AMI – a call for expressions of interest – whose organizational conditions have not been optimal. For example, we were forced to meet an abnormally short period of time during the summer. I have heard that you have grasped the importance of this project for our great crown territory. We regret that the process has not been more legible for local actors, who are fighting to value our high-level scientific and economic offer. All the territorial actors who have committed themselves to this issue – and that too, your answer shows that you seem to have understood it – remain at your disposal to consider with you the various partnerships that can be forged, in particular between AFLD and the University of Évry. More generally, the Cluster Grand Paris Sport is at the disposal of your ministry for future collaborations, as you have proposed, with the full support of the elected representatives of the community of Greater Paris Sud – I spoke to them on the phone – the departmental council of Essonne, Francis Chouat and myself. We look forward to your next visit to our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u65	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge spoke of her question, No. 720, concerning the qualification of natural sites for climbing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u66	Madam Minister of Sport, I would like to ask you about access to natural sites for the practice of climbing and the uses of this sport, which is very popular. This new Olympic sport – as you know – has more than 1 million practitioners in France, with a growth rate of 6% per year. Climbing on a natural site is also a real economic opportunity for the territories concerned. Some sites are internationally renowned and welcome practitioners from around the world throughout the year. I therefore take you this morning to Isère, at the foot of the Vercors, in the area of Choranche-Presles, which offers climbers more than 300 climbing routes on exceptional cliffs, throughout the year, due to their particularities and their exposure. This site, owned by private persons, is governed by articles 544 et seq. of the Civil Code. The use of the site and its development are therefore subject to the goodwill of the owners, who may refuse access to it. In practice, authorization is often tacit – this is a tolerance – but access to cliffs can be challenged and denied. In this case, the local authorities still have three possibilities: to acquire the land by amicable means or by expropriation procedure if the public utility of the project is demonstrated; set up a contract between the owner and the Fédération française de la montagne et de l'escalation; to impose a right of passage on land for the purposes of a sporting practice whose public interest is proven, but the scope of such easements is relatively limited. I would therefore like to know your position and that of the Government on the possibility of changing the qualification of climbing routes to public facilities of general interest, and of extending the easements on climbing routes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u67	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u68	As you know, since 2000, the departmental authorities have been responsible for promoting the controlled development of nature sports. To this end, the departments, as leaders for this theme, have two appropriate tools: a forum for consultation, the CDESI, the departmental commission of the ESI, spaces, sites and itineraries; a plan for the management of places of practice emanating from this forum, the PDESI, a departmental plan of spaces, sites and routes, of which 41 per cent of the departments have established themselves. The aim of these two tools is to reconcile the development of sports practices of nature with respect for the environment, the right attached to private property, which you mentioned, and other uses of the natural environment. To date, 64% of the departments have created the forum for consultation, with a marked acceleration over the last five years, particularly under the leadership of the PRNSN, the national resource centre for nature sports, which can be approached through the CREPS – centre of resources, expertise and sports performance – Rhône-Alpes, expert in the field, which can provide information on the subject, and the Ministry of Sports, which sets up this centre and supports the departments in this process. So if you haven't already done so, you can get closer to the NSNP. The Ministry of Sport has developed a technical guide entitled "For a controlled development of nature sports", which explains this approach, as well as a national monitoring tool on access to ISEs, called Suricate, which encourages users to behave as sentinels of these places of practice and to bring back to us all information concerning the safety or signalling of the spaces, sites and routes they frequent. This second tool has a real value in the management, maintenance and safety of the sites: one can thus point to the potential landfills and landslides or the inaccessibility of the sites. SURICATE should be improved by implementing an app that can be used on a smartphone or tablet. The Ministry of Sport also organises regular information meetings and training on this subject two or three times a year. It should also be noted that areas of practice are accessible without any formalization of a departmental plan. It is important to know the setting within which free sites can be accessed, in order to avoid any disappointment. This approach, which has been preferred since 2000, is based on consultation with the owners of the spaces, sites and routes that decide to give them access. It seems to us that this is a relevant approach, which must be preserved. The use of the signing of user agreements is the basis for the system of free public access to ISEs, which needs to be strengthened. It is therefore not useful to change the current framework, which is able to maintain a balance between the different interests we have mentioned. However, I would like to focus on the evolution of the number of climbing practitioners: the progress of this practice is due more to the availability of artificial sites, especially in urban areas, in sports halls, which are all the more likely to develop as this discipline is, as you have recalled, now Olympic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u69	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, to put his question, No. 698, concerning the fight against illegal gold mining in Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u70	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, about ten days ago, the military destroyed three sites recently abandoned by illegal goldsmiths on Bagot Creek, a few kilometres from the collection station that irrigates the homes of the agglomeration of Cayenne and Cacao with drinking water. However, the goldsmiths had vacated well before the arrival of the forces of law and order. This unfortunate new episode tells us that the activities of plundering the resources of the Guyanese basement are clearly developing at high speed around the capital, with the proliferation of small underground yards generating all the disastrous externalities that can be imagined for public health and safety. As our Brazilian neighbour deploys more than 3,000 troops on the border to fight crime, our government does not seem to have grasped the scale of the human and ecological tragedy that is taking place on Guyanese territory. Unfortunately, we will never get out of this impasse, as it seems enormous to us the disproportion between the nature of the scourge and the means used to combat it. Is it useful to recall here that, under article 5 of our Constitution, the President of the Republic is a guarantor of the integrity of the national territory and that, as such, he must mobilize the means to fight effectively to eradicate this scourge permanently? We are in a situation of failure, and it is more than time to change our strategy. To put things in perspective, I recall that 500 law enforcement units are regularly mobilized to fight against 15,000 garimpeiros armed to the teeth, which evolve in their natural environment and which, above all, have nothing to lose. By comparison, on May 17, 2018, no fewer than 1,800 men, including 455 soldiers, and dozens of vans were deployed to dislodge 200 Zadists at Notre-Dame-des-Landes. Look for the mistake! Could we accept that 15,000 illegal immigrants are digging and looting the resources of the subsoil of Brittany, Var or New Aquitaine? Definitely not! Why, then, would what would not be admissible in hexagonal France be admissible in overseas France, especially in French Guiana? Mr Secretary of State, isn't it time to take a sincere look at Harpie's operations? Nevertheless, I would like to pay tribute to the women and men who drive them under extremely difficult conditions. My question is simple: when is the Government finally going to declare war on the illegal and clandestine ordeal that gangrene Guyana's territory? It is a matter of national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u71	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u72	Mr Serville, I would like to reassure you that the Government is not resolving the situation that you have just described. We are acting with great determination to strengthen the fight against illegal orpainting in French Guiana, which is part of the continuation of the implementation of the agreement of 21 April 2017, which provided for the creation of an illegal orpainting staff placed with the prefect of French Guiana, a completely new arrangement. Operation Harpie, launched on 11 February 2008, has also strengthened the law enforcement component of the fight against illegal orpainting. On a daily basis, it is more than 300 men and women who work against this phenomenon, whether they are the armed forces in Guyana, the public prosecutor's offices or all other State departments, in the framework of very close coordination, which we have sought to strengthen further. Let me think about the families of the five soldiers who lost their lives in Operation Harpie. In 2018, more than 26 million euros of criminal assets were seized, nearly 200 confiscated firearms and more than 4000 illegal aliens arrested. Since 2008, more than 15,000 patrols have destroyed more than 5300 motor pumps, the number required to carry out more than 2600 alluvial sites. During the same period, nearly 1 tonne of mercury was seized, which prevented it from being used to pollute rivers. Illegal orpainting generates a large financial manna, with some wells producing 3 to 4 kilograms of gold per month, equivalent to around 100,000 euros in gains. This, of course, generates a great deal of violence on the part of illegal oremen, particularly vis-à-vis the representatives of the State. It is also a matter, as you have pointed out, of working on a particularly difficult land, big as Portugal and made up of 90% of equatorial forest, with 720 kilometres of borders with Brazil and 540 kilometres with Suriname. The comparison with Notre-Dame-des-Landes is therefore not entirely appropriate, you will agree. Nevertheless, the means that we deploy are up to these challenges: I would like to say that all the techniques are being used, particularly in the area of judicial intelligence, to observe the communications of goldsmiths in such an extensive area. The Government had also decided to develop the diplomatic aspect of the fight against illegal orpainting by appointing an international relations liaison officer, specifically dedicated to the development of cooperation with Suriname and Guyana. Be assured that we continue this action with great determination and commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u73	The floor is open to Mr. Gabriel Serville, although speaking time has expired – I would like to remind everyone that each question cannot exceed six minutes, the Government's reply and the reply of the Member included.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u74	Mr Secretary of State, I hear your explanations, but the feeling we have in Guyana is that the Government is transporting water into a punctured basket: as many sites destroyed, as many sites rebuilt in the wake. It would be time to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to better understand what was happening in that territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u75	Mr Christophe Jerretie, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 708, on the control of the driving skills of older people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u76	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, I am not the first to question you on this subject, and it would certainly be futile to think that I will be the last; I regret it, and we all regret it. I would like to draw your attention to road safety, particularly the driving of seniors. On September 15, 2018, in Turenne, in my department, La Corrèze, a terrible accident involving an 85-year-old motorist was to be regretted, causing the death of a 15-month-old child. At each drama, emotion is infinite, and each of these cases feeds complex debates, which we know to be sensitive, on the conditions of a potential specific control of the elderly, currently non-existent. As you know, only a general possibility is provided: that which allows the prefect to prescribe a medical examination following the reporting of a particular situation. But this is obviously not enough: we must go beyond it. We, the elected representatives, receive the victims' families without being able to give them an answer, only being able to see the situation. Certainly, in this debate, we must not mislead and stigmatize older people for their share of responsibility, because we know that older people are not the main culprits of accidents. If I ask you this question, it is my objective to strengthen prevention. Moreover, in our communes, we open the possibility for the elderly, particularly pensioners, to take part in refresher courses on the road code as well as training courses in simulators, particularly in my commune in Naves. It is noted that these sessions, organized by the CCAS, are very popular, but unfortunately they are based on volunteerism. Comparing European countries, there is a great deal of diversity and no guidance. In Italy, for example, drivers must renew their licences every ten years with a medical certificate and every two years from the age of 80. In Germany, as in France, there are no administrative limits on validity. As a result, no one was able to determine the most reasonable line to follow on this issue. The stake is, however, significant, because it is necessary to reconcile the freedom to go and come with the responsibility of everyone to save lives, especially when it affects the youngest, a very delicate subject. Where are we in the reflection on improving prevention? Imposing is, of course, always tricky, but perhaps the right formula is to incentivize. Mr Secretary of State, do you have any information on this subject so that we can respond to the family I mentioned, as well as to the others concerned on French territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u77	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u78	Mr Jerretie, as you rightly recall, older drivers cause fewer accidents than others. On the other hand, they are more likely to be killed in a physical accident, their physical fragility, which increases with age, explaining an increase in the mortality rate of these drivers after 75 years: twenty-three people killed per cent injured hospitalized, compared with eleven among those under 65. In general, older drivers, whose abilities are declining, compensate by adopting a more cautious behaviour. The Government, which wishes to preserve the mobility and autonomy of seniors, promotes a number of initiatives for senior drivers. Thus, as you mentioned, associations, local authorities, health insurance funds and insurers, with the support of the State, organise courses to update their knowledge and raise awareness of their limitations. Similarly, a wide awareness of medical fitness for driving is regularly conducted for health professionals and seniors. The January 2018 Interdepartmental Road Safety Committee also decided to raise the awareness of treating physicians to discuss the subject with their patients. In addition, the National Road Safety Council is currently working on the topic of "senior, mobility, driving", and will issue its findings to the Government within a few months. In terms of regulations, articles R. 226-1 and R. 221-10 of the Road Traffic Code provide for periodic medical examination for persons with a medical condition who are incompatible with the issuance or renewal of a driving licence or are likely to give rise to the issuance of a driving licence of limited validity. The drivers concerned are required to declare any medical condition, otherwise their personal liability may be incurred in the event of an accident. These provisions are supplemented by article R. 221-14 of the Road Traffic Code, which allows relatives, when they deem it necessary, to report to the Prefect, who may then impose a medical check on the holder of the driver's licence. This important provision requires consideration on a case-by-case basis; The prefects pay great attention to this. On the other hand, because of its lack of efficiency, it is not intended to introduce a specific medical check for senior drivers, beyond the devices I have just recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u79	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u80	I thank the Secretary of State for the clarity of his answer. I am still waiting for the results of the study of the National Road Safety Council to transmit them to the people concerned: they will complete his response, which was very frank, very direct and very fair.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u81	Mr Jean-Louis Masson, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No. 713 concerning the national police force in Hyères.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u82	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, I would like first of all to express the gratitude of the elected representatives and of mine for your visit to Toulon, together with Minister Castaner, two weeks ago. It has been a long time since we called for the arrival of the Minister of the Interior because the problems in this area are important. You have seen the very poor state of the central police station, as well as the situation in our neighbourhoods, especially in Toulon, La Seyne-sur-Mer and Hyères, where violence continues to develop. You have also seen the fight between criminal gangs against the backdrop of drug trafficking, immigrating young people at an early age, and the hostage taking of the population. You also saw that the crime and crime figures were not good: more murders linked to rivalries, more violence, more rape, more trafficking. You have committed – I dare not say that you have made the promise – to strengthen the staff of the police station of twenty-two officials and to examine the passage of the Val des Rougières district, in Hyères, in the area of republican reconquest. I therefore ask you two specific questions before national representation. First, do you confirm that the twenty-two posts of civil servants will be supplemented by the fifty-five retirements, which must be replaced, starting in September? Then, what about the ranking in the republican reconquest zone of the Val des Rougières district in Hyères, where the situation continues to deteriorate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u83	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u84	Mr. Masson, in terms of security, the expectations of the French are strong and the Government is fully mobilized to meet them. Among those expectations is the fight against drug trafficking, which you mentioned. I confirm that in Hyères, this expectation is strong and entirely justified. As you know, because we had the opportunity to discuss it, with Christophe Castaner, during our trip to Toulon and Hyères, a determined action is being taken to combat trafficking: daily consumer arrests, searches of the common parts of buildings in sensitive neighbourhoods – notably in Val des Rougières, the city of the Bosquets and the city of the Maurels –, surveillance devices targeting sellers, watchmen or customers. The objective, recalled in the agreement signed at the Hyères police station, is to make the most of police operations and to put constant pressure on traffic leaders. In 2018, the police station seized more than 6 kilograms of cannabis, while nearly 35,000 euros in cash were seized in the first three months of 2019. In Hyères, forensic police officers are also mobilized. The judicial police branch of Toulon, strengthened in 2018 and which will be strengthened again in September of this year, e.g. elucidated a double attempt to settle accounts, in July 2018, in the city of Bosquets. In addition, an enhanced control protocol for the fight against drug trafficking in the Var has just been signed to increase coordination between the police services. The department will soon benefit from an operational narcotics intelligence unit, dedicated to the full sharing of information among all services to better dismantle the networks. Thus, in the Var, we rely both on police action on the public road and on the dismantling of networks in depth, which is fundamental. This action requires means. I would therefore like to give you a few figures. In the Var, the national police have 1713 officers, compared to 1684 at the end of 2016, and they will be 1721 by the month of October next. The public security district of Hyères has 112 staff members, which has been stable since the end of 2016, but with a deficit of 2 staff members in the management and enforcement corps compared to the actual reference strength of 110. There are regular departmental reinforcements and specific reinforcements in the summer. Thus, during the summer period, Hyères will benefit from seasonal reinforcements, up to 7 officials, and the Var as a whole will benefit from the reinforcement of mobile forces units. I have taken note of the questions you have asked and will answer them very clearly. The inclusion of the Val des Rougières district in the policy of republican reconquest districts has not been planned, because of a problem of territorial discontinuity, as I explained to you on the spot. I repeat, however, what I have said at the Hyères police station: the personnel that will be deployed in the planned republican reconquest district in Toulon and La Seyne-sur-Mer will also be able, in the event of difficulties, to come to strengthen the Hyères sector on an ad hoc basis. Above all, I take note of your willingness to see the strength of the constituency of Hyères increased: I repeat to you, in front of the national representation, that I will pay the greatest attention to it, believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u85	Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor for a very brief reply, because the time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u86	I thank the Secretary of State for his listening on the ground and for the precise answers he has given. However, the obligation of means is coupled with an obligation of result. I also want to acknowledge the work of police officers and gendarmes in the field, who engage with professionalism. You have cited a number of results: they are to be put to their credit. I would like to see the Government soon put to good use the commitments made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u87	Mrs Danièle Obono spoke of her question, No 697, concerning the financing of sociolinguistic workshops.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u88	My question, which was addressed to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, relates to sociolinguistic workshops. Since the beginning of my term of office, I have been asked by many associations about the tightening by the Ministry of the Interior of the financing of sociolinguistic workshops – the ASLs – to the only first-time foreigners. If we wanted to question the Minister for the Cohesion of the Territories, it is because we consider it problematic to make this funding dependent on the Ministry of the Interior alone, whereas the sociolinguistic workshops contribute, from our point of view, to the integration of foreign people wishing to learn French or to improve their knowledge of French, thus to the cohesion of the territories. The choice to tighten this funding, which is based on a purely accounting logic, has at least two major and harmful consequences. The first negative effect concerns people who want to learn. Indeed, this decision severely reduces access to sociolinguistic workshops for people who have been living in the territory for a long time, since they are now reserved for first-time arrivals. A social centre in my constituency, which organizes many such workshops, estimates that only 12% of their audience are eligible. Thus, although demand is extremely high, access is restricted due to the new criteria enacted in 2017. The second negative effect concerns associations offering French courses. Not all technical arguments will hide the reality: associations have less means to implement these workshops. While they are already running after pieces of candles to succeed in proposing these activities of general interest, they find themselves forced to refuse people who would still need these trainings. They have also fired the alarm bell several times, with the French for All movement, organizing rallies. I would like to pay tribute to the day-to-day activities of these associations and their members, the vast majority of whom are volunteers, who provide the indispensable link for the learning of the French language, which is at stake for social and territorial cohesion. We believe that it is inconceivable to restrict access to the language for people who have arrived several years ago, often women, and who have decided to improve their knowledge of the language in order to integrate more easily into the social and economic fabric. In February 2018, the Taché report called for everyone to have access to the language, without any administrative criteria, as I recall. The sociolinguistic workshops allow thousands of people to improve their language skills each year as part of the project they determine themselves. The associative portage of French courses allows, beyond language skills, to work on citizenship and collective engagement, in a logic of local integration. By restricting access to the French language and by dispersing the budgets allocated to associations, your government makes the choice, once again, to oppose the public, in line with the policies implemented since 2017. We would therefore like to know what answer you are prepared to give to these associations, which provide an essential service for social cohesion, to enable them to cope with their budgetary difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u89	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u90	Mrs Obono, you are asking me about the financing of sociolinguistic workshops for first-time foreigners. Integration is a priority policy for the Government. If we want to ensure the proper integration of foreigners who come regularly to France, we must first accompany them to ensure their linguistic integration, I naturally join you on this point. As we know, the first years are decisive. For this reason, the Government has decided to significantly strengthen efforts in this area for first-time foreigners. Thus, as the Interdepartmental Committee on Integration of 5 June 2018 noted, the integration journey has been thoroughly renovated, with a doubling of French hours and hours of civic education, and the introduction of enhanced support for employment. From now on, under the Republican integration contract, specific language training courses are offered to foreigners whose French level is below the Al level of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages: training courses of 100, 200 or 400 hours, or even 600 hours for non-readers, non-scriptors and non-educated foreigners previously, are provided by providers of the French Immigration and Integration Office. The Office also offers language training from 100 hours to the A2 level and from 50 hours to the B1 level. In addition to these training courses throughout the national territory, the Ministry of the Interior provides financial support, through its territorial network and in line with local needs, to non-profit actors involved in the language training of first-time foreigners, particularly in the framework of sociolinguistic workshops, which occupy a primary function in the field of community training. The training activity for foreigners who have been present in France for more than five years, led by the ASL, which is not intended exclusively for first-time arrivals, can be subsidized by decision of the Prefect by another budget programme of the State, the 147, "Politics of the city". This allows associative structures to sustain their support for migrants who wish to continue to be accompanied over the duration of their presence in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u91	I give you the floor again, Mrs Obono, for a very brief reply, because you have already been very prolific in asking your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u92	My question, which, I repeat, was addressed to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, concerned the problem of narrowing the scope of the scheme to the first arrivals alone. You have indicated that it is not exclusive when, in fact, associations and prefectures apply this very restrictively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u94	I hope you will be able to give instructions to associations to offer this service to all foreigners who wish to access it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u96	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor to put his question, No 699, on the renewal of the French fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u97	In the absence of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, my question is to the Norman minister present at the bench of the Government! "Building a new boat is 50 % courage and 50 % madness," I was told Friday by a fishing boss from Cherbourg who took the risk of launching two multipurpose fishing vessels, built in Dieppe by Manche marine industry, to be able to transmit the torch to his son and grandson. As you know, the average age of fishing vessels exceeds 25 years. At the current pace, it will take more than a century to renew our fleet, knowing that, within three years, 5000 sailors, including 2,000 fishing bosses, will retire, that fishermen are struggling to recruit and that the fleet's old age is an obstacle to the attractiveness of the trade. A new boat is 30% less energy consumption, a considerable result for the environment and for the economic balance of the artisans, on which the rise of the gas oil price weighs, at 48 cents per litre at present, compared with 31 cents a few months ago. Outside the cooperative system which prevails over certain territories – I was in Boulogne-sur-Mer and in Etaples yesterday – fishing companies have no longer been accompanied in construction since the end of public aid, which has not been considered Eurocompatible since 2004. The end of public aid has put a brake on the modernisation of the fleet. I have, at home, at Tréport, a craftsman who has planned the realization on a French yard of a multi-purpose trawler of 25 meters in replacement of a boat of 21 meters. It is also a beautiful transmission project, with a crew of eight sailors. The boss, Jean Rouit, 63, put the bag down, but he wants to consolidate the recovery by his son, in an uncertain context, marked notably by the blurry surrounding the Brexit. A new boat costs 4.5 million euros; The walk of the bridge is high. For these examples of " courage" and "insanity", how many fishermen have to give up, for lack of accompaniment, letting our fishing capabilities go into the hands of foreign investors and speeding up the process of capital concentration, to the detriment of an artisanal fishery, respectful of the resource, providing jobs at sea and on land, including, as we can see, in the naval industry? The parliamentary fact-finding mission on fisheries, which I have the honour of chairing, notes, in the course of its hearings, that there is a way for a more ambitious fisheries policy, with a vision and objectives commensurate with our maritime assets, without prejudice to European competence. To facilitate the installation of young fishermen and the renewal of generations, strategic issues for our fisheries, to strengthen the versatility of boats, indispensable for the sustainable management of the resource, to improve – I know that you are sensitive to this argument, Minister responsible for local authorities – the carbon balance of our vessels without waiting for the outcome of the discussions on the EMFF, the European Fund for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, would you be in favour of the establishment, in consultation with the profession, of a strictly conditioned tool that allows to mobilise public investments to accompany the exits of fleets of old ships, a kind of break-up plan, obviously conditioned by the renewal of the fleet and the construction of new units?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u98	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u99	Mr Jumel, the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has entrusted me with the task of apologizing to you for his absence and replying to you: a Norman minister responds to a Norman MP under the supervision of a Breton president!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u100	Attentive about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u101	You are right, Mr Jumel: French fishing is facing an aging. On the one hand, French vessels have an average age of 27 years and, on the other hand, almost 40% of French fishermen are over 45 years of age. To counter this trend, the State and the industry are fully mobilized, of course, first of all as regards the management of our national fishing capacity envelope. The national arrangements for managing this envelope were thoroughly revised in 2017 to speed up the renewal of French fishing vessels, enable them to gain safety and modernity, and encourage the installation of young professionals. This reform, as well as the favourable economic situation in the fisheries sector, is bearing fruit: the number of new construction projects in metropolitan France has thus increased from 26 in 2012 to 91 in 2018, a very significant increase. As you know, the European legal framework has prohibited any public aid for the renewal of the fleet since 2006. However, at the request of professional and parliamentary representatives, both national and European, including those of our overseas departments, the European Commission planned in 2017 a specific exception for the renewal of the fishing fleet of the ultramarine territories. The continuation of the renewal of the French fishing fleet now requires a diversification of the sources of financing of armaments. Finally, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, the EMFF, which you mentioned, can support private investments on board existing vessels to improve safety and working conditions, improve energy efficiency, offer prospects for supporting the installation of young fishermen and support innovation. I will finally say a word about training. Although the hiring opportunities are real in the sector, most shipowners, shipowners, do not find young sailors to hire. We therefore also have a stake here: that of making maritime high schools more attractive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u102	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u103	I thank you for that answer, minister, but in reality, without input and without the ability to sell its old boat and the transferable individual quotas that go with it, a 30-year-old fisherman can no longer get from a bank the 3 million needed to build a new boat. Consideration should therefore be given to the introduction of an innovative system of consolidated public aid to enable fleet exits. That's the purpose of the mission I'm driving.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u104	The next speaker is Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, to put his question, No 705, on aid to farmers excluded from simple disadvantaged areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u105	Mr Minister responsible for local and regional authorities, a year ago, after years of procrastination, France finally published the new map of simple disadvantaged areas, on the basis of criteria and a grid which, alas, had been predetermined for too long. While this new map is generally fairer, in particular in that it integrates in these areas communes which were not included in it, it has proved to be particularly unfair, excluding from the scheme communes which deserve the designation of less-favoured areas. This is obviously the case in Gers, where 109 farmers have lost this aid, most of which are located in extremely steep hillside areas, where there is no alternative to breeding. We had requested that the accompanying allowances in years n+1 and n+2 be revised upwards. That has been done and I thank the Government for that. On the other hand, our majority had committed themselves to proposing a transformation plan to accompany these breeders. The farmers, the Chamber of Agriculture, the prefecture and I had made proposals, but they have not yet responded. In particular, I had made proposals on renewable energy, since these farmers often have very large hangars which can be easily equipped with solar panels. It is time, Minister, to honour our commitments to these herders, for whom these allowances often represent the bulk of their remuneration, because it is low. My question is simple: when will we be able to propose this accompanying plan for our farmers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u106	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u107	Mr Cazeneuve, let me ask you again to excuse the absence of the Minister for Agriculture and Food and to read out the answer he has prepared for you. The revision of the delineation of disadvantaged agricultural areas, the SDAs, is a European obligation, it should be recalled. This revision is the result of a long and difficult work. It was necessary to determine criteria that would allow the various French situations to be taken into account in the best possible way, while ensuring their robustness and fairness of application throughout the country. Work to define this new zoning has been initiated with the aim of defining a map that is clear and meaningful after the entry into force of the CAP 2019. After more than two years of consultation, France now has a map based on scientific principles, homogeneous and transparent. On the basis of the current work, 14210 communes will be classified, compared with 10429 in the previous zoning, and 50074 will be newly classified. The reform is therefore positive for the French farm. However, as you recalled, the Government's concern now goes to the farms of the 1293 communes that come out of the zoning. The aim is to accompany the exiters by seeking to put in place, as close as possible to the ground, the most appropriate tools. Thus, the State has created an appropriate system for the overall audit of their agricultural holdings. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food finances diagnostics up to a limit of EUR 800, which can be supplemented by those of local authorities, up to a total limit of EUR 1500. In addition, degressive aid will be paid to farmers leaving the ZDS for the 2019 and 2020 CAP years. As you said, the Government decided to retain the highest possible amount of compensation, i.e. 80 per cent of ICHN's new reference – the natural disability compensatory allowance – in 2019, and 40 per cent in 2020. Outgoing farmers will also be eligible for the arrangements in the main accompanying plan for farms in difficulty. Finally, young farmers will be able to continue to benefit from their increase until the end of their contract. Diversification of the income of farmers in France remains a major priority. Renewable energy is an important resource basket that needs to be developed. The Government has already done so with a number of measures, particularly with regard to methanization: we need biogas in our energy mix, and farmers can participate in the production of this green gas, with the right to the injection that you have just voted for. We must be able to continue to improve things, and I know that Minister of State François de Rugy and the entire Government, together with the deputies, are mobilized on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u108	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u109	There is a need to support farmers in practice and to look at what is possible within the framework of this vast investment plan. They made specific requests, as did the prefectures. It is on these points that we must help them, direct them to the right aids, the right investments. They are waiting for a concrete response.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u110	Mr Matthieu Orphelin has the floor to put his question, No 728, on the accompanying measures for farmers in the lower Angelian valleys.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u111	As a local elected official, Minister responsible for local and regional authorities, you know how important it is to respect the word given on the ground. Today, the low Angelvin valleys, a formidable breeding area to the north of Angers, a formidable reservoir of biodiversity thanks to the joint work of farmers and environmental protection associations, face a real problem. These are flood-prone areas classified as such as underprivileged areas. However, part of the lower Angelian valleys was excluded for no reason, except by the application of stupid and wicked criteria. Of course, there are many common law mechanisms – you just recalled – to accompany these areas, but in this case the situation in the lower Angelian valleys is very problematic. The risk of discouragement of farmers is high. All actors on the ground, starting with mayors or the Chamber of Agriculture, regardless of their political colours, have mobilized. A year ago, at the Ministry of Agriculture, we were promised a real accompaniment. A delegation of the department's directors general even spent a day in the field, a little over eleven months ago, to assess the problems. She assured us that she understood the situation and informed us of her willingness to accompany her. However, not all commitments made on that day have been fulfilled. In particular, the Directors-General had informed that a dedicated follow-up would be set up, for example on investment projects, collective projects of farmers in that territory, with a follow-up committee to meet every two months to monitor the progress made. A year later, nothing: there is no follow-up committee! So I'm warning you again. Every time I go to Briollay, to Tiercé, local elected officials and farmers tell me that the state does not respect the word given. I repeat: all the actors in the field want to get away with it, everyone was satisfied with this visit by the Directors-General of the Ministry of Agriculture. Great work had been done, very strong commitments had been made but, eleven months later, the account was not at all there. I would therefore like to warn you once again, because here too, the credibility of the national word is at stake. The low Angelian valleys are a breeding treasure in our region, a treasure of biodiversity. We count on you to go beyond the common law measures that you may recall again. An additional commitment had been made to accompany us. We were assured that we were understood. I really count on you, like all citizens, farmers and local elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u112	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u113	Your specific question calls for a precise and practical answer. One: I do not go back to my reply to Mr Cazeneuve, but of course it applies to you – as I say in the Official Journal – in particular with regard to all the global accompanying measures that have been put on the table, which must be coordinated with local and regional authorities. In this case, I think I know that, in your region, as the minister responsible for local and regional authorities, things are going well. Two: as far as you are concerned, I quote the criteria "beasts and villains", I note that all threshold effects, all zonings are considered favourably when entering and unfavorably when leaving. The work of Ministers Travert and Guillaume, in connection with the administrations, as you said, has been long, tedious, but this has resulted in unprecedented contributions. Indeed, many successive powers had set aside the issue of ICHN zoning – compensation for natural handicaps – or ZDS – simple disadvantaged areas, which had become a sea snake. It was therefore necessary to do so courageously, and the method used should be welcomed, even if it may sometimes lead to misunderstandings. Three: Well, I'm not elected from your department, I obviously share your view on the treasure of breeding in the lower Angelian valleys. Four: I love the state, so I love it when it keeps its word. Rather than a long speech, I therefore propose that you tell the Minister of Agriculture, but perhaps also your new prefect, René Bidal, who will soon take up his new duties in your department, that this follow-up committee should be set up without further delay in order to accommodate the various comments and requests of the profession, in connection of course with the consular organisations, in particular the Chamber of Agriculture and, also, with the trade unions. At the end of the session, I will write to the Minister of Agriculture's office and send the message to Prefect Bidal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u114	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u115	Thank you for that very clear answer. The installation of the follow-up committee would provide a good first file for the arrival of the new prefect, which we welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u116	Former Prefect of the Eure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u117	I thank you for your political intervention – in the common sense of the political word – on this issue so important for our farmers and for biodiversity, because without herding, it disappears in these beautiful Angelian valleys, where you are invited.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u118	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor to put his question, No. 718, on land speculation in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u119	I would like to draw your attention to the extent of real estate speculation in Corsica and I will give you eloquent figures. According to the Ministry's data and statistical studies department published by the daily Les Échos, Corsica is the only region whose number of building permits increased by 26% between March 2018 and March 2019. With the exception of New Aquitaine, where the increase is 4.1% – six times less than Corsica – all other figures are negative. The island's population growth rate is impressive: since 2010, the population has increased by 28,103 people, while deaths exceeded births by 474 units. It is therefore the migration surplus which constitutes the exclusive engine of this growth three times higher than the French average. This considerable rate of renewal is upsetting the Corsican society. To these newcomers are added investors. Thus, according to INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – 53.3% of dwellings built in Corsica are secondary residences, while on the continent this rate is 11%. The share of secondary residences in housing is the highest in metropolitan areas, 37.2% compared to 9.6% on average in France. In short, Corsicans, who are suffering from this explosion of property increased by speculation, are finding it increasingly difficult to access affordable housing. Clearly, the current legislative and normative framework is no longer sufficient to regulate a market that is engulfing and destroying everything on its way: the environment, human relations, solidarity, the architectural aspect. In this context, I would like to know what appropriate measures – or the adaptation of measures – you intend to implement. Do you envisage, in particular, allowing co-management of land with the territorial executive – we have discussed it here – in order to stop this speculative phenomenon? We bitterly regret the attitude of the State, which, for the time being, mobilizes the mayors, in direct competition with the chamber of territories, thus with the territorial executive. It's bad politics. More broadly, are you prepared to take into account the cultural, social, economic and thus political peculiarities of Corsica through appropriate laws – or by adapting laws? These are fundamental questions for the majority of Corsicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u120	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u121	First of all, I apologize for the absence of Julien Denormandie, the minister responsible for these questions, who instructed me to answer you. First of all, I will do so globally, because the land question concerns the whole of the French nation, and then, specifically, as far as Corsica is concerned. The Government pays particular attention to the phenomenon of land speculation, which has been said many times. The Prime Minister has just entrusted the MP Jean-Luc Lagleize, last April, with a mission to control the price of land. It will build the capacity of communities to combat land speculation. Without waiting for its proposals, communities already have very useful tools – you have talked a lot about measures but, as a local elected one, I would rather talk about tools – to control the cost of land and allow the construction of housing – social or not – at affordable prices. I am thinking of urban planning and housing programming documents, a clear tool of decentralization, the right of urban preemption, which can be effective in mobilizing land and regulating prices, solidarity-based land organizations and real solidarity leases, which allow for the dissociation of land and buildings, and which the Government particularly encourages. More broadly, I am thinking of the role of public land, local or national institutions, which are popular with all elected representatives. With regard specifically to Corsica, it is important to recall the role played by the Land Office of Corsica, which you know well, a public establishment of the community with specific status created in 2014, which can intervene for the benefit of the communities by bringing them its technical and financial engineering. It may set up land reserves for social housing, whether in accession or free, as a principal residence, which will benefit potentially less favoured populations. This institution benefits from an assigned tax resource but also from appropriations provided under the exceptional investment programme for 2015-2020. The Government urges the Corsican communities – town halls, territorial communities – to make greater use of this tool. I do not believe in sterile opposition between the state and local and regional authorities, not more in Corsica than elsewhere. On such delicate issues, on the contrary, we need to add our strength. This tool works well, I think, but it can be used more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u122	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u123	I will answer you with one word: you would grow up taking into account the democratic will expressed by the electoral corps of Corsica through universal suffrage. As it stands, from this point of view, the policy of the Government in Corsica is undemocratic – failing to take into account the majority will – sometimes provocative, believe me, and in any case counterproductive. Listen to what a congressman from Corsica says!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u124	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 723, on public service houses and neighbourhoods in the city's politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u125	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities to the creation of public service houses and their development, in particular, in the neighbourhoods of city policy. Already, 1300 such houses exist in France in rural or urban areas. In Le Mans, I took an active part, as a parliamentarian, in the mobilization of public or private bodies responsible for a public service mission – state, employment centre, social and mutual security, local missions... – so that they could participate in the establishment of a service house for the public in the southern districts of Le Mans from a social centre. These public service houses, which are designed to meet, according to a one-stop-shop logic, the needs of publics either physically remote from the administrations or need advice in the face of administrative complexity, are very much expected. While observations and recommendations exist to improve the visibility of the services offered, the quality of the agents – who have to respond to multiple demands – and even the performance of the services and the services and accompaniments offered – for example, the cost of the service rendered – these houses are an interesting alternative to bringing the administration closer to our citizens. They also make it possible to carry out procedures for which citizens themselves bear costs of travelling by car or public transport or, in addition, of a subscription to the net. In these circumstances, I would like to know what measures you are considering to ensure the presence of public services as close as possible to the inhabitants of Le Mans, in particular, in the neighbourhoods where our most modest citizens live, as is the case with my constituency. I also wish to know what means the State intends to devote to this achievement, bearing in mind that, if the other contributors are ready to participate, it cannot refuse funding. I note that its aid could take the form of a contribution to the various bodies to which it delegates public service activities for their presence in the territories and in close proximity to the users. Finally, I would like to make it clear that, for the past year, we still do not have a specification. We are therefore moving forward not blindly, but without the necessary visibility to set up, in practice, this service house for the public in the popular districts of southern Le Mans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u126	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u127	I thank you for your question, which lies halfway between the public service houses, the MSAPs, which you have described widely, and what will be, tomorrow, France service, this tool which will be very useful at the end of the Grand national debate, because it is by definition a tool of proximity. Here are some elements to answer you as precisely as possible, by reviewing what is already under way in this area and what will be on the agenda of the Government's work and, of course, Parliament. Today there are 1340 public service houses covering about eight hundred cantons out of the country's two thousand, the aim being that there is at least one such structure in each French canton, because the challenge in terms of proximity is extremely important, especially in rural cantons. As a sign of the rise of the MSAPs, the Prime Minister announced the creation of five hundred new houses within six months. But the quantity is not enough. The offer must also be of quality. Since its level varies from one structure to another, it is now time to standardise it: each house will have to offer a minimum basket of services, which will be completed according to each territory. In the priority areas of city policy, for example, it is on digital inclusion, on the difficulties of illiteracy and on access to administrative documents that efforts will have to be made, with local elected representatives being left to improve their offer from the common base. I can't talk about quality without talking about training. The issue of officers working in these houses is a major one, because there is nothing worse than discouraging citizens from using the services offered because they are not able to answer them. The question of funding remains. Each structure today receives an average of 25000 euros per year, which should be increased to 30000 euros per year to improve the qualitative leap that we want to make. The Caisse des dépôts will also invest 30 million euros and accompany postal structures, which will also be assisted by the equalisation funds, in their transformation into MSAP. But as much as financial issues, human resources issues will be fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u128	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u129	I take note of these elements, but I stress the urgency of moving forward on this issue. It is sometimes discouraging, especially in fragile territories, to see nothing come when we have been waiting for more than a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u130	Mrs Pitollat has the floor to put her question, No 700, on indoor air quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u131	I would like to draw the attention of the Government and the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition to a subject that is of great interest to me: indoor air quality. We spend 80% of our time inside. Studies have shown that one in ten homes is multi-polluted, that classrooms are poorly ventilated and therefore very quickly saturated with CO, which alters the concentration of our children. Every year there are 28,000 new cases of respiratory diseases in France, and 20,000 people die prematurely due to indoor air pollution, whose socio-economic cost is estimated at 20 billion euros per year. It is no longer a matter of doubt but a matter of decision-making. It is time to address this major public health issue, which, we recognize, does not attract as much attention as outdoor air quality. However, tools exist, notably through the ELAN Act – which sets out changes in housing, development and digital technology – under which the construction and housing code will now have to take into account the health of the occupants of a building. In the territories, consideration of indoor air quality remains complicated. I had proposed that the Observatoire de la qualité de l'air l'intérieur, the OQAI, should have its own legal personality, and that its tasks should be clarified, in particular with regard to the support of communities which, since the Grenelle 2 law, have an obligation to monitor indoor air quality, but which do not receive any support in terms of training. Instead, it was decided that the administration would conduct an inspection mission on air governance. A year later, can you tell us what's going on with this inspection mission? What have you decided to effectively combat indoor air pollution, which is far too expensive for our health?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u132	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u133	Madam Member, thank you for engaging as you do on environmental health issues and for playing this role as a watchdog, assessment and monitoring of the Government's actions. Your investment is very valuable. As you say, air quality is one of the main expectations expressed by our citizens in terms of health and the environment. Gradually, thanks to people like you, awareness-raising is progressing in this area. It should be recalled that 50000 French people die each year because of air pollution, many of which are due to poor indoor air quality. That is why we decided to make it the priority theme of the next national plan "My environment, my health". A specific working group has been set up to propose concrete actions. It is intended to address all aspects of this complex issue, in particular the monitoring of indoor air quality in schools receiving the public, particularly schools. It will also address the issue of labelling of consumer products and public information on air quality in housing and transport. Finally, he will reflect on the role of the various actors, including construction professionals, architects, urban planners and health professionals. This national plan "My environment, my health" will be presented at the end of 2019, after a long phase of dialogue with stakeholders, in which you participate very actively. With regard to the future of the Indoor Air Quality Observatory, the Government had just received the findings of an inspection mission, which had identified the need for better coordination between the Centre's work and those undertaken by the Government. This issue will be addressed in conjunction with the development of the next plan. One of our tasks will be to ensure that all actors move at the same speed within the framework of the plan "my environment, my health" and that of the various public policies implemented elsewhere. Proposals will be made in this direction in the second half of 2019. So we still have important work in perspective, which it will be important to carry out collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u134	Mrs Claire Pitollat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u135	I will naturally be very involved in the indoor air working group of the Fourth National Health-Environment Plan. I stress from now on that indoor air monitoring needs to be strengthened and that it would be desirable for us to better accompany the territories, which are improving and renovating the buildings, on the occasion of the new act of decentralization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u136	Mrs Jacqueline Maquet, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 704, on the issue of methanisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u137	I wish to draw the Government's attention to the challenges of biomethane development in France. Produced locally, promoting the energy autonomy of the regions, offering the possibility of valuing waste and ensuring a complementary income for farmers, this energy is an asset for the planet as well as for the territories. Therefore, the Multiannual Energy Programming Act sets ambitious objectives for the development of this sector as part of the deepening of the French energy mix. However, the target of 10% biomethane injected by 2020 calls for a concrete dialogue with both industry professionals and people. Indeed, this bold target is accompanied by a desire to revise the buying-in rates, which would be much lower than the current cost of production. Therefore, meeting the set ambition becomes complex, if not impossible. At the same time, citizens and local elected officials are demanding more information and protection. This industry generates nuisances that require information and co-construction work with local actors, which unfortunately is not done today. It would therefore be desirable to consider departmental installation schemes. We are waiting for accompanying work to be done, so that biogas is a real opportunity for the territories, for the ecological transition and for the economy. Can you tell us what the department's roadmap is in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u138	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u139	Madam Member, I know that the development of biomethane is a sensitive subject for me to have been very displaced in France, particularly in your home in the Pas-de-Calais region. I am convinced that, well framed, this sector can become a real lever of development for our territories. I know that you share this view, because the social and environmental benefits that can be expected from it are enormous. To succeed, we need the trust of citizens and the support of local elected officials. The energy transition and the development of decarbonised energies are a priority for the Government, which is detailed in the multi-annual energy programming, which makes the development of the biomethane sector one of the key areas of our action, as evidenced by the substantial and unprecedented financial effort of the State, which amounts to €8 billion over the next ten years. In addition, as part of the consultation phase on this multi-year energy programming project, the Government is working with the sector to study the developments it is proposing in terms of public support for methanisation. Finally, we are fully committed to helping industry players reduce production costs and maximize the number of projects that can be supported. The Methanization Working Group has identified and implemented measures to this end. We rely more than ever on your knowledge of the field to help us support the development of this sector, whose social and environmental issues are major.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u140	I give the floor to Mrs Jacqueline Maquet for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u141	Madam Secretary of State, I call for your vigilance on price revision, because it is absolutely necessary to avoid breaking the nascent dynamics. I then repeat that departmental management schemes are indispensable. Finally, I cannot overemphasize the importance of information, consultation, consultation and co-production. This is the dream for the production of these projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u142	Mr Frédéric Reiss, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No 712, on the role of geothermal energy in the multi-annual energy programme – EPP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u143	Deep geothermal is a very promising industry, which allows the co-production of heat and decarbonized electricity. Today, it is not a question of installing power plants for this sector. On the other hand, it is vital for the EPP to support deep geothermal energy through a transitional remuneration supplement for electricity produced, for several reasons. The first step is to facilitate the supply of green energy to heat networks; heat must then be produced for industrial purposes – I can quote excellent examples in Alsace du Nord – Finally, we must support the energy transition in the territories where geothermal energy is the main renewable energy. The high-temperature geothermal industry is also contributing to the development of a new lithium production line, which could become highly strategic for our industry and guarantee France's independence and security of supply. Today, therefore, it is a matter of trusting investors by maintaining a legal and stable framework. In this context, a brutal halt to state support for deep geothermal power generation would be a very bad signal for investors. The introduction of degressive thresholds, in time and according to the amount of energy produced, would enable this sector to be further accompanied by future developments. Recent research confirms the potential of some territories to recover large amounts of lithium through geothermal drilling. What are the government's intentions with regard to high temperature geothermal energy, knowing that Alsace, the Rhône Valley, the Auvergne and the Pyrenees have an important potential for geothermal water?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u144	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u145	Mr President, I hear your concerns about the evolution of the tariff for the purchase of electricity produced by deep geothermal energy. I am aware that, for the Lower Rhine, this is an important issue. The Government is committed to a very ambitious and structured policy for the next ten years, detailed in the framework of multi-year energy programming, which aims at an unprecedented acceleration of the development of renewable energy and decarbonised energy. However, this must be done by focusing on cost control and relying on the most competitive channels. Because deep geothermal energy is one of the future projects that can reduce our carbon footprint, the Government supports the industry with very ambitious heat production targets – I have no doubt you have seen – for the energy transition of the territories and economic development. On the other hand, the PPE project proposes to limit the support scheme for electricity generation from geothermal energy only to projects which have already been the subject of a request for additional remuneration, taking into account the high costs of this sector. You can understand that we owe it to the French to ensure the balance between the development of decarbonised energies and the control of costs. Consultations with the industry are continuing, in particular on a possible reduction in production costs, which we aim to achieve a change in the scale of production in the sector. On the other hand, the possibility of bringing out a new lithium production line, linked to geothermal projects, is an issue for the French industry and we are very attentive to it. The extraction and valorisation of lithium benefits from the presence of French industrial players engaged internationally, which we support by promoting the development of a European battery industry. I assume that you have closely followed the major projects and the remarkable collaboration that have led to the creation of a new battery development industry. I am thinking in particular of the work done by the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Lemaire, and his German counterpart. As you can see, we are in order on both sides that you mentioned because these are real industrial issues – the main challenge is now to control costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u146	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor to put her question, No 716, on the financing of non-collective sanitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u147	Madam Secretary of State, my question, which could also have been addressed to the Minister of Economy and Finance, concerns the non-collective clean-up and the difficulties our citizens face in financing the upgrading of their facilities. People in my constituency face two difficulties. The first is linked to the peculiarity of the territory. The community of communes of the Forest, competent in sanitation, depends on two water agencies, the Seine-Normandie agency and the Loire-Bretagne agency, which apply policies to accompany individuals to carry out the work of bringing non-collective sanitation to standards different or even opposite. Depending on whether you live on one side of a street or on the other, or in a municipality or other neighbouring area, you can be accompanied financially or not to carry out work that can reach 20,000 euros. The inhabitants of my constituency face a second difficulty, due to the changes in the policies of the water agencies, attributable to the decisions of the Government. In fact, in the context of the latest financial laws, the latter has chosen to subtract a significant proportion of their income from these agencies. As a result, they had to resolve to review their policies to support individual projects. If one of the two agencies I mentioned continued the programmes undertaken and fulfilled its commitments, the other abruptly announced the end of the aid. Owners are therefore faced with sometimes insurmountable financial difficulties – some of them unable to restore their sanitation to standards without the subsidies expected and promised by water agencies. Without being able to provide the necessary responses to the decline in its life course, the State penalizes the inhabitants of the rural world and, beyond that, their environment. How can the Government respond to these rural owners to enable them to fulfil their health and environmental obligations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u148	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u149	Madam Member, you are drawing my attention to the specific problem in your constituency of funding for non-collective remediation. The issue of subsidies granted by water agencies to non-collective sanitation works was widely discussed in discussions on their eleventh intervention programme, covering the period 2019-2024. By letters dated 27 November 2017 and 27 July 2017, the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, asked the presidents of the basin committees to focus more on the actions of water agencies, promoting those that contribute to the reconquest of water quality and the biodiversity associated with it. As you know, it is urgent to preserve biodiversity. It is in this context that non-collective sanitation has not been identified as a departmental priority for action by water agencies. In the same way as the other directions set out in these letters, the Basin Committees were invited to decline them as best they could according to their specific issues. As a result, some Basin Committees have chosen not to completely abandon aid for non-collective sanitation, but to limit it to facilities identified as non-compliant and presenting risks to human health or a proven risk of environmental pollution. This is particularly the case of the two Loire-Bretagne and Seine-Normandie basins on which is located the community of communes of the Forest, in the Loiret. This solution, which emerged from the discussions held in the Loire-Bretagne and Seine-Normandie basin committees, seems to me to be a pragmatic compromise, as it fully contributes to the improvement of the quality of water bodies. The precise eligibility conditions and the terms of the grant, base and rate, however, vary from one agency to another – their definition falls within the scope of the decision of the Basin Committee, which is closest to the local reality. We believe that proximity is the right method, even if we keep in mind the main national priorities set by the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u150	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u151	The water agencies, however, had committed themselves! I really find it a pity that non-collective sanitation has not been identified as a priority of their interventions: the agencies abandon people to whom they had promised subsidies, and who find themselves isolated without having the means to comply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u152	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to raise her question, No. 721 on the risks of deconcentrating work on classified sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u153	My question relates to the risks associated with the total deconcentration of work authorizations to sites classified at the departmental prefect level. This alert follows various inquiries about the consequences of such a decision. A draft decree raises concerns in my territory that this divestment to the local level will lead to a weakening of the protection of classified sites. The national level seems to be best able to guarantee an independent decision free of any pressure on matters outside the scope of site protection, as well as a uniform doctrine of protection throughout the country. Decision-making within the Ministry is a safeguard against projects that would distort the heritage. The protection of classified sites, which cover less than 2% of the national territory, is a major issue, and the long-standing policy has proven its effectiveness in preserving the environment, resisting anthropoization, and preserving the heritage. My riding is home to the Erdre, which François I described as the "most beautiful river of France". Today, the Erdre preserved thanks to this policy which allows to limit the degradation of remarkable spaces and landscapes. A total deconcentration of decisions could result in infringements of these exceptional sites, particularly in areas where pressure is high for further development. The outskirts of Erdre, not far from Nantes, are under considerable pressure, like many other coastal or mountain sites. Ministerial authorization is now the guarantee of their protection. The policy of protecting classified sites is already organised as close as possible to the citizen. The Ministry intervenes at the last stage of the process, following a local technical instruction and consultation with local actors. The current level of deconcentration, which makes the prefect competent for the minor adjustments necessary for site management, already allows to link site protection and quick decision-making. Madam Secretary of State, what guarantees will you provide to local elected officials and policy makers of listed sites with regard to the preservation of these sites? How will you ensure the uniqueness of the doctrine of environmental protection in the territory? Finally, what are the reasons for changing – at the risk of distorting our heritage – a system that has proven its worth and works effectively?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u154	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u155	Madam Member of Parliament, the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, François de Rugy, who cannot be present this morning, asked me to answer you. You alert us to the risks associated with the decision taken by the Government to deconcentrate all permits for work on a classified site. I hear your concerns, but I want to reassure you. In line with the guidelines set by the Prime Minister in July 2018, the aim of this reform is to strengthen decision-making as close as possible to citizens – like me, you have heard their many requests for deconcentration, listening and participation. It is not a question of opposing, but of reconciling the protection of the quality of classified sites with the sustainable development of the territories. It is also a matter of simplifying administrative procedures and reducing decision-making times, which are urgent requests from our citizens – I am sure you have also heard them. This reform is therefore fully in line with the Government's desire to bring the administration closer to users and to make it more efficient and transparent. With regard to "the most beautiful river in France", be reassured, Madam Member: our policy remains the preservation of the state of the listed sites, so that they are neither denatured nor victims of anthropisation – any other choice would lead us to go back to fundamental achievements that have enabled us to preserve places such as the surroundings of Erdre. Therefore, safeguards are maintained. The derogatory and express nature of the permissions to work on a classified site remains, as well as the rule "silence means rejection". The reform of deconcentration also does not call into question the key role of State services in the territories, in particular the inspectors of the sites of the regional directorates of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. In addition, the opinion of the departmental commission on nature, landscapes and sites will remain mandatory, and the minister responsible for sites will retain and exercise his power of reference. At the national level, the Higher Commission for Sites, Perspectives and Landscapes will also maintain its missions. Finally, the Minister of State will ensure that the implementation of the reform in the territories is consistent and respectful of the fundamentals of site policy. This requirement will be reminded to the prefects to whom instructions will be directed. We want to strike a balance between a centralised and uniform policy, and the need to let go of the ballast in order to provide leadership and to promote the effectiveness of public policies as close to the ground as possible. We will take stock of the reform one year after its implementation. Madam Member, I know your concern to evaluate the Government's action: I count on you to remember this answer and remind us of our obligations within this time frame.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u156	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u157	The power of reference exists, but it is only a possibility and not a guarantee. We will be at the meeting of the evaluation, but we are already warning you: it is the unity of the preservation of the sites that is at stake, they can be subjected to crazy pressures by the metropolises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u158	The next item is the question by Mrs Patricia Lemoine, No. 726, concerning the properties of the banks of a watercourse and liability in the event of a collapse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u159	My question concerns the delicate situation of the collapse of the river banks, following floods, a situation which I personally faced in February 2018 as mayor of the commune of Condé-Sainte-Libiaire, in Seine-et-Marne, and which you also know, Madam Secretary of State, since you had done us the honor of moving around in these difficult circumstances. Indeed, our commune was the victim of a massive flood of the Marne and the Grand Morin, causing, on the Marne side, a first collapse of the banks in July 2018, then a second, much more important, at the beginning of 2019, forcing the closure of the only road serving more than forty houses. The issue of financing the restoration of the banks is therefore raised. Indeed, French law on the ownership and liability of watercourses is particularly complex, if not nebulous, particularly in the case of banks. Article L. 2124-11 of the General Code of Public Property seems to indicate that the maintenance of the watercourse and the banks is the responsibility of the public person who owns the public river estate, i.e. the State. But it does not specify whether the banks are included in this maintenance obligation and whether it includes their restoration in the event of a collapse. Furthermore, the NOTRe law – the new territorial organisation of the Republic – has transferred to public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation, since 1 January 2018, the competence of GEMAPI – aquatic management and flood prevention – but what about the watercourses that fall within the public river domain of the State? This seems to be the case for the Marne River, since it is managed by Ways navigable de France, without, however, a text stating it explicitly. Finally, another text complicates the task: article 33 of the very old law of 16 September 1807 seems to indicate that the construction of dikes along a river is the responsibility of those whose properties are thus protected, but there is also no distinct reference to banks, and what is covered by the term "protected property" is not clearly explained. At the point of the collapse of the banks at Condé-Sainte-Libiaire, the Marne is bordered by land several meters high, which thus cover the banks and extend to the road that has been closed to traffic. The public establishment Voies navigable de France makes them available to the Condéens, whose houses are on the other side of the way; In return, VNF requires an annual fee, which confirms to me in the analysis that it is the State that owns it. It should therefore logically finance, through VNF, the restoration of the banks. To date, however, the French navigable waterways establishment has consistently opposed this reading of the law, considering that it was up to the communities to finance the work. Madam Secretary of State, the situation is complex, and is likely to be even more so in the light of climate change and the rise in the waters it will bring. I therefore hope that you will indicate to me the exact legislation applicable to this situation, allowing in general terms to determine the ownership of the banks of a watercourse but also, more specifically, the ownership of the banks of the Marne in Condé-Sainte-Libiaire, while specifying who is responsible for the financing of the works intended to restore them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u160	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u161	Madam Member, I am aware of the difficulties you have experienced in your territory. I have seen them closely and I know how much we will need to provide very specific answers to these types of situations in the future. The article defining the maintenance and responsibilities of non-federal watercourses is article L. 215-14 of the Environmental Code, supplemented by regulatory articles R. 215-2 et seq. Article L. 215-14 states that maintenance is intended to ensure the free flow of water and its good condition under the Water Framework Directive. No obligation to maintain the banks is linked to the maintenance. In addition, article L. 2124-11 of the General Code on the Ownership of Public Persons refers the obligation to maintain the river public domain to its owner – the State or local authorities – or to VNF if it has been entrusted to it. The obligations are therefore identical and include not the proper keeping of the banks strictly speaking, but only the maintenance of the vegetation likely to create jams in the event of falling trees. The only additional obligation is, for the public navigable waterway domain entrusted to VNF or directly managed by the State, to ensure airworthiness by maintaining the navigation channel. Protection of the banks against the erosive action of the waters has been the responsibility of the owners of the riparian lands since a law of 1804. Thus, the protection of a road against bank erosion is the responsibility of the road owner. If the collapse follows a heavy flood, the restoration of the bank can be analyzed locally specifically as part of all post-crude work. Regarding your question about the Marne, entrusted to VNF, it is therefore necessary to examine more precisely the circumstances of this bank collapse. As for the information available on what is or does not belong to the river public domain, there is no comprehensive national mapping of canals and rivers in the river public domain. But a map of the VNF network is available on its website.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u162	Mrs Stéphanie Do has the floor to put her question, No. 702, on the timetable for the Grand Paris Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u163	My question is for the Minister responsible for transport. Like many of my colleagues, I am attentive to the implementation of the new schedule announced for the Grand Paris Express – the GPE. These lines are a real hope for the Seine-et-Marne. The seine-et-marnais territory is an integral part of the economic, social and cultural heart of the Île-de-France region. In the tenth electoral district of Seine-et-Marne, the GPE will complete the deficit transit network by line 15 Sud to Champs-sur-Marne and line 16 to Champs and Chelles, thus constituting for my electoral district a real opportunity in terms of jobs and attractiveness. A year ago, the Government announced a postponement of the commissioning of certain sections of the GPE for technical and budgetary reasons. Since then, it has invested significant financial resources to enable the project to be completed. But, on the one hand, I am concerned that the implementation of the section of line 16 between Clichy-Montfertil and Chelles-Gournay was to be postponed until 2030, particularly with a view to the Olympic Games, and the announcement of the postponement resulted in a freeze on some of the projects created by the GPE and a suspension of work in the city centres. However, I had the pleasure of learning at the last section conference that the call for tenders for civil engineering works for Line 16 would be launched two years in advance. In this context, to what extent can it be hoped that the section between Clichy-Montfertil and Chelles-Gournay of Line 16 could be achieved before 2030, in preparation for the Olympic Games of 2024? On the other hand, the calendar of the line 15 Sud at Champs-sur-Marne allowing to connect this commune to Villejuif, which was to be respected, has just been delayed by a year. What are the reasons for this new postponement? For these two lines, what compensations are provided if the deadlines cannot be shortened?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u164	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u165	Madam Member, you have drawn the attention of Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for transport, to the delivery times of line 16 of the Grand Paris Express. I confirm that this is a key project for the urban development and economic attractiveness of Île-de-France. In 2017, the progress of detailed studies and initial work revealed that the complexity of this exceptional project was probably underestimated. The technical risks and those arising from the saturation of the public works sector, in particular with regard to the availability of the necessary skills, had to be reassessed. The timetables envisaged so far have been very tense. It turned out that it was not technically feasible, because of the overloading of the companies to carry out the underground work, to meet the deadline of 2024: they already multiply by four their load plans compared to the last five years. The Government has therefore decided on a new timetable, announced on 22 February 2018: it foresees a staggering of the implementation of the various lines of the Grand Paris Express between 2024 and 2030. The project is thus confirmed in its entirety. But this led to the realization of the section of line 16 between Chelles and Noisy-le-Grand by 2030 at the latest. I understand the disappointment that this shift in schedule may have caused, but it was essential, when it came to launching this great project in concrete terms, to define credible and realistic conditions of implementation – if this had not been the case, it would have been properly blamed to the department. It does not seem realistic today to anticipate an acceleration of this section by 2024 in view of the numerous construction projects that the Société du Grand Paris must carry out and the associated technical risks, while our ministry is already trying to secure the keeping of an overall very ambitious timetable. With regard to the service of the Olympic sites, the Ile-de-France Mobilitys transport organiser will be able to organise with the help of the State the necessary means of reinforcement to ensure it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u166	Mrs Mireille Robert has the floor to put her question, No 711, on the Carcassonne-Paris air link.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u167	My question, which is addressed to the Minister responsible for transport, concerns the Carcassonne-paris air link. Air transport is of vital importance for Occitanie, the third largest French region in terms of flows linked to commercial flights with 12 million passengers per year. In addition to Toulouse-Blagnac and Montpellier-Méditerranée airports, there are eight smaller platforms participating in the economic life of the region, especially during the summer season. In my department of Aude, Carcassonne airport has proven its viability thanks to Ryanair's service and its huge tourist potential. New developments and major investments have been made: new parking space for four aircraft, hangar for runway equipment, redeveloped park, short-term parking, reconfiguration of places dedicated to car rental, new jetty and finish room finally worthy of this name. These investments allow us to anticipate 120 million euros of benefits for the Audois basin, located in a department heavily hit in 2018 and in great need of economic development. If tourism is currently the first outlet of the Carcassonne airport, which new companies are considering using, the real development tool would be a regular and sustainable link with the Capitale, which would allow companies and innovation in Audoise to find their outlets. Located halfway between Toulouse and Montpellier, Carcassonne is not served by the TGV, which puts the Audoise capital more than six hours by train from Paris, with insufficient frequency. The removal by air of this handicap would be essential for the economic development of the Aude. I therefore ask you, Madam Secretary of State, the question of the public service obligation for the air service between Carcassonne and Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u168	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u169	Madam Member, you drew the attention of Élisabeth Borne to the possibility of setting up public service obligations with a view to establishing a regional planning link between Carcassonne and Paris. Air service to the territories is a major issue in French transport policy, as you know, and that is why, following the National Air Transport Assises, Élisabeth Borne has embarked on a policy of relaunching air routes for the planning of the territory. Such links can be an alternative to respond quickly and at least in part to mobility needs which can only be met by building new road or rail infrastructures. The State has thus increased the budget allocated to these links by EUR 15 million from 2019 to participate again in the financing of existing links, while committing itself alongside local authorities to the establishment of new services. It was hoped that this policy would take into account the complementarity of platforms and different modes of transport, in a global approach to spatial planning. This is why, as early as 2018, the regions were involved in the reflections undertaken to identify the needs for air services. On this occasion, the Occitanie region expressed the desire of the department of Aude to establish a regional planning link between Carcassonne and Paris. The Minister understands the interest of this project, but it requires further studies to confirm the possibility of introducing public service obligations on this line, particularly with regard to the proximity of the Toulouse and Perpignan airports, as well as that of Castres-Mazamet from which a link to Paris-Orly is currently operated under public service delegation. New exchanges will take place on this subject, involving, inter alia, the departments of the Ministry and those of the Occitanie region. Élisabeth Borne hopes that they will soon succeed in finalising a specific project and forward it to the European Commission, if necessary, for inclusion in the public service obligations scheme. You see, Madam Member, that as a result of your frequent exchanges with the Ministry of Transport, we are moving forward on this issue, in close cooperation with the region, in order to decide whether – and, if so, how – we really need to establish a public service on this air link.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u170	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to put her question, No. 715, on the development of RN 12 in Orne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u171	My question, which is addressed to the Minister responsible for transport, concerns National Highway 12, a road linking Paris and Brittany, which President Le Fur is well aware of. Madam Secretary of State, I will not teach you anything by pointing out that the RN12 is not only a strategic but vital link for the Orne, from Perche to Bocage Sud to Pays d'Ouche – my colleague Jérôme Nury, Member of Parliament for Orne, can also testify to this. In 2013, a public-private scheme entitled Axe 12 launched at the instigation of local elected officials and consular chambers, but not supported by the State, proposed that a partnership contract with the State should carry out the two-track RN12 between Alençon and Nonancourt. I have already asked the Minister of Transport about this last year, and you, the Secretary of State, have read me her answer. The renovation of the RN12 was also to constitute one of the axes of the "moral pact", presented to the President of the Republic on 12 April 2018 when he came to Orne, whose aim is to make the Ornais territory a "rural start-up". There are several arguments in favour of the fact that the effective implementation of this project, which we have been defending for more than 30 years, is now rapid. First, it is not satisfactory for villages to be crossed by a national road where heavy goods traffic is significant. Achieving this project would help improve road safety and promote the well-being of the people. Moreover, while the movement of yellow vests echoes the malaise caused by the territorial divide, mobility appears more than ever to be a key issue for rural areas. I repeat, the development of this road network is vital for the Orne department. The mobility policy bill is currently under consideration in the National Assembly: let us seize this opportunity to meet the legitimate aspirations of the French in this area. [[MP Jérôme Nury applauds]] I would therefore like to know the intentions of the Government regarding the bypass of Saint-Rémy-sur-Avre, and above all the development of the RN12 on the part between Verneuil-sur-Avre and Alençon for a double-tracking of the entire route.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u172	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u173	Member of Parliament, Minister of Transport Élisabeth Borne is aware of the role that the RN12 plays in serving the Orne Department. In the long term, this road will be built twice two lanes between Dreux and Alençon. If the State decided not to proceed with the Axe 12 project, it was because the financial robustness of the proposed installation was not guaranteed. The traffic assumptions taken into account by the private group, and consequently the forecast toll revenues, were clearly too optimistic and inconsistent with the traffic recorded in the sector in previous years. The development of the section of the RN12 between Nonancourt and Alençon will therefore be carried out in a gradual manner, within the framework of the contracts of the State-Region Plan – CPER. In the Orne region, work to set up two tracks of the sections between, on the one hand, Mortagne-au-Perche and Tourouvre, and on the other hand, Saint-Maurice-lès-Charencey and Sainte-Anne, is thus included in the current CPER to the tune of 36 million euros, of which 27 million are contributed by the State. With regard to the bypass of Saint-Rémy-sur-Avre, this development is planned within the framework of the overall project to accelerate the double-tracking of RN154 and RN12. The July 2018 deadline you mentioned was not for the designation of a concessionaire, but for the publication of the declaration of public utility. However, it was adopted by a decree in the Council of State of 4 July 2018. The Government's commitment has therefore been fulfilled. This is an important step for this project. The record of the State's commitments on the operation will soon be published. Following the passage of the mobility guidance bill, which provides for the RN154 project, the next step will be to prepare and launch the concession call. This is the comprehensive and detailed milestone that the Government wanted to present.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u174	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u175	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for having indicated that a development project would be gradually implemented. For more than thirty years, the Ornais have been waiting for the development of the RN12. It is important that the State abide by its commitments and that its decisions on the project, as well as their implementation, be timely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u176	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor to put his question, No 707, on the French-German Higher Institute of Technology, Economics and Science.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u177	Madam Minister of Labour, the French-German Higher Institute of Technology, Economics and Science – ISFATES – is one of the flagships of French-German higher education and the forerunner of the Franco-German university. It is a component of the University of the Greater Region comprising four European countries, France, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. He also participated in the Franco-German Centre in Lorraine, the CFALor. I would add that ISFATES has just celebrated its forty-year anniversary, making it the oldest French-German higher education institution. The institute is based on cooperation between the Grande Ecole pour la technique et l'économie du Land de Sarre and the University of Lorraine. With more than 450 students in training, it is the largest Franco-German university cooperation. It also has more than 3000 former students, including the current leaders of Smart, Rehau, ZF and Villeroy &am p; Boch, among others. On the French side, this institution is currently faced with the discouragement of its director and deputy director's difficulties in managing the establishment due to a lack of human resources. The two directors struggled to carry out their teaching and research tasks because of the overwhelming administrative constraints specific to the Franco-German status. Unlike their German counterparts, they do not have a full-time manager who allows them to undo tasks for which their skills are the least needed, and to focus on their core business. Since the 2012-2013 academic year, the collapse of the German level of French students also creates additional work for the management of the institution. The Director wanted to withdraw, but he eventually remained in office in order to prevent the Institute from experiencing a governance vacancy or even disappearing. For the Moselle, ISFATES is a major centre of influence due to the establishment of extensive professional and student networks with the cities of Sarrebruck, Luxembourg and Metz. We would therefore like to warn you of the risk that this European model of openness to the world will disappear. At a time when interactions between European students are being encouraged until the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, what measures does the Government intend to take to relieve the ISFATES management team, which we urge you to meet, while strengthening the resources of the CFALor?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u178	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u179	Mr President, you have recalled that the French-German Higher Institute of Technology, Economics and Science was, historically, the first integrated Franco-German curriculum in our higher education system. This institute was set up in 1978 by intergovernmental decision and has been supported by the Franco-German University since 2005. He awarded joint diplomas in France and Germany. The Institute, which celebrated its fortieth anniversary last November, has established itself in both France and Germany as a field of excellence in the fields of management and engineering sciences. Today ISFATES represents the largest Franco-German cooperation in higher education. It has 450 students and almost 3000 graduates who form a dynamic network of former students promoting the recognition and professional integration of students on both banks of the Rhine. At the institutional level, it is an in-house institute of the University of Lorraine for the French part of the training. It is a component of this university, within the meaning of Article L.713-4 of the Education Code and Article 14 of the Decree of 25 September 2013 on in-house institutes and schools and groups of components of public scientific, cultural and professional institutions. As such, the financial and administrative resources of ISFATES are primarily related to the relations between this institute and the University of Lorraine, in accordance with its autonomy as defined in the Law on the Freedoms and Responsibilities of Universities. At present, the ISFATES has, as you have pointed out, its own administrative team consisting, in addition to the director and deputy director, of a secretary and two posts dedicated to the education services for the training given on the Metz site. It is not for the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation to replace the University in the management of its staff. However, the Minister will be very attentive to the situation of ISFATES. A strategic management dialogue began this year between the department and several universities. In the context of this discussion, the University of Lorraine will have to present its strategic guidelines, particularly in the field of cross-border cooperation, and to determine, with the support and support of the Ministry, the ways and means by which this flagship of Franco-German higher education will live and develop.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u180	Mr Christophe Arend has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u181	In this area where employment is at high risk, it could be envisaged that ISFATES would extend its training capacity to persons aged between 30 and 40 who have mastered the German language. I would also like to return to the collapse of knowledge of this language since 2012-2013. The percentage of French students with excellent German language practice, which was then 90%, has now fallen to 30%. This fact leads us to wonder what future we wish to offer to Franco-German cooperation as we soon ratify in this Chamber the Treaty of Aachen, signed on 22 January.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u182	The next speaker is Mrs Florence Provendier, to put his question, No. 710, concerning the future of the regional office of France 3 Paris Île-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u183	Madam Minister of Labour, the Minister of Culture is aware that the management of France Télévisions has taken the decision to transfer the antenna of France 3 Paris-Île-de-France, located in my constituency, in Vanves, to the premises of the headquarters of France Télévisions in Paris. This transfer, which may seem without great consequence, could jeopardize the independence or even the existence of the editorial staff. Indeed, Île-de-France is the largest metropolitan region, and the regional information that concerns it is very often based on a national news report known as "Parisi". The danger of confusion between regional and national news could eventually deprive the Francilians of separate local information. In our cities and neighbourhoods, journalists build social ties, report on local situations and highlight specific initiatives. They thus respond to a need for proximity. As part of the future reform of the public audiovisual sector, the Minister of Culture is committed to making regional news a vehicle for renewal. The previous Minister of Culture had also announced that an ambitious cooperation between France 3 and France Bleu would be launched, leading to the creation of a regional daily media that would be the voice of the territories. If this project is still relevant, we can only welcome it, hoping that the Île-de-France region will benefit from it. At the dawn of a crucial reform for public audiovisual, can you confirm that the measures promised by the Minister of Culture will enter into force so that the Francilians continue to benefit from quality local information thanks to the regional office of France Télévisions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u184	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u185	France Télévisions plans to move, at the end of October of this year, the teams of the antenna France 3 Paris-Île-de-France de Vanves to the neighbouring site of the house France Télévisions, in the fifteenth arrondissement of Paris. The first objective of this decision was to ensure the safety of France 3 Paris-Île-de-France teams after the two fires suffered in recent years, which had weakened operating conditions. It also contributes to the consolidation of France Télévisions' teams on a limited number of real estate rights, allowed in particular by the lease, in 2017, of new surfaces in the building located in Issy-les-Moulineaux. The Minister of Culture Franck Riester and I would like to reassure you: the relocation of the teams of the France 3 Paris-Île-de-France antenna does not in any way call into question the existence of this antenna. In general, the company committed itself, in the framework agreement on the deployment of its company project signed with the social partners a few days ago, on 11 May 2019, to maintaining the network of the territory. France 3 intends to ensure the development of regional information by relying on the local offices of France 3, which will be preserved, and by involving all the teams in the production of content. The France 3 Paris-Île-de-France antenna will retain both its territorial independence and its autonomy of management, and will have its own television set, which will be the same copy of the one it currently enjoys in Vanves. I think I've responded to your concerns about regional information. There is no doubt that the relocation of its teams less than a quarter of an hour by public transport from the Vanves site will have no impact on the resolutely francilian processing of the information of France 3 Paris-Île-de-France. This branch will continue to draw on the expertise of its four information offices located in Bobigny, Melun, Versailles and Cergy. The Government has also made proximity one of the strategic axes of the transformation of the public audiovisual sector. The achievement of this objective depends in particular on the tripling of France Télévisions' regional offer by 2022, as well as on the establishment of a strengthened partnership with the France Bleu network that you mentioned. This partnership has been experienced since the beginning of this year in Nice and Toulouse during common mornings between France Bleu and France 3. We welcome the fact that, in the light of their very positive assessment, France Télévisions and Radio France announced on 10 May the gradual spread, by 2022, of the mornings common to all the local networks of the two companies. We confirm that this generalization will include their implantations in Île-de-France, and thus France 3 Paris-Île-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u186	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to raise her question, No. 696, on social rights, health and the conditions under which unemployed people are to be monitored.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u187	Minister, one of the central dimensions of our social law is access to health for workers. This is why an annual visit to occupational medicine is mandatory. However, the sustainability of this right for our fellow citizens who lose their jobs is not yet guaranteed. This is an extremely worrying situation, as it is disconnected from the reality experienced by the unemployed. Indeed, a study by the National Institute of Health and Medical Research carried out in 2015 shows that 10,000 to 15,000 deaths per year are linked to unemployment. The alarm must be launched, and the Government must try to find quick and immediate solutions to accompany the unemployed at this difficult time. Psychological trauma associated with job loss is indeed one of the major factors of depression and suicide. Thus, the risk of suicide for unemployed people is twice as high as for the rest of the population. Addictive behaviour is increasing: one in two former smokers again smokes once their job is lost, and the life expectancy of unemployed people is shorter than that of the rest of the French. The general policy of the Government to combat unemployment – or rather, I should say, in the fight against the unemployed – is disastrous, as it exacerbates these risk factors. The increasing difficulty faced by the unemployed in finding a job corresponding to their qualifications increases the health risks. The increasingly tighter and oppressive control logics go in the same direction: no prevention is organised in terms of health, but stress situations are mounted from scratch by governments who have forgotten to see people behind the figures in their Excel tables. Upon hiring, a medical examination is required. This should also be done at the beginning of the unemployment period, so that everyone is informed of the risks involved. A second visit should be scheduled at the end of the first year of unemployment: Pôle Emploi should call the unemployed who are registered there, and the family allowance fund should call those who are not. These visits must take place in occupational medicine. Finally, the question of continuity of social rights also arises for access to mutuals, which is maintained for an arbitrary period of nine months, whereas it would be more fair for such access to be guaranteed until the resumption of employment. This access should be funded by the employer: the employer must assume financial responsibility for the risks created by its decision to dismiss workers' health. I would therefore like to know the position of the Ministry on these two specific points: compulsory medical visits for the unemployed and continuity of access to mutuals. These two demands are defended at national level by the Association for Employment, Information and Solidarity of the Unemployed and Precarious Workers and by the National Movement of the Unemployed and Precarious. They rely on the work of Professor Michel Debout.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u188	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u189	Madam Member, we agree at least on one point, one, which is very important: access to health rights is a fundamental issue for employees, but also for job seekers. Of course, all job seekers are automatically affiliated with health insurance. As far as supplementary insurance is concerned, the portability of rights already exists: its duration is not nine months, as you have stated, but twelve months. It has been the subject of contracts between private insurance companies and companies. The 12-month extension period during the unemployment period seems reasonable. At one point, the link with the company no longer makes sense, and other systems must take over, including solidarity systems. What is important is that there is no discontinuity. On the other hand, it is essential to guarantee access to rights, including supplementary universal health insurance for low-income job-seekers. Public employment officers are made aware of this. In fact, I refute your comments, according to which these agents would be riveted on their Excel board and would no longer see the people they have in front of them. I can assure you that, in order to return all the time to Pôle Emploi agencies, they have only one goal: that job seekers can return to work. They have a human relationship with them and do not reduce them to figures in an Excel table. Systematic medical visits would not make sense in a context where the vast majority of people normally consult their doctor and where their costs are already covered. However, there is a need to pay close attention to situations of fragility. Persons with employment problems, but sometimes also housing and health problems, receive comprehensive support. This is also the case for some young people monitored by local missions, for whom the use of doctors is sometimes incomplete. Finally, this is the case for persons with disabilities accompanied by Capemploi. The enhanced cooperation between Capemploi and Pôleemploi will ensure that all persons with disabilities benefit from this monitoring. In all these cases, we do tailor-made. Experience has shown that this approach is more effective and responsive to the needs and wishes of the individuals concerned. However, discussions on these issues will take place shortly with the social partners in the framework of the work of the Working Conditions Guidance Board, on the basis of the report by Mrs Charlotte Lecocq. We will assess, based on the findings of this work, the necessary adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u190	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u191	Madam Minister, I have not called into question the commitment of the employment officers, but it seems unacceptable to me that, as your Government did in January, certain rights to the unemployed should be withdrawn, that a circular should be published to increase radiation after a certain period of time, and that at the same time 2600 jobs should be abolished at Pôle Emploi – while increasing the number of controllers...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u192	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u193	I assure you, minister, that today we are abolishing jobs at the employment centre. It is you who question the sense of work of the employment officers and how they can do it with a view to actually accompanying people to employment. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u194	You had ten more seconds, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u195	Mr Patrice Verchère, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No 717 on the recognition of exposure to asbestos by Givors glassmakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u196	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the health situation of the former workers of the Givors glass factory. The Givors former glass company was founded in 2003 when the company closed down. Today it brings together retired or active workers, but unfortunately also widows and children of workers who have died of cancer. After the closure of the plant, the glassmakers undertook a long institutional and judicial path to obtain the classification of the plant on the list of friendly industrial sites. Indeed, a survey carried out by the association in the spring of 2009 among 353 of them, which was transmitted to the State authorities, identified seventy-one pathologies following exposure to asbestos. Seven cancers have been recognized by social security as occupational diseases, and two others have been recognized by the Social Security Court because of poly-exposure to asbestos, hydrocarbons and solvents. The company was also convicted of inexcusable misconduct. Building on these institutional or judicial recognitions, the association of former glassmakers decided to request the State on 1 July 2013 to include glassware on the list of friendly sites. I would like to recall that, in a report dated 1 August 2013, the Labour Inspectorate stated that "there is no doubt about the exposure of employees to the risk of asbestos. In December 2013, a delegation was even received at the Ministry of Labour, which orally confirmed the principle of listing the site. However, by letter dated October 17, 2014, the then Minister of Labour finally rejected the application as unfounded. Consequently, as the association did not win the case, it brought an action before the Administrative Court. His application was rejected by the latter, and his members brought the case before the Lyon Administrative Court of Appeal, which, by a decision of 11 October 2018, unfortunately again rejected the application. However, the inclusion of Givors' glassware on the list of friendly sites would allow former employees to obtain post-professional medical follow-up, as well as recognition as an occupational disease. Madam Minister, in order to avoid lengthy procedures, and in addition largely anxiogenic for these former glassmakers, and while the courts have included on this list four glasswares similar to that of Givors, I solemnly ask you to list Givors' glassware on the list of friendly industrial sites. I also ask you that the services of the Ministry of Health ensure a strengthened medical follow-up of these workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u197	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u198	I thank you, Mr President, for drawing my attention to the situation of the former workers of the Givors glass factory. As you know, for an establishment to be included in the lists of establishments eligible for the early cessation of activity of asbestos workers, or CAATA, it is necessary that the ancillary activity of asbestos heat-repellent represents a significant part of its activity. At the time, the elements of the file did not determine that a significant proportion of employees were engaged in asbestos-causing operations, nor did they prove the frequency of such activities. The administration had therefore issued a decision refusing registration of the VMC establishment in Givors for the period 1966 to 2003, the date of its closure. This decision, you recalled, has been confirmed on two occasions: first by the administrative court of Lyon, in a judgment of 22 November 2016, and then by the administrative court of appeal of Lyon, in a judgment of 8 October 2018. However, the association provided itself with cassation. The absence of registration of Givors' glassware on the CAATA lists does not prevent its former employees from receiving post-professional medical follow-up if they so request. The latter is granted by the primary health insurance fund upon production by the person concerned of an exposure certificate completed by the employer and by the occupational doctor. In the event that the insured person is unable to provide such a certificate, in particular because the undertaking has ceased its activity – this is the case for the Givors glass factory – the health insurance department is responsible for checking the effectiveness of the exposure before offering the person concerned the appropriate medical follow-up. I therefore invite those interested to contact their caisses with a view to implementing this follow-up. In addition, and this is an important point, former employees can personally apply for recognition of the professional character of their illness. For this purpose, victims shall have a period of two years from the date of the medical certificate which informed them of the possible link between their illness and their professional activity or from the date of cessation of their activity, whichever is later. This application is then included, as you know, in the tables on occupational diseases. That being said, I am personally concerned about our system of taking into account chemical and occupational risks: in my view, we need to improve it. I also asked Professor Paul Frimat for a report on this subject last year, who gave it to us. This is a topic that the Minister of Solidarity and Health will have the opportunity to take up more broadly, addressing all of these risks when we look at occupational health reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u199	Mr Patrice Verchère has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u200	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In view of what you have said, particularly at the end of it, I understand that you are aware of the difficulty of this dossier. Almost 25% of the workers who worked in this factory suffer from unfortunately very heavy pathologies, since in some cases they are cancers. 25% is not nothing. I ask that this list be included for the simple reason that, if there are alternative procedures to it, they are very anxious for people who are already sick or for women or children, who have lost or unfortunately are about to lose a husband or father. The idea was to say: the four sites that benefited from such registration were almost identical – certainly not 100% – to that of Givors, and the registration of Givors would exempt these workers from carrying out all these administrative procedures in the field of labour law or social security. That was my initiative, which was joined by a communist senator from the Loire – you see that my approach is not political – who asked the Government the same question a few days ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u201	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-21-O1242.u202	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and vote by public vote on the new reading of the draft law establishing a National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories; Further discussion of the Public Service Transformation Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
