ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u2	We are dealing with the review of credits for sustainable ecology, development and mobility, and the appropriations for the annex budget "Air control and operation", as well as for the trust accounts "Financing of aid to communities for rural electrification", "Energy transition" and "National passenger transport services" (No. 2301, Annexes 16 to 19; No 2298, volumes V and VI; No 2303, Volume V; No 2292, Volumes II to VIII). This discussion was organized into two distinct sequences. We are going to start the budget discussion on energy. Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u3	As everyone knows, the environmental context in which we deal with the budgets of these missions is increasingly alarming. He doesn't have to go far to convince himself. The synthesis report on the environment in France, published in October 2019 by your ministry, is enlightening: massive extirpation of species, poor condition of 80% of natural habitats, rapid continuation of the artificialisation of soils; no significant progress in groundwater quality; carbon footprint per capita in France three to four times higher than the target of 1.6 to 2.8 tonnes of C0 per person per year. How does your budget respond to it? On the one hand, the unions in your ministry, which we have heard, are so alarmed that they have created a defence committee of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, some of which fear, in the long run, the pure and simple disappearance. On the other hand, on the occasion of questions to the Government, Mrs. Élisabeth Borne answers me by boasting an increase of 800 million euros in your budget. Unfortunately, the facts and figures do not confirm your version. The main vectors for the increase of the Mission's appropriations in the PLF 2020 are the increase in the forecast of assigned taxes – an additional €730 million, of which €504 million for the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, AFITF – and two changes in scope: you are creating a new programme "Charge of the debt of SNCF Réseau taken over by the State", with estimated appropriations of €409 million – it goes without saying that this expenditure, resulting from a law of dismantling the public service, has nothing to do in the mission "Ecology" and everything to do in the mission "Financial commitments of the State"; you are deleting the "Aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles" trust account, with the corresponding €395 million in budget appropriations included in the 174 "Energy, climate and after-mines" programme under the car bonus, which inflates the appropriations of the mission. In short, the increases you show are windy, they camouflage a real drop. The budget appropriations for the mission "Ecology" excluding the special allocation account "Pension" are actually increasing slightly, from €11.52 billion in the LFI for 2019 to €11.64 billion in the PLF for 2020. This is 1%, less than inflation. I will defend amendments to clarify the budget model of the mission and to ensure a minimum of sincerity in the presentation of appropriations. I read here and there that the effectiveness of a department would not be related to its budgets and staffing. Everything shows the opposite: you don't do more with less. Clear cuts in the workforce continue. Like the four representative unions of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I call at least for a moratorium on staff reductions, on the abolition or transfer of missions, and on restructuring of establishments and services. We're far from it. For 2020, the employment authorization limit of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, as set out in section 42 of this Finance Bill, increases from 39373 to 37382 full-time equivalents worked – ETPT – a 5.3% decrease in the number of employees, in addition to the bleed of the last 10 years. For operators, the decrease is 286 ETPT compared to the 2019 ceiling; It affects very hard establishments such as Météo France – which loses 95 ETPT – or the Centre d'études et d'expertise sur les risques, l'environnement, la mobility et l'aménagement, CEREMA – which loses 101 of them – while, for example, the Société du Grand Paris, whose ceiling for job authorisations had already increased from 200 to 430 ETPT from 2018 to 2019, has increased its staff to 585 ETPT in 2020. With regard to the four programs that I monitor in particular, the appropriations, at constant scope, are being reduced: decrease of 0.63% for Program 159, "Expertise, Geographic and Meteorological Information", decrease of 0.93% for Program 181, "Risk Prevention", decrease of 2.83% for Program 217, "Ecological Policy Conduct and Management", in which the Department's payroll is significantly reduced. As for the 113 "Landscapes, water and biodiversity" programme, the increase of 26% in payment appropriations is the result of a perimeter measure: the introduction of a subsidy for public service charges of €41.2 million for the benefit of the French Office for Biodiversity, OFB, a new establishment resulting from the merger of the Agence française pour la biodiversité, AFB, and the Office national de la chassure et de la faune sauvage, ONCFS. I will also note the decline in public service subsidies for the National Institute for Geographic and Forestry Information, IGN, and CEREMA. The slight increase in Météo France is due to exceptional financing for the renewal of the supercomputer. With regard to the National Institute for the Industrial Environment and Risks, INERIS, the cumulative downsizing between 2016 and 2024 will represent 20% of the staff, although the central role of this institution in research on industrial risks and their prevention and in the development of regulations, as well as its action in support of emergency services in industrial accidents – the drama of Lubrizol has shown. The same applies to inspectors of listed sites. I have already had the opportunity to say this: the Director of Risk Prevention himself acknowledges that the number of controls has been divided by two in fifteen years, that the average ratio is one inspector for 420 sites and that 200 inspector positions are missing to ensure the minimum necessary. How can we claim that this has no effect on the control and monitoring of hazardous sites? This case reflects the entire budget of your department and the programs that I follow up on; That is why I will call for a vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u4	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u5	The finance bill wants to "respond to the environmental emergency." The ambition is noble but the result is disappointing. In a way, the mountain gives birth to a mouse – a green mouse, perhaps, but a mouse anyway! This ecological mouse does not hurt everything: in your budget, there are some positive points that I would like to highlight. So this year we received the yellow budget 10 days, not 48 minutes before the debate, as we did last year. Similarly, the energy check is a little known, but useful and effective device. The creation of a revitalization fund in the territories concerned by the forthcoming closure of coal-fired power plants is a good thing. Although work remains, the first developments in the budget model are in the right direction. Nevertheless, the overall assessment is disappointing and three major criticisms can be made of the appropriations presented: in my view, the budget discussed today lacks simplicity, coherence and relevance. First criticism, the lack of simplicity is illustrated up to the caricature by the reform of the tax credit for the energy transition, ISCED. According to the French Federation of Buildings, FFB, there are 192 different cases in this reform; Yes, 192! It's no longer a tax credit, it's Rubik's cube that combines income and energy performance criteria; interested to find the right color on the right side. Who can believe that such a complex device will find its audience? This is a hypocritical way of preventing some potential beneficiaries from gaining access to their rights. In my opinion, the account will not be there even though the need for energy renovation is high. I give you an appointment in a year to take stock of the reform of the ISCED, but I am very afraid that the result will be far from our expectations. The second criticism is that the lack of consistency is reflected in the accompaniment to the greening of the fleet. The budgetary trajectory of the two schemes supporting this measure is surprisingly contradictory: on the one hand, the Government increases the credits for the ecological bonus by half to 395 million euros, but on the other hand, it reduces the appropriations supporting the break-up premium by one third to 405 million euros. To finance the ecological bonus with savings on the breakaway premium, you had to think about it; We must salute Bercy's ingenuity! This lack of coherence is also found within the mechanisms themselves. Thus, the breakage premium applies only if the value of the vehicle purchased does not exceed 60000 euros; It's a lot, it's even too much in my opinion, but at least there's a ceiling. On the other hand, for the green bonus, there is no bonus: the bonus is paid regardless of the value of the acquired vehicle. The purchaser of a €100,000 Tesla will thus benefit from an eco-friendly bonus of €6000. I do not find that acceptable. By doing so, the State creates a pure boon effect. Anyone who can afford a car at 100,000 euros should not be helped with our taxes. The third and final criticism is that the budget presented is not relevant because it refuses to consider certain savings or even to mention them. Of course, I am thinking of wind turbines, especially land wind turbines, but also of the very high cost of contracts for the purchase of photovoltaic electricity prior to the 2010 moratorium. Oh, it's a straw – a small question of 100 billion euros. But at least we could legally assess the possibilities of renegotiating these contracts. We all know that our public finances are constrained; This must force us to make choices and better target the sectors supported. I regret that this is not the case, and I regret that the Committee on Finance adopted the appropriations for the mission without making any major changes. [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] But it is not enough to criticize, we must also propose. That is why I have tabled several amendments on the case premium, the ecological bonus, wind energy and photovoltaics. So I'll give you an appointment in a few moments to continue our discussions on the green mouse that pulls the devil by the tail and runs in a grass resembling synthetic grass.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u6	Mr Jean François Mbaye, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u7	"The forests precede the peoples, the deserts follow them." Behind this common place wrongly attributed to Chateaubriand is a reality that I want to tell you about at the opening of the review of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" of the Finance Bill for 2020. In the context of this second report for an opinion on environmental diplomacy, I chose to devote my work to the preservation and restoration of global forests. No doubt you remember the recent and terrible images of a burning Amazonia and thousands of hectares of primary forest reduced to ash. Under the volutes of black smoke, the only grudge allowed this mutic victim, it is a universal heritage that was slain by fire. For yes, ladies and gentlemen, every offence against our forests is an affront to humanity as a whole. The tropical forests are home to almost half of the flora and fauna known to date in the world. Our forests play a key role in ensuring soil fertility, water quality and climate regulation. In places of life, they provide plenty of animal and plant raw materials, and are home to many indigenous populations. At this moment, allow me to pay tribute to Paulo Paulino, a forest defender, brutally murdered last Friday in Brazil by timber traffickers. Despite its priceless virtues, the human species is ingenious in destroying the world's forest spaces. If nothing is done, they will be halved over the next two centuries. The causes of this destruction are land-use change for agriculture or urbanization: in less than two decades, more than a quarter of global deforestation has become permanent as a result of such development. Among the most affected territories are South America, a soybean producer, and South-East Asia, and its oil palm plantations. The forest is a universal heritage, and it must also be the anathema that I am launching from this rostrum: we French, Europeans, by consuming these products, are responsible for more than one third of the deforestation linked to international trade in agricultural products. My first recommendation therefore concerns the need to raise public awareness of the impact of our consumption patterns on the state of the world's forests. Beyond that, it is up to us to rethink international forest governance, which is currently free from any unified and binding legal framework. Both the North-South divides and the proliferation of uncoordinated forest-related initiatives are contributing to dilute overall mobilization for forests, thereby weakening the visibility of this problem on the international scene. Therefore, in view of the seriousness and urgency of the situation, I believe that the adoption of a United Nations framework convention should be a minimum objective. In this context, France must play a decisive role and take full advantage of the opportunities that will arise in the coming months in order to establish itself as a leader in this field. For this, it has the legitimacy it derives from its important forest cover, as well as a globally recognized expertise through the actions of the international branch of the Office national des forêts – NFB – and the Agence française de développement – AFD. France is the first country to have developed and adopted an ambitious strategy to combat imported deforestation. The initiatives taken at the last G7 summit or on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly meeting last September show that our diplomacy is already in order of battle. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Nevertheless, by virtue of the ambitions that must be ours, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the recomposition of the staff of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, which is necessary to support our international action, cannot justify any weakening of this mobilization. Thus, and in order to enable our diplomacy to make a decisive breakthrough in the preservation and restoration of the world's forests, I invite you to vote for the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u8	I call Mrs Bessot Ballot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u9	As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have examined with particular attention the appropriations of the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility" devoted to the social and solidarity economy – ESS. The ESS, representing 10% of gross domestic product and 14% of employment, is a strategic sector that would be wrong to neglect. In addition, the ESS embodies a real ambition for tomorrow's business models. The company is changing the world and ESS must be the model to be integrated. This acronym alone expresses the whole philosophy of the sector: to make the link between the economy on the one hand and the social on the other, to make the best practices converge and to be at the service of solidarity. It is therefore essential that we work together to exceed the 10% of GDP mark and ensure that the ESS irrigates our entire economy. The State's support for this sector is crucial to the emergence of all the initiatives that will need to be autonomous tomorrow. Because it is essentially cross-cutting, the ESS is supported by several budgetary missions. My opinion relates specifically to the appropriations entered in programme 159. The PLF for 2020 is sending a positive signal: with EUR 19.89 million, appropriations are increasing and the momentum for ESS and social innovation is continuing. These appropriations make it possible, on the one hand, to finance investment actions for the development of the ESS. The sector can count on the leverage effect of public investment on private investment. At the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government set the ambitious goal of raising funding for social innovation to EUR 1 billion by 2022. This objective is well under way, since 375 million euros have already been raised thanks to the French Impact initiative. The appropriations under programme 159 also finance the local accompanying arrangements – DLA – which support the employment structures of the ESS. The effectiveness of DLAs is unanimous and I therefore welcome the increase in funding this year. But the actors point out that an additional EUR 1 million would now be needed to make the scheme fully effective. It is important to listen to these developments and I have therefore tabled a number of amendments to this effect. In the second part of my opinion, I wanted to deepen the question of the development of ESS in the territories, and in particular in rural areas. The ESS is historically deeply rooted in the rural world, mainly through the community movement. Now is the time for innovation: it is time to promote ESS as a real economy of the future that brings new solutions to meet the major challenges of the territories. Trades that are part of the short circuit promotion process, solidary grocery stores, and refreshments are all initiatives that deserve to be encouraged and supported. Among the levers identified to promote the development of the ESS in rural areas, I have been interested in the issue of complementary local currencies. These currencies, which are indeed complementary – rather than alternative – to the euro, can generate significant economic, social and environmental benefits. In France, they developed significantly in the early 2010s and were recognised as a payment document with the law of 31 July 2014 on the social and solidarity economy. Today, France has nearly eighty local currencies in circulation, with a total money supply of more than EUR 2 million. These currencies can boost the local economy and encourage short circuits. They may constitute a new deposit to finance projects in support of the ESS. Some field experiments show the full potential of these complementary means of exchange, such as the Basque Country's local currency eusko and Europe's first complementary local currency, the most successful example today. There are several ways to encourage local currencies that swarm around our constituencies. First, we need to refine our knowledge of the phenomenon: it seems necessary to set up an observatory to improve the tools for measuring the socio-economic impact of these currencies. The right levers must then be activated to initiate a change of scale: for them to have a positive impact on a territory, they must reach a sufficiently large size. They must also allow B to B exchange channels – from business to business. For this to happen, the digital switchover is a development to be encouraged. Under these conditions, local currencies can be a real tool for the future and for the ESS, and for our territories. I will come back to conclude with the more global challenges of the ESS: this sector, and its values, must be a red line of public action for the years to come because it represents a real response to the major challenges and challenges of our society in terms of economic development, entrepreneurship, social inclusion and acceleration towards the ecological transition. It is also a strong expectation of our citizens and stakeholders in the sector; The entrepreneurial world becomes a little more aware of this every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u10	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u11	The review of energy policy credits takes place in a particular context: general awareness of climate change and the need for action; the unprecedented mobilization of citizens – especially young people – in favour of climate change; High-level meetings within the United Nations... Yet, despite this context, which could have been conducive, the present budget is very disappointing. My first question concerns the very large and unprecedented reduction in the number of staff of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. I also regret certain developments in programme 174: the transformation of ISCED into a bonus is not up to the stakes. This premium is expected to further reduce the remaining burden of modest and very modest households. As for the more affluent households, the changes voted in public sittings are welcome, but the amounts of aid foreseen are very insufficient. I am convinced, however, that it is possible to reconcile the two objectives of improving purchasing power and combating climate change – and that this is the key to success. The appropriations for the conversion premium scheme are down 32% compared to 2019, while transport decarbonisation must be a priority. Energy cheque credits are down 3%. Recipients' accompaniment is not up to date: 20% of them did not use their energy check. Revenue earmarked for the energy transition trust account is declining due to the end of the repayment of the accumulated State debt for the former public utility contribution – CSPE. I regret that the revenues so far allocated to this account and saved – up to EUR 1 billion this year – have not been redeployed to finance the energy transition. As for the appropriations from the trust account "Financing aid to communities for rural electrification" – FACE – they are chronically under-consumed because the actions they can finance are not adapted to the new challenges of the energy transition. There is an urgent need for the reform of the FACE, which we voted for in the review of the energy and climate bill, to come into force, involving the overseas territories where there are many difficulties. What about the Secretary of State to the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition? Beyond the appropriations, a large number of expenditure foreseen by this PLF is unfavourable to the energy transition: almost 25 billion euros, according to the General Finance Inspectorate; There is an urgent need to establish a progressive timetable for the abolition of such expenditure. Furthermore, in the context of the debate on the PLF for 2021, we will need to have a joint assessment of the environmental and social consequences of expenditure in order to embark on a fair and inclusive ecological transition. Finally, a real reflection on ecological taxation is essential. At the very least, it would be appropriate to further allocate the revenues from the auctioning of carbon allowances to energy renewal. These revenues are exploding: €840 million are expected for 2020. Budgetary resources are therefore available to put in place truly ambitious measures. Given the scale of the task and the urgency of the decisions to be taken, we cannot simply adjust certain expenses without changing our way of doing things. We call for a more comprehensive vision, ladies and gentlemen; Let us no longer close our eyes to certain destructive policies of the environment by adjusting on the margins certain steps to give us, at best, good conscience. For all these reasons, I gave an opinion in committee against the adoption of the energy appropriations. I chose to focus the thematic part of my opinion on energy renewal. While the Energy Transition Act targeted the renovation of 500,000 homes per year, only 350,000 were renovated in 2018. I would like to point out that the number of thermal colanders is estimated at about 7 million and that of these, 3.8 million are occupied by modest households: there is an urgent need to act more quickly and more effectively. There is an abundance of energy objectives: they need to be prioritized and shared. The State must set an example. I have therefore tabled an amendment to create a programme specifically funding actions to reduce the energy consumption of state buildings. Financial restraint is important. To lift it, more innovative arrangements would have to be created: the Socialist and related group has thus tabled a bill that provides for a plan of 300 billion euros over 30 years to renovate housing. Beyond the issue of financing, there is a need to focus on supporting households and communities. First of all, it involves the creation of a real public service for renovation. The funding recently provided for this public service is not at all satisfactory. It was decided that it would be based for half on community funding and half on private funding, thanks to an energy saving certificate program – it is at least surprising for a so-called public service. So, Madam Secretary of State, how do you intend to help local and regional authorities set up this service so as not to create territorial disparities? Co-ownership support is also very important, as is community support. More information is needed on the arrangements of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, in particular on the loan GPI-AmbRE. Here are some lines of work that I hope we will soon have an opportunity to discuss in order to move more effectively towards the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u12	Mrs Danielle Brulebois, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u13	The 181 programme is the key programme for the prevention of risks, be they industrial, nuclear, natural, technological or mining, the safety of hydraulic works, the management of polluted soils, but also in support of the circular economy and the development of renewable energies. For 2020, it has €826.5 million in commitment authorisations and €826.6 million in payment appropriations, a slight decrease compared to 2019. It is due to the exceptional measure taken last year concerning the building Le Signal, in Soulac-sur-Mer. Since 2018, the programme has also included funding for EUR 594 million from the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME. The analysis of programme 181 shows a sanctification of appropriations, which is to be welcomed in the context of a constraint on public finances. The workforce is also generally preserved. They are being strengthened in the field of nuclear safety, with three additional jobs for the ASN – the Nuclear Safety Authority – which relies on the expertise of the IRSN – the Institute of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety – whose responsiveness is to be stressed – I am thinking of the latest incidents and shortcomings of non-compliance. These two bodies are facing major challenges in the coming years: the ageing of the park and large carenage, radioactive waste, new installations, such as ITER, the international experimental thermonuclear reactor, or the European pressurized reactor – EPR – in Flamanville. It is also important to stress the stability of the funds allocated for the safety of hydraulic dams. The Special Envoy's investigation of the Vouglans Dam had raised some fears. I wanted to note on the spot that false or partial claims could be denied. The safety of Class A large dams is ensured by an extremely rigorous continuous monitoring involving experts from the Regional Environmental, Planning and Housing Directorate – DREAL – and the operator. Emerging risks are also subject to increased vigilance. In this regard, the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES – plays an essential role. In addition to its research and expertise on issues of concern, ANSES is responsible for authorising the placing on the market of plant protection products and biocides. The continued increase in the number of files filed may raise concerns about the Agency's future saturation. Technological and industrial risks are still present, as we have just been reminded of the serious fire at the Lubrizol plant, which had been the subject of thirty-nine inspections since 2013. The so-called "high threshold" Seveso sites are subject to constant and enhanced monitoring, as I was able to see when visiting the Solvay-Inovyn chemical platform in Tavaux, Jura. The Secretary of State has already indicated that there have been no reductions in staff or resources for this action. However, if the Government's objective is to achieve a 50 per cent increase in the number of annual inspections by 2022, there will be a need for a sufficient number of monitors and adequate resources. It is in this spirit that I have proposed an amendment, adopted by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, to strengthen the resources of this action to the tune of EUR 2 million. While ADEME funding falls slightly in 2020, this agency benefits from increasing own resources, and from the disengagement of certain projects that give it financial margins. The funds for the heat fund are increasing from €350 million in 2019 to €381 million for 2020. We also know that the Agency's missions will increase. I insist on the waste fund which will become "fund for the circular economy". Its extremely varied actions are useful to society, but they should become more widespread. On the ground, we find that the waste disposal network is often saturated, which leads to a still too high rate of burial, even in departments such as Jura, where collection and sorting are already very extensive. For example, we need to know that only one third of the waste from our overconsumption of textiles is now collected. The other two-thirds end up buried or incinerated. The ambition set out in the draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy is therefore immense: many missions will be the responsibility of ADEME, as will the establishment of some 20 new sectors with extended producer responsibility – REP. For all these reasons, the Committee on Sustainable Development has adopted an amendment to strengthen the funds for the circular economy by EUR 10 million. I also wanted to table an amendment allowing a levy on producers to finance jobs for the REP activities of ADEME. However, it was declared inadmissible under article 40 of the Constitution. Madam Secretary of State, it would be desirable for us to consider this possibility in order to give ourselves the means of our ambitions within the framework of the Circular Economy Act. I recall that since 2017, risk prevention and environmental transition are Government priorities, and that our majority has put an end to the continued decline in programme 181 funding. However, in a world in profound change, in order to take control of the future, we must not lower our guard. I would like to underline the commitment and the rigorous work of the State services and the operators attached to them, as well as the sense of responsibility of the companies I have heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u14	Mrs. Brulebois, we must conclude!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u15	Unfortunately, the occurrence of an accident or disaster cannot be ruled out. Risk is intimately linked to life. This is to be recalled very regularly. We need to develop culture...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u16	Your time has expired!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u17	After these remarks, I invite you to vote for the appropriations for programme 181.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u18	Mr David Lorion, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u19	In the form of opening remarks, I would like to stress the moment in which we find ourselves. We are all aware of the ecological emergency. It goes beyond expert debates as it mobilizes young people like all of us. As we analyze the finance bill for 2020, we must succeed in transforming this awareness into budget lines that reflect the priority given to ecology. We have to ask ourselves the following question: does the 217 programme, 'Direction and management of policies on ecology, development and sustainable mobility', of which I am the draftsman, reflect this urgency? For my part, I don't believe it, and I'll explain why. It is a somewhat specific programme that finances support activities, such as computer science, legal and real estate, but also, and above all, human resources for the implementation of the public policies of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and that of territorial cohesion and relations with local and regional authorities. The programme therefore does not focus on a particular public policy: it supports public policies and, above all, it enables women and men to be paid for their implementation. In the context of my report for opinion, I wanted, beyond the very interesting Parisian hearings, to go to our regions, particularly in the Cantal, to listen to the personnel directly engaged in the service of environmental protection in the DREAL, in the regional health agencies or in the departments. I have heard committed public servants who are passionate about their work in the field, but I have also heard a lot of concerns, not only about the downsizing, but also about the very meaning of their commitment to our environment. Everyone is well aware of the discourse on the reduction of public expenditure, which involves rationalisation, performance indicators, dematerialisation, optimisation, simplification and mutualisation. Quantitative results: 3.04 % decrease in commitment authorities, and 2.76% decrease in payment appropriations! From Cantal, this translates directly on the workforce: in total, there are 799 fewer. There is therefore a contradiction between, on the one hand, the political discourses in which everyone agrees that the fight against biodiversity erosion is at the heart of preserving our environment, and, on the other hand, the reality of the budget lines which do not reflect this concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u20	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u21	For to preserve the complexity of an environment, which assures it balance and ability to resist, it takes agents on the ground, able to explain, prohibit and sometimes regenerate this environment. These officers believe that they are no longer sufficiently numerous on the ground in the regions, in the departments and overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u23	This reflects the strategic evolutions of your department: ecology would no longer be a public service, but rather a public policy like any other. In other words, the ecology would be limited to credits without the need for staff. This is a profound mistake, because ecology is, above all, a physical presence, of agents in the field. The Ministry is endangering its specificities, including that of a public service anchored in the territories. On the ground, I heard the alert of the personnel who explained to me that they were on a ridge line, and that any shrinking would make disappear entire sections of the preservation of our environment. However, by 2020, 602 ETPT jobs in deconcentrated services will still be eliminated. These downsizings raise concerns about the loss of the transmission of expertise, an irremediable loss of field knowledge. In the long run, the loss of this information will make any implementation of an effective environmental policy erratic. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you have understood, I am in total disagreement with the cuts in numbers, which first affect the territories. They represent an accounting vision that is inconsistent with the political objectives set by the Government. This budget does not contain sufficient guarantees for the maintenance and development of an ecological policy, particularly in the area of biodiversity. That is why your draftsman has delivered an opinion which is unfavourable to the adoption of the appropriations for programme 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u24	Mr Adrien Morenas, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u25	The programme 113, which is the core programme for biodiversity policy, benefits from EUR 201 million in payment appropriations in the draft finance law for 2020 and EUR 195 million in commitment authorisations. Compared to the original 2019 finance law, this represents an increase of €40 million in payment appropriations, and €30 million in commitment authorisations. This is a positive sign of overall budgetary inflexibility. This almost 25% increase in the programme's appropriations is due to the creation, on 1 January 2020, of the French Office for Biodiversity, which will receive EUR 41 million in budgetary appropriations. A working capital levy of EUR 10 million, which seems compatible with the OFB's cash position, will help to balance the budget in 2020. In 2021, the budget allocation will increase from EUR 41 million to EUR 51 million. The remainder of the program's funding is stable compared to 2019. On the other hand, there is a downward trend in the numbers of certain operators involved in these policies. This is particularly the case for national parks that lose three FTEs and water agencies that lose forty FTEs. The OFB is also expected to lose sixty-seven positions by 2022, even if none of them are lost in the PLF for 2020. In total, the employment pattern of Program 113 results in a decrease of 75 FTEs in the Finance Bill for 2020, after a decrease of 78 FTEs in 2019. This reality is paradoxical in that some of the operators concerned are experiencing an extension of their tasks. That is why, in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, we adopted an amendment to raise the employment ceiling for water agencies by 40 FTEs and for national parks by 8 FTEs. We hope that the Government will follow us in this effort to strengthen some of the key actors in biodiversity policy, actors that have already undergone significant restructuring in recent years. More generally, I will support another amendment to ask the Government to present us with a detailed report comparing the evolution of the missions assigned to the various operators and the trajectory of their staff. Indeed, it should be recalled that in recent years the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition has made a major contribution to the reduction of the State's workforce, while its tasks are expected to increase in power, at least in certain areas such as climate change adaptation and biodiversity. I am also concerned about the situation of the National Forestry Office, which carries out several biodiversity missions, although it is part of the "Agriculture, Food and Forests" mission. Its debt now stands at 450 million euros. It is therefore crucial to rethink how it is funded, as well as our colleague Senator Anne-Catherine Loisier recently addressed this issue in a report. I come to the credits of programme 159 "Expertise, économie sociale et solidaire, information géographique et métoire". This programme has EUR 510 million in commitment and payment appropriations, compared with EUR 514 million in commitment and payment appropriations in 2019, a slight decrease of EUR 4 million. Since 2018, this programme brings together the subsidies for public service charges of CEREMA, IGN and Météo France, as well as the resources allocated to the Office of the Commissioner General for Sustainable Development. With regard to CEREMA, it must be noted that this operator is currently facing difficulties as a result of the reduction in its budgetary allocations and its staff. The draft finance law for 2020 provides that its subsidy for public service charges will again be reduced by €4.7 million, to €196.5 million. This grant has already decreased by €20 million between 2015 and 2019, leading to a decrease in the investment budget, which represents only €7 million out of a total budget of about €230 million, including own resources. However, in order to develop its own resources, the operator needs sufficient staff to respond to calls for tenders. In addition, many of CEREMA's equipment is at the end of its life and is based on sometimes obsolete technologies. In 2020, CEREMA is expected to lose 101 jobs, after losing 103 in 2019. For the first time, the public service subsidy will no longer cover all staff costs. Yet we are in a time of great need for infrastructure and public engineering, especially given the need for adaptation to climate change. The situation of CEREMA is therefore intolerable. Together with my colleague Danielle Brulebois, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, responsible for examining programme 181 "Risk prevention", we believe that it is necessary to allow this operator to absorb the restructuring under way before going further. That is why we have tabled an amendment, which has been adopted by the committee, to limit the loss of subsidy paid to CEREMA to EUR 1.5 million, i.e. the savings allowed by staff reductions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With the exception of these points of vigilance, for which I hope we can move together towards improvements, I am in favour of adopting the appropriations for programmes 113 and 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u26	Mr Christophe Arend, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u27	I have the honour to present to you the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning on the appropriations for programme 174 'Energy, climate and post-mines'. The Finance Bill for 2020 makes significant changes to them. Two new actions "Accompaniment of the energy transition" and "Aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles" now account for almost 83% of the programme's appropriations: these are more than €2 billion that are intended to help our citizens reduce their energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Action 02 "Accompaniment of the energy transition" brings together the appropriations dedicated to the energy check and those intended to finance the new energy transition aid premium, which will gradually replace the ISCED. The new premium was initially targeted at households in the first four deciles, with an allocation of EUR 390 million, which corresponds to a doubling of the budget for the same population compared to 2017. In particular, in the face of the fears of construction professionals, the majority deputies alerted the Government and obtained a review of the scheme. Now, for some works, renovation aid will be extended to the most favoured households in the ninth and tenth deciles, initially excluded. For middle-income households, the Government proposes to make the total renovation costs eligible for ISCED. We fully support the new premium scheme, which makes it possible to increase the renovation effort for the poorest households, a weak link of the ISCED. Action 03 "Aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles" takes over the premium for the conversion of polluting vehicles, which will be reduced by 32% due to the application of more stringent environmental criteria. The green car bonus will increase by almost 50% to support the development of the electric vehicle market. Action 04 "Economic and social management of post-mines" will have a budget of €340 million in 2020, including €299 million for the financing of the National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors, ANGDM. ANGDM is currently experiencing management difficulties. Its appropriations have been planed over the budget years, so much so that the Agency's cash flow is now at a dangerous level. The funds allocated for health and social action are insufficient to meet the essential benefits for an older and older public, whose overall cost is falling less rapidly than the 5% reduction in the number of eligible beneficiaries. It is crucial that the Government preserves the means of action of the ANGDM in the years to come. Action 05 "Combatting climate change and air quality" has a budget of €34.2 million, a slight increase. It is mainly used to finance bodies responsible for air quality monitoring at national and regional level. The detailed review of these appropriations and their allocation would require some reservations. Action 01 "Energy policy" includes, for the first time, the State's support for the conversion projects of the siting areas of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant and the last four coal-fired power plants. The State has taken on its responsibilities as it has given this action €40 million in commitment authorisations and €10 million in payment appropriations, which we welcome. Finally, the appropriations in the energy transition trust account amount to €6.3 billion. In addition to the repayment of the State debt to EDF, which will end in 2020, the trust account finances support for the renewable energy sector. If the level of expenditure is slightly reduced in support of solar or wind electricity, support for the biogas sector is up by more than 88% compared to 2019. This considerable effort should make it possible to strengthen the development of this sector and to achieve the objectives of the future multiannual energy programming – EPP. The year 2020 is also expected to be the last year of this trust account. An amendment by Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol, adopted during the examination of the first part of the finance bill for 2020, provides for the closing of the account in 2021, in accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In view of these various elements, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has adopted the appropriations of the Energy, Climate and Postmines programme, as well as those of the energy transition trust account: they constitute a budget of responsibility, to the benefit of our most disadvantaged citizens, in the context of climate change, which we must combat.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u28	We now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u29	While the ecological and climate emergency is a shared concern every day a little more widely, is the ecological budget for 2020 up to the stakes? This essential issue will undoubtedly be at the heart of our discussions this afternoon. The 2020 budget of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" is progressing in appearance, in particular as a result of changes in scope. It includes interesting measures: the new premium for energy renovation, the support of the territories concerned by the closure of the four coal-fired plants, the extension of the premium to the conversion of the well-functioning car fleet and the energy check. Other equally interesting provisions were adopted in the first part, such as the new eco-contribution on air transport and the contribution of 2 cents of road transport, which will make it possible to finance the mobility investment programme. Despite these good measures, can we say that this 2020 budget is a really green budget and that it is in line with the ecological and climate emergency? In my opinion, the account is not there yet, and first of all because of the investment deficit. The new budget yellow "Financing the ecological transition" sheds new light on this fundamental issue, and therefore on our parliamentary debates. The answer is clear: if we were to meet the commitments we set ourselves in the national low carbon strategy, we would have to invest an additional EUR 15 billion each year, half of which is public investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u30	Well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u31	How can this investment deficit be filled? That is what we have not yet discussed sufficiently during the preparation of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u32	Not debated at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u33	And I say it again for Julien Aubert: it would take 15 billion euros of investment per year in the first years, and 30 billion the following. This finance bill for 2020 is too timid with regard to investment in ecological transition. Another approach is possible. I call on the Government to adopt it in the coming months and years. My second area of concern is the too large a decline in human resources allocated to ecology, as the various rapporteurs have pointed out in their reports and interventions. This concern, shared on all sides of the House, must be heard. More than 1000 fewer jobs in nature parks, water agencies, ADEME, Météo France, CEREMA, operators and the deconcentrated services of the ministry of ecological and solidarity transition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u34	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u35	How can we do more about ecology and effectively support actors on the ground with decreasing means? We touch on the limits of the exercise. Deconcentrated service agents and operators frequently express their concern. I therefore call on the Government to reflect and, why not, to review this downward trend over the next few years. Finally, I would like to sound the alarm on a few topics in particular. The first is energy renewal and the means allocated to it. As I said, the new premium on energy renewal is a good measure, but it will be applied in a very constrained context. Will we be able to reach the target of 500,000 to 600,000 efficient energy renovations per year?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u36	Not sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u37	That's a real question. In the event of the success of the scheme, it may be necessary to re-abundate the appropriations of the National Habitat Agency – the ANAH – with an increase of 450 million euros in the draft finance law for 2020. In any event, we must closely monitor the implementation of the scheme, with quarterly progress reports if possible. To put an end to the rental of energy coffers, the extension of the new premium to homeowners as early as 2020 would have been useful, but I noted the Government's commitment to consider it by 2021. More measures are needed, however, to move forward on this issue. As far as vehicle changes are concerned, the premium is working well, as pointed out in a report released last week. I reiterate the proposal, already made last year, to extend it to households determined not to buy back motor vehicles. This would be a good way to advance the conversion bonus. Finally, the hydrogen plan has been the subject of numerous interventions by all political groups in committee. We want to be sure that it will be well financed to the tune of 100 million euros per year, thanks to appropriations allocated to ADEME and also thanks to the major investment plan 2018-2022. It is important, in my view, that this strong commitment of the Government, made in May 2018, be kept, and that the hydrogen plan be up to the stakes. We will return to that in the discussion. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and UDI-Agir groups. – Mr Jean-François Mbaye, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also applauds]] In order to fully realize the ecological shift, more human resources, more investment and more stakeholder support will be needed in the future. We must not be afraid of this, nor should we consider these different subjects through a budget vision that is too short-term. Investing in ecology is a profitable investment. He is the only one that will make the future desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u38	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u39	Madam Secretary of State, as I said in committee, your budget is an insult to our future, and I am convinced that within you, you know that it is not up to the environmental emergency. Nearly 5000 positions will be eliminated in your department by 2022. Your government has a sense of priority! The champion of the planet sabers in the ministry with enthusiasm that is hard to see. You certainly do not share the sense of urgency shared by so many French people, as demonstrated by the scale of the youth climate movement. And today I want to tell you why, Madam Secretary of State. You have a sense of urgency, or rather panic, but it does not come from the speed with which climate change and the mass extinction of species are based on us. This feeling of panic comes to you, on the contrary, from the increasingly inevitable changes that we need to make in order to face the ecological challenge. You're afraid to change the property regime while no release should be given to anyone to destroy our living conditions. You're afraid to put limits on the freedom to undertake, which you love so much when it serves the biggest shareholders. You are afraid to give the public power a necessary centrality, with a massive investment plan in renewable energy and research. You're afraid to think about the long term and produce a plan for 100% renewable energy, a plan to reduce energy consumption and massive isolation of housing. You're afraid of the world that's coming. Your new world, an argument of sale at the service of the macroist shop, exists only in the narrow minds of a fearful little bourgeoisie, bent on itself and who prefers to close their eyes to your attacks on public freedoms rather than accept the need for profound transformation of our societies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u40	What an insubmission!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u41	However, business will never happen again as before: this is the first lesson for anyone who is starting to take an interest in the ecological crisis. The officials are known,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u42	The rich of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u43	... and you continue to support them shamelessly: Bayer-Monsanto poisoners can sleep quietly with you, Total's destroyers can go down in peace, with your blessing and even your fossil fuel subsidies, Vinci's concretemakers, Bouygues and Eiffage can continue to destroy more and more arable land, by exploiting posted workers shamelessly. All these interests you support rob us of our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u44	You rich bastards!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u45	Do not think that the group La France insoumée will let you continue this way. We're not afraid.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u46	That's Greta!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u47	We see what is happening in Algeria, Chile, Lebanon, Ecuador and so many other countries of the world: the peoples are determined to stand up against the oligarchies that crush them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u48	Like Venezuela!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u49	This is one of our greatest reasons for hope. A popular power, based on the interests of the social majority of a country, will be an ecological power. We are the movement of this hope, the opportunity for the whole people to address the ecological issue. Finally, ecological planning must be organised. Your policy is clearly not up to the stakes. You continue to think of the environment as a part of public policy, while popular ecology as we conceive it redefines not only the entire public policy but also the relationship of production and consumption in society. Organise the whole of agriculture for the transition to peasant and ecological agriculture, generalize the short circuits and stop the madness of free trade that continues to produce greenhouse gas emissions: these are the guidelines that should drive a truly ecological political action. But we know what animates you on the contrary: it is about the love of the rich, the general distribution and continuous distribution of our common goods to small groups of private interests. That is the heart of your action. And let me tell you that such a general principle of action is obviously incompatible with ecology, because it is not possible both to venerate the concentration of wealth and to respond to the ecological urgency. I hope you're living this obvious and grim contradiction pretty badly, so much so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u50	Hulot lived it! It took him a long time to realize it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u51	Your government does not afford itself the means of an environmental policy, because it refuses to build public power on the fact that everyone pays the tax, including those who steal us 100 billion euros a year and then believe themselves the right to give lessons to the whole world! Fiscal solidarity is solidarity for ecology. By refusing to seek the money of fraud, to tax the rich as they should be, and to restore national solidarity, you and your government are helping to destroy the species and the living. We will vote against this budget because, as Keny Arkana sings, "It doesn't matter to her, the time, the world can die around her Madame la Marquise The castle's burning, I know it's crazy. For once, please, wake up! The flames have already attacked the crowds Look around! Madame la Marquise The castle burns, the air is filled with sulphur Are there any emergency exits left? React before everything collapses Time is running out, Madame Marquise » [[Mr. Éric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, applauded]] So you and your government are acting, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u52	[[Smile]] That's what we call a success of esteem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u53	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u54	However, things had begun well since, at the time of the presentation of the finance bill, the Minister of Action and Public Accounts boasted of the very sharp increase in the ecological budget, with more than 800 million euros in additional appropriations in 2020. "Ecology has the highest budgetary priority! He said. "The energy transition is an absolute requirement. We'll do better and we'll do more! Even his colleague from the Ministry of the Economy would raise the price. From there to believe that the executive had integrated the imperative of protecting the living and the climate, there was only one step, that, however, we did not pass so much the reality of this budget is finally far removed from the announcements that I have just recalled. Recognize, Madam Secretary of State, that the 1073 abolitions of positions within your department should have alerted national representation to the duplicity of government. We were promised the Republic on the march, and we finally only have slogans from the Republic. And it is not by squandering this budget with a few green measures without any question of lifestyles, consumption patterns and governance that your ministry will succeed in slowing down the crazy race in which we are collectively engaged. Madam Secretary of State, ecology can no longer be content with declarations of intent! Your ministry must live up to the leadership suit that the President proudly wears, giving lessons to the face of the world. Therefore, the budget year should have been a concrete translation of the priority given to the ecological requirement. Unfortunately, this is far from the case. It still seems useful to recall that in 2016, the National Public Health Agency estimated the number of premature deaths related to air pollution in France at 48,000. On the basis of this observation, we can only condemn the indigence of the energy budget proposed to us this afternoon. The few credit increases are only facial in that they result from transfers of credits from other programs. Used to this budget pass-pass trick, the GD Group denounces it unreservedly. If we deduct the new shares, we actually find ourselves with 825 million euros in commitment authorisations and 795 million in payment appropriations for the "Energy, climate and post-mine" programme, a 20% decrease compared to the 2019 budget. Nor are there any salient points in the fight against air pollution, despite the catastrophic figures of the National Public Health Agency and as we are leniently exceeding the limit values of fine particles and nitrogen dioxide. In addition to the 48,000 premature deaths that I recalled, France's conviction last 24 October by the Court of Justice of the European Union for having "systematicly and persistently exceeded the annual limit value for nitrogen dioxide" (the Court's press release) since 1 January 2010 should, however, have seriously challenged the Government. But again, we think we hear: "Circulate, there is nothing to see. » Not only will your measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions be ineffective, but no structural investment is being made while the experts of the Institute of Climate Economics estimate between €45 billion and €75 billion a year the annual investment needs necessary to achieve the climate targets set by our country. Already last year, the same institute showed that 20 billion euros were missing from the state budget. Meanwhile, Germany, which serves as a model for France, has just announced that it would take advantage of low rates to pursue a major investment policy of EUR 100 billion. Moreover, the conversion premium, which has proved its worth, suffers a sacrificial drop of more than 30%, while the transformation of the energy transition tax credit looks like an announced disaster! Only 800 million euros will be mobilised in 2020 for housing renovation, compared to 900 million euros last year and 1.6 billion euros in 2017. Refocusing the scheme on modest, if not very modest, households to enable them to carry out work to improve their housing is an economic nonsense, since the leftovers will be far too high for these households to make use of it. Therefore, there is a high probability that you will not even spend the 800 million euros you have budgeted. In terms of ecological taxation, this time, nothing new under the sun. However, it would have been opportune to begin a reflection on the allocation of revenues from the auctioning of carbon allowances, as this would have the advantage of bringing new credits almost painlessly to the French. [[Mr Hubert Wulfranc and Mr Éric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, applaud]] Madam Secretary of State, our group regrets that, beyond appearances, your ministry clearly did not hear the new alarm cry made by the IPCC in its latest report on climate change, oceans and the cryosphere. In this context, how can the state continue to spend EUR 25 billion a year on environmentally harmful investments? We expected this budget to establish an ambitious, voluntary and clear roadmap; We hoped that it would also contain innovative policies for the benefit of territories and populations, a budget that would pay particular attention to the overseas countries and territories, the first victims of climate change, while they are home to 80% of national biodiversity, half of which is in Guyana alone, where, unfortunately, the appropriations for the mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility" are down by 4.5% in payment appropriations and 3% in commitment authorisations. In short, we expected a lot, and we found ourselves with nothing or almost anything. Under these circumstances, you will understand, Madam Secretary of State, that Members of the GDR Group will not be able to support you and will vote against the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u55	Mr Anthony Cellier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u56	Through the climate energy law, our majority has chosen to declare the ecological and climate emergency, an emergency that we must respond to far from the unrealistic postures and proposals. In the face of this urgency, the time is no longer ripe for observation: we must act with concrete measures at international level, within the European Union or on our soil. And that is, for example, what we are doing by closing our last four coal-fired power plants within two years, while accompanying, with this budget, the territories through a fund – which Julien Aubert has noted and strongly encouraged – and by putting an end to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. In the face of this urgency, the time is no longer ripe for incantations: we must raise awareness, encourage, facilitate, accompany our fellow citizens and, if necessary, sometimes compel or prohibit. With regard to the appropriations of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" for the year 2020, they amount to EUR 13.2 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 13.3 billion in payment appropriations, i.e. 7,5 % more and 9,1 % more, respectively, compared with the appropriations opened in the original financial law 2019. The budget of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition increases by €830 million. However, there has been a downward trend in the department's workforce. Madam Secretary of State, I would like you to clarify this point. It is of course important that the ministry and its operators have the human resources necessary to advance the ecological and energy transition. This year's mission focuses on three main areas of action: supporting citizens in the energy transition on a daily basis; massive investment to improve daily transport; the defence of life and biodiversity. To respond to the climate emergency is to tackle the most emissive sectors of greenhouse gases, namely transport and construction, which are at the heart of French daily life. After the triptych "information, obligation to renovate and sanction" of the climate energy law, this finance bill enshrines the transformation of the ISCED into a unified bonus with the "Having Better" programme of the National Agency for the Improvement of the Habitat, intended for the most modest households, starting in 2020. I would like to reassure Julien Aubert: it is not very complicated to benefit from the device. No need to know how to play Rubik's Cube, you just need to know how to read a double input table income/type of work. We also decided, in the first part, that the most affluent households will not be completely excluded from the scheme, but rather accompanied by the most efficient gestures. This budget also continues to support our modest citizens through the energy check, which is expected to benefit nearly 5.7 million households in 2020. With regard to daily mobility, we are strengthening, in the continuity of the mobility guidance law, aid for the purchase of cleaner vehicles with a 50% increase over the 2019 LFI for the car bonus which, coupled with a conversion bonus, is more targeted at the cleanest vehicles and the most modest households. This draft finance law also allows for an increase in the operational expenditure of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, which increases from €2.2 billion to €3 billion for cleaner daily mobility and for all. Finally, the urgency is not only climate, it is also ecological. It is therefore necessary to make special efforts to preserve biodiversity. I would like to highlight the creation of the French Biodiversity Office, with €41 million in funding to carry out its tasks. This budget is therefore a continuation of the policy decided for more than two years and implements certain commitments made within the climate energy law and the mobility guidance law. We are also moving forward on the concept of the green budget, which will measure the impact of the budget on the environment. The response to the environmental and climate emergency is not just a budget: it must be so supportive, and that is what must guide us in our choices and in our votes. The response to the environmental and climate emergency should not be seen as a constraint, but rather as an opportunity for our country to become a society, to rethink our relationship to mobility, production or energy consumption, and an opportunity for our companies to position themselves in innovative and job-creating markets. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is only in this way, by acting at all levels and at all levels, that we will provide a concrete response to the immense challenge facing us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u57	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u58	As part of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" of the second part of the finance bill for 2020, we are called upon to examine the budgetary means devoted to the financing of community support for rural electrification and, more broadly, to the energy transition. Although the funding of community support for electrification requires little comment, I would like to point out three concerns to which my colleagues in the group are concerned. The Republicans and I are committed to security of supply, equal treatment of territories and consumers, and the ability to respond quickly to security and repair operations following natural disasters. Therefore, we regret the stability of this budget – which amounts to EUR 377 million – and therefore the lack of additional resources to strengthen the capacity of the electricity grids to cope better with hazards, particularly climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u59	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u60	We also regret the lack of action to establish a special fund to meet the needs of security and reparation following a natural disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u62	With regard to the appropriations allocated to the energy transition, the Group of the Republicans wishes to stress that the ecological taxation borne by the French – which includes the internal consumption tax on energy products, the TICEP, the contribution to the public electricity service or the local taxes on electricity – represents, for the state budget, around EUR 50 billion in revenue. Such an amount should enable effective measures, in line with the expectations and needs of our citizens, to ensure a fair energy transition. This is not the case, since only part of this amount is allocated, the rest being used to finance the State's deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u63	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u64	Like our fellow citizens, we regret that we are not able to quantify exactly the ecological taxation levies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u65	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u66	...which reinforces territorial inequalities and social injustices. We therefore regret the lack of transparency in shifting the resources allocated to actions financing the ecological transition for our daily lives. To illustrate my point, I will draw on the example of fuel taxation: the majority is constantly increasing taxes on fuel at the pump. During Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, diesel will have increased by 31 cents, and gasoline by 15.5 cents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u67	By charging VAT on ICTPE! It's outrageous: we charge the tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u68	This additional EUR 14 billion, taken from the French, could seem justified if real alternatives to the use of the car were envisaged. On this point, do not consider, please, that the ecological bonus is a response to the expectations of our most modest fellow citizens, even though the rest for a Frenchman wishing to equip himself with a non-polluting vehicle can exceed 15,000 euros, as Julien Aubert has already pointed out. In order to respond to the challenge of the energy transition as it applies to the movements of the French, the elected members of the group The Republicans propose, among other measures, to support the production, in our territories, of renewable energies that contribute to the energy autonomy of France – such as alternative fuels, ethanol E85, biogas and hydrogen, which we very much hope for in 2020. These fuels are both less polluting and less expensive: they tick all the boxes of the energy transition, except that of your political will. This is how you refused to use the €6 billion pool resulting from the increase in the ICTPE between 2017 and 2019 to finance sustainable mobility in rural areas, as the Republican Group had proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u70	In the same way, less than 20% of the carbon tax finances the energy transition: you use the fight against global warming as an argument for increasing taxes, which the French and French understand well. With regard to the action "Management of the environment and biodiversity", even if the appropriations for payments opened are on the increase, the new French Biodiversity Office will be characterised, in fact, by a gap between the funding of EUR 41 million planned by the State for 2020 and the contribution of the water agencies, which will be between EUR 316 million and EUR 343 million. This highlights the real disengagement of the State to the detriment of the territories. In addition, the establishment of this new institution will encroach on the tasks and prerogatives of the departmental federations and create new constraints, which will result in a complex procedure. I remind you, Madam Secretary of State, that actions to protect biodiversity, financed by the departmental federations through the payment of €5 per validated hunting permit, will have to be certified by the OFB, in contradiction to the principle that "who pays decides". It will be difficult to explain to the departments that a significant part of the budget of their federations will be under the supervision of a national structure. Beyond this, the creation of OFB is also associated with social tensions. The institution will inherit incomplete funding, which therefore does not seem to be serenely assured, as David Lorion pointed out in his budget opinion. Even more serious difficulties relate to representativeness on the future Board of Directors: whole sectors will be excluded, thus weakening the basin committees, which will be the main financiers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote against the adoption of the budget for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u71	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u72	The energy and ecological transition is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges of our century: it challenges the way we consume, produce, move and live. This challenge is significant because we are witnessing the slow erosion of our biodiversity and the rapid extinction of animal and plant species. As a result, awareness of the environmental and climate emergency has never been so widespread. It is progressing with elected officials, decision-makers, but above all with the population. Climate protection movements have taken on an unprecedented scale. That is why our actions and our means must accompany them. The budget we are discussing today must give concrete expression to the priority given to the ecological requirement in order for France to establish a tax system in accordance with its claims. That is the case with the budget that you are presenting to us, Madam Secretary of State, whose increase of EUR 832 million I welcome. I am pleased, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic and Related Movement, to note the many articles in the draft finance bill which intend to define a new French energy strategy. Let me also note the rise in the power of the Heat Fund, for which my group has been very active over the last two years. The increase will encourage the development of heat networks, which will be more energy efficient and will be able to green the heating of many dwellings on a large scale. Energy policy is, of course, a policy in favour of the energy transition. We will have to be particularly vigilant about the development of new energies. I am thinking in particular of hydrogen, which can be one of the solutions for electrification of transport, or biogas, which has many advantages, such as the recovery of our waste and a sharp reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions. We have sent positive signals, in the context of the energy and climate bill, for the diversification of our energy mix, but we need to go even further. This requirement will also apply to the development of the circular economy that we will be discussing at the end of the year when we review the bill. The finance bills reviewed so far have dealt only with the margin of preserving our resources and transforming our production patterns. The strengthening of the ADEME's support for community projects to develop their waste, provided for in your budget proposal, is, of course, in the right direction. We will support you, Madam Secretary of State, in your next initiatives on this issue when we review future finance bills. On a completely different subject, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the energy check is only used by 78% of its beneficiaries: about 20% of them do not use it. This is partly due to the fact that the scheme is open to independent residence managers – ex-households – who are APL-contracted, but not to EHPADs, whose residents cannot use their energy check. This constraint is incomprehensible, first and foremost based on a social dimension. Based on the assumption that 10% of residents actually received a cheque in their name, 30,000 energy cheques cannot be used by EHPAD residents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u73	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u74	We therefore propose to lift the APL contractual obligation. There would be no breach of equality with other donors, as EHPADs, by their nature medicalized, are therefore completely separate from other donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u75	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u76	Finally, I would like to raise a major and often ignored subject, namely energy independence in the ultramarine territories. The latter benefit from considerable renewable energy resources and have strong potential for the emergence of new green industrialization and the creation of local jobs. We aspire to support sustainable development strategies for these territories and will therefore defend an amendment proposing to extend the cost of demolition in areas at high risk. The budget you are presenting, Madam Secretary of State, is a positive development, but we will need to step up our efforts to introduce a truly green and more incentive-oriented rather than coercive tax system, so that it can be accepted by all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u78	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] For all these reasons, the MODEM and related groups will vote in favour of the "Energy" credits of the Mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u79	Excellent intervention, which contains concrete proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u80	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u81	Last July, we unanimously made the environmental and climate emergency the focal point of France's energy policy, by including it in Article 2 of the draft law on energy and climate. This was not just a statement of intent, since multi-annual energy programming laws will now have to set targets and determine actions to respond to this emergency. However, nothing in the Mission's budget appropriations transcribes this direction into reality, even though the State's commitment to energy is important in the environmental transition. Of course, the speech you have given is voluntarist and comforting – not to say it warms – the concerned citizens. In fact, however, your enthusiasm is a little less concrete. How can you justify the 1991 abolition of posts planned in 2020 at the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition? This figure, which will reach nearly 5000 abolitions by 2022, will make this administration the second most affected by the downsizing. Such a reduction in human resources does not seem to us to be consistent, because they are necessary to accompany the ecological transition. The same applies to the reduction in the resources allocated to the energy transition trust account, which I presented in my budget opinion. We do not dispute the reasons for the decrease in the 765 programme, but why not take advantage of this opportunity to mobilise, with a constant budget, the corresponding EUR 942 million, for example in support of renewable energies? The Government expresses its desire to be at the forefront of environmental issues, while at the same time deciding to achieve significant ecological savings. That is why we will vote against the appropriations allocated to this mission. The energy transition of the housing stock, which alone represents more than 7 million renovations to be carried out, is not possible with a tax credit for the energy transition, which will soon be transformed into a premium, the means of which stagnate. The Socialist Group has conducted a wide-ranging reflection on this central issue – housing accounts for 25% of national energy consumption, and energy expenditure on housing is still increasing in the household budget. On 5 December, we will present a proposal for a law in line with the environmental emergency and the climate crisis. It will provide a plan of EUR 300 billion over 30 years, which will allow the removal of thermal colanders and the achievement of the goal of a carbon-neutral housing stock by 2050. If we want to be credible, we must give ourselves the means to do so. By operating on the principle of a repayable advance covering 100% of the amount of the work, this climate premium would remove the problem of the remainder for households, which is the main obstacle to the effectiveness of the current measures. This premium, which is universal and whose repayment, for a fraction of a grant definitively acquired, could take place when the property is transferred, would be financed both by the recycling of existing fiscal and fiscal measures and by the mobilization of financial instruments inspired by those available to the Social Debt Depreciation Fund. Only such an ambition is likely to respond to the environmental emergency and the climate crisis. Program 174 is entitled "Energy, climate and post-mines". However, the budget allocated to social benefits for those entitled to the mining scheme is falling. However, although the number of beneficiaries is decreasing, spending is increasing due to increasingly heavy costs. Will the budget for 2020 be sufficient, Madam Secretary of State? I will conclude by referring to the Montagne d'Or project carried out in French Guiana. While the item on this project has been removed from the agenda of the departmental committee on mines in Guyana, the Directorate of the Environment, Planning and Housing – DEAL – has issued an opinion in favour of the renewal of the concessions "Boeuf-Mort" and "Elysée", which are at the heart of the mining project. This opinion would essentially be based on a strict reading of the law, which provides for the possibility of a renewal of the law. It goes without saying, however, that the result of this instruction appears orthogonal to the Government's speech on the matter. If the decision to extend the concessions alone does not lead to the authorization of works and operations, it cannot be imagined that the State can renew these concessions, potentially for twenty-five years, leaving any possibility for a future government less committed to environmental issues to grant such authorizations. Nor can this question be referred to a reform of the mining code, which has been expected for decades, but which has not yet come into being. Madam Secretary of State, if the Government considers, as it says, that the industrial project of extraction Montagne d'Or in Guyana is incompatible with the environmental protection requirements of our country, we must put an end to it once and for all. What is your commitment today regarding the end of the concession enjoyed by the Montagne d'Or Mining Company? For all the reasons I have just stated, the Socialist and related group will vote against this "Energy" budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u82	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u83	Four and a half per cent: this is the rate of greenhouse gases that our country emits too much to meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement. Two decimal seven: it is the number of planets that would be necessary if all of humanity lived like us, French. Two degrees: it is the limit of global warming that we set ourselves for the end of this century, and which would involve dividing global CO emissions by three by 2050 – which would bring us back a century, while GDP has been multiplied by ten and the world population by four. Four million: the number of French households affected by energy poverty, i.e. unable to meet their basic energy needs because of their resources or housing conditions. This is what France spends every year to import oil and gas, and it is as much money as we could reallocate to the collective interest. These few figures represent an unrelenting finding of the relative effectiveness of our public environmental policies over the past several decades. Yet there is a paradox in our country: despite the collective awareness of the need to preserve our planet, the energy transition threatens to be a factor in the social and territorial divide, for fear of rising energy prices, but also for failure to perceive a major social project. In some of our territories, in fact, the energy transition is only perceptible by wind fields and/or by increasing environmental taxes, without the benefits of this transition being directly palpable. As a first step, I would like to welcome the work carried out in the context of this mission with new arrangements under the programme "Energy, climate and post-mines", such as the transformation of ISCED into an aid premium, the energy check or support for the acquisition of low-polluting vehicles: these are concrete solutions for citizens to enable them to initiate their own energy transition. More than ever before, we must reconcile environmental and social efforts in order not to oppose the end of the month and the end of the world. As such, while I welcome the Government's decision on ISCED for the ninth and tenth deciles – a theme that I will not develop, as it has already been discussed – I am surprised that its amount is decreasing between 2019 and 2020. While targeting aid to the smaller categories is a political choice, the energy transition should not under any circumstances be used as a source of savings. Why not keep the 2019 budget, while allocating it to households with the lowest incomes? On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the ADEME budget, which is declining for the second year in a row, while this agency is responsible for implementing the Government's ambitious energy transition objectives. As it becomes a priority for the fight against global warming, I am surprised at this choice, particularly with regard to the deployment of hydrogen, the energy of the future. For example, while the Government has committed itself to investing EUR 100 million a year to develop this energy – which can also be a major French sector, and therefore has an economic as well as ecological interest – the plan was only implemented to the tune of EUR 70 million in 2019, well below the target set. For the year 2020, information on the implementation of this plan is not included in the budget documents. I shall therefore address the lack of information that Members are suffering in the debate. Indeed, we are unable to know how much the Government will invest, for example, in the hydrogen sector in 2020. It seems essential that the ADEME budget, or at least a forecast, be available during the examination of the PLF in the National Assembly. This will be the subject of one of my amendments and I count on my colleagues to help me adopt it – with, I trust, a favourable opinion from the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I believe that this budget is generally in the right direction, but that we still need to step up our efforts. The recent report on the state of the environment in France must challenge us, because the efforts made in recent years are still insufficient: on the nine criteria defined – the "global limits" – we are in the red. To quote Georges Pompidou, "the general interest has this particularity that it is not naturally necessary". It is therefore together – and the IDU group, Action and Independents will be very sensitive – that we will be able to work for ecological intelligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u84	We're done with the interventions of the group spokespersons. The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u85	We all share the feeling of the environmental and climate emergency, which we have already taken note of on the occasion of the Energy and Climate Act. This transition is, in fact, a global transition: transition of our production, consumption and living patterns, agricultural and urban transition. In response to this challenge, the entire Government is mobilized. These are, of course, the appropriations of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, which we are examining today, but also, beyond that, the entire action of the Government – I am thinking of the action of the Minister of Agriculture or of the Minister of Economy and Finance, through the productive pact. This is, moreover, the meaning of the work we have undertaken on green budgeting, which allows us to have a global vision of our investment in ecological and solidarity transition. Taking into account the standard of pilotable expenditure, which excludes expenditure on debts and pensions, and thus measures the real budgetary effort in favour of concrete actions, the financial resources of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition for the year 2020 amount to €32,226 billion: they are therefore well up by €832 million compared to 2019, i.e. around 2.6%, with no scope effect, since this increase is calculated on a reprocessed basis, taking into account changes made between the lines, programmes and the trust accounts. This budget is thus part of the priority given by the President of the Republic to the ecological transition. The staff of the ministerial pole, which you have asked me about, will be 27851 staff in 2020, 23761 staff in the operators and 10544 staff in the annex budget for civil aviation. Public policies are therefore driven both by very important budgetary efforts and by many agents. However, these numbers are down by 597 for the ministerial pole and 276 for the operators, a decrease of 1.4%, a figure quite different from those mentioned in the discussion and slightly below the state standard. I will now mention our different priorities by field, starting with water and biodiversity, which bring together €2.572 billion in appropriations. Water agencies started their eleventh programme in 2019. Their priorities focus on adapting to climate change and, following the foundations of water, on the major challenges of water sharing, protecting our water resource and saving water. We also create, on 1 January 2020, the French Biodiversity Office, by merging the Agence française de la biodiversité and the Office national de la chasse et de la faune sauvage, to simplify our organisation and allow us to be more offensive in terms of preserving biodiversity. This new public institution is financed with an increase of EUR 40 million in programme 113, as Mr Adrien Morenas pointed out, and will be subject to a complete freeze of his job scheme: no job deletion, therefore, within this new operator. We will also create, in 2020, the eleventh national park, the National Park of the forests of Champagne and Burgundy. Mr. Jean-François Mbaye recalled the importance of forests at the national and international levels. Thanks to the diversity of classification and protection tools, protected areas now cover approximately 29.5% of the land and 22% of French waters. In 2020, we will produce a strategy to enable us to develop our protected areas, both land and sea. We will also develop the biodiversity plan launched in July 2018 and host in June in Marseille the World Congress of the International Union for Conservation of Nature – IUCN – which will, before COP 15 – the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity – to be held in China, will translate France's international leadership in this area. In terms of energy and climate, we are mobilising more than EUR 12 billion in 2020. We continue to support renewable energy, which is our first item of expenditure, with €5.4 billion. With multi-annual energy programming, we confirm our ambition to reduce final energy consumption and the development of renewable energy, with quantified targets. Since 2017, nearly 3,000 projects have been selected as part of tenders for solar, ground wind, biomass, hydropower and the Heat Fund. These aid schemes have allowed the share of renewable energy to increase steadily in the energy mix and these projects represent a capacity of 5 gigawatts for photovoltaics and 1 gigawatt for wind. The share of renewable energy in France's electricity mix thus increased from 19.6% to 22.7% between 2016 and 2018. ADEME, for its part, will have nearly 600 million euros in appropriations, which are part of strategies developed with the communities. With these means, the Agency will be able to continue its calls for projects for the energy transition and will in particular develop the Heat Fund and continue calls for projects in the field of hydrogen. We can go back to that in more detail in the discussion in order to inform national representation. However, the energy transition is also about helping our fellow citizens take the step of a more ecological and economical way of life. The energy check device, quoted by several speakers, works well. Benefiting more than 5.8 million households, it sees its utilization rate increase: by about 78% in 2018, this rate is expected to exceed 80% in 2019. As for the issue of EHPAD, it is important and we will be able to deal with it, in particular, in conjunction with the Ministry of Health, in a text which can be proposed by Agnès Buzyn. At the beginning of his term of office, the President of the Republic had undertaken to withdraw 500,000 polluting vehicles from the traffic thanks to the conversion premium. This target is already met, and even exceeded, with almost 690,000 files planned by the end of 2019. However, we will extend this measure in 2020, where €405 million will be spent, plus €395 million for the electric vehicle bonus. Our goal now is to remove 1 million polluting vehicles from traffic during the quinquennium. On the other hand, the parliamentary discussion helped to improve ISCED by integrating certain actions into deciles 9 and 10 and opening it up to the overall renovation work. The new system is no more complicated: thanks to an online simulator, it will be possible, after specifying the type of work desired and the amount of its income, to know immediately the amount of aid that can be paid – and this at the end of the work, which marks a considerable progress compared to ISCED, paid a year and a half later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u86	It's a Rubik's Digital Cube!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u87	The support and information of households will be reinforced by loans in the form of energy saving certificates in the framework of a contract between the State, the obliged and the local authorities – regions, communities of communes, communities of agglomeration, metropolises. Thanks to these financings, households can more easily replace their boiler with more efficient equipment, find better first-level information in municipal receptions and France service houses, and benefit from a reception specialized in the Espaces info énergies which will be intended to be generalized throughout France. Of course, I support the need to continue working on the issue of condominiums, for which further simplification and support will be provided, and to ensure that these arrangements are opened as soon as possible, in 2021, to landlords. Risk prevention will have €532 million, up from 2019. We experienced the Lubrizol accident, which of course reminds us that this is a priority, and we are determined to shed light on the consequences of this accident, like other serious accidents – I am thinking in particular of the fire at the Achères plant in the Paris region. Particular attention is paid to the number of staff dedicated to these missions. The number of inspectors at the classified facilities will be maintained next year, while the number of inspectors at the Nuclear Safety Authority will increase in 2020. For its part, prevention of major natural hazards is linked to communities. The Barnier fund, which will be available for €180 million in 2020, was fully mobilised during last autumn's floods in Aude. It is available during large-scale hazards. In 2020, we will also continue to implement the road map for the circular economy. Presented on July 10, 2019 in the Council of Ministers, the resulting bill is structured around four directions: stopping waste, mobilizing industry, informing to better consume and improving waste collection to combat wild deposits. Strengthening ADEME's support for community waste recovery projects and the control of cross-border shipments of waste will be a budgetary priority. I want to conclude this review with support for research and innovation, which is a fundamental axis that allows us to drive the ecological transition in our economic sectors, but also to develop our sectors in transition. This, of course, refers to the social and solidarity economy, which is at the heart of this transformation. I will conclude by mentioning the territorial transition, with the ecological transition contracts which now concern almost 10 million citizens and reinforced local support for the territories undergoing conversion – I am thinking of the 40 million euros of commitment authorisations opened for the territories affected by the closure of the coal-fired plants. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am at your disposal for further clarification during this discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u88	We come to the questions. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u89	All over the world, as we know, extreme weather events appear as the first direct consequences of ongoing global warming. It's acquired: the globe and its atmosphere are getting warmer, some ice melts and releases greenhouse gases that have been trapped for thousands of years. Thus, an infernal cycle begins: emissions generate warming that itself generates new emissions, and so on. France could be at the forefront of the nations aware of this urgency and play a role in driving a great civilizational change. But, in reality, she's lagging behind. Your budget, Madam Secretary of State, could be compared to the ice pack: it is gradually shrinking. Be careful that you and your collaborators become polar bears lost on pieces of ice, because you only mentioned part of the reality. The 2020 budget provides for the abolition of nearly 2000 items. But you could have gone further: by 2022, 4961 posts will be abolished, in addition to the 13250 posts that have already been abolished between 2013 and 2019. It will be missing €7 million in the Bureau of Geological and Mining Research, while 100 posts will be abolished at the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, Environment, Mobility and Development. The share of nuclear energy in electricity production, let us admit, will not be reduced to 50% by 2025. Glyphosate will not be banned for several years. The kerosene will still benefit from tax exemptions. And so on. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I therefore solemnly ask you – because your speech before the national representative is a commitment of the Government: will France continue its commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions next year? How do you intend to achieve this by deploying so few resources? I must have the frankness to tell you that, for our part, in view of the elements I have just given, we do not believe in them at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u90	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u91	The budget I have just presented to you is up by EUR 830 million, or 2.6%. So it is not melting like the ice pack. The number of posts is down 1.4 per cent, corresponding to about 800 posts out of a total of 60000, a relatively small reduction in relation to the number of staff involved, knowing that we are able to improve our organization and find new ways of acting effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u92	That's not what the actors say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u93	Then you ask us if things are moving forward. As far as nuclear power is concerned, it's moving forward. I happen to be accompanying the closure of the Fessenheim power plant. The first reactor will be closed in February 2020, the second in July 2020. This is the first time reactors have been closed. Yes, our ambition is to reduce the share of nuclear power to 50% of our energy mix in 2035. A further 12 closures are planned. All this has been discussed and presented within the framework of the multiannual energy programming, which will soon move to the consultation stage before its final adoption. With regard to agriculture, which must also undergo a profound transition, we have made a commitment to reduce plant protection products by 50% by 2025. We work with each of the sectors, in the 3000 Dephy farms, on the basis of funding from the diffuse pollution levy. We must live up to that commitment. We work on it every day, not against farmers, but with them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We advance daily on each of the segments: energy, agriculture, mobility or territorial transition – since 172 intercommunities are engaged in ecological transition contracts. You're asking us for commitments and actions: they're here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u94	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u95	The ecological transition represents a threefold chance: in the area of social justice, since it is often the most vulnerable among us who are affected by climate change; in the area of economic development, since several hundred thousand jobs are expected to be created within this framework in the next 10 to 15 years; Finally, in the area of spatial planning, since local and regional authorities, such as the regions, will be at the heart of this transition. Within the Republic on the move, our course of action is clear. It consists of accompanying the most modest ones, inciting as much as possible and compulsion as a last resort. I will illustrate the first point by referring to the energy check which has benefited millions of our citizens since we expanded the scope of its beneficiaries. With regard to the second point, I will give the example of the vehicle conversion premium or that of the major boiler change plan, with the offer at 1 euro. Finally, the third point is the ban on hydrocarbons or fossil fuel-fired thermal vehicles, two laws which provide for a transition to 2040, a time limit which leaves the players – the automobile industry in the second case – time to adapt. My question is about the energy check. Its utilization rate is now 80%. This means that several tens of thousands of households do not use this cheque, which has increased from 117 to 200 euros since the beginning of the quinquennium, and which reaches an expanded target since we have increased it from 4 to 5.7 million people. How can we ensure that this rate of use increases further and that the most modest can benefit from it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u96	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u97	Thank you for your question, because the creation of the energy check is an extremely concrete measure to combat energy insecurity. We have chosen to increase the amount, which can reach 270 euros per family, and the number of beneficiaries – 5.8 million households are potentially eligible. We know that social benefits and welfare always take a little time to find their audience. With regard to the energy check, the figures are very encouraging, as last year we reached a recourse rate of approximately 79% for the 2018 fiscal year. This, of course, leaves room for improvement. If this cannot be satisfied, this rate of recourse is already good for a young benefit. For 2019, we anticipate an increase in this rate, which will reach about 83%. In order for this increase to continue, our objective being of course to tangentially tangential the 100%, several avenues are currently under consideration. The first is to continue to target specific audiences. After targeting the citizens who were in direct contracting through the APLs, we must now focus on our fellow citizens living in EHPAD, who must therefore have easier access to the scheme, through direct contracting with the institutions that house them. This is the purpose of the work currently being done with the Ministry of Health. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] On the other hand, work is under way with the beneficiaries to make the information more readable and simpler: how better to write the letters so that they are clearer, more comprehensible? How do we systematize the payment of aid from year to year? When you have used the energy check for an energy supplier, it allows you to request it directly the following year, without the need for further steps. All this specific work of access to information will eventually pay off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u98	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u99	On the basis of Rule 82 of the Rules of Procedure, I regret that ministers and secretaries of state, when on the bench, do not answer many of the questions raised in the rostrum, and even though there are no longer extended committees. I am very pleased that you have answered the question on the energy cheque at the moment, Madam Secretary of State, because at least six rapporteurs have referred to it, and I thank you for the information given. However, you did not provide any evidence to justify the reduction of the 765 program and the lack of compensation. The same applies to the rights holders of the mining regime and the Montagne d'Or project. I would therefore like you to clarify these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Battistel. I am not sure that your point of order was based on Rule 82, but it seems to me that you noticed that during your presentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u101	It was so well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u102	And she's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u103	It was founded!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u104	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u105	On behalf of the MODEM Group, I in turn welcome the Government's commitment to ecology and sustainable development through this 2020 budget. In a context of immense challenges, such as the success of our energy transition, the prevention of risks, the preservation of our resources and biodiversity, and the fight against global warming, the urgency is real. I would like to return to the multi-annual energy programming and more specifically to the situation in the French nuclear sector. The commissioning of the Flamanville RPD has been postponed by at least one year, with an estimated cost of over $12 billion. The EDF Group faces many management, time and cost difficulties. In addition, the closure of the Fessenheim plant, which you have just mentioned, the increasing costs of the Cigeo project – an industrial geological storage centre – for the burial of the waste denounced by the Court of Auditors, as well as the incidents in several plants in recent years. I therefore welcome the Government's request to EDF to submit an action plan to address these recurring problems. I would like to reiterate the importance of the funds that we must devote to nuclear safety, but also to the diversification of the energy mix. In this context, I would like to know what the consequences of these difficulties will be on the trajectory set by France, in particular with regard to its desire to reduce the share of nuclear energy by 71% to 50% by 2035. On the other hand, will the technical and financial means match the ambition to increase the share of renewable energies – wind, photovoltaics or biogas, for example – to 32% by 2028?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u106	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u107	Yes, Mr Loiseau, the objective of our energy policy is obviously to diversify our mix, in order to make it more resilient against difficulties of the kind you mentioned. As I have just pointed out, we intend to reduce the share of nuclear energy to 50 per cent by 2035 and to increase the share of renewable energy to 40 per cent by 2030: this target is more relevant than ever. I have also recalled the closure of the two tranches of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant in 2020, a decision accompanied by a territorial revitalization project signed in 2019 and abounded by a EUR 10 million seed fund. The difficulties encountered by the EPR in Flamanville, which recently fueled the discussions, were the subject of a report by Jean-Martin Folz, who, after having been handed over to Bruno Le Maire and Élisabeth Borne, was followed by a request for a rapid action plan. We must examine all these elements carefully before taking any new decisions on additional nuclear production. The final PPE, which will be open for public consultation in a few weeks, will confirm the precise timetable for the various calls for tenders. As has been indicated this summer, the planned fall in offshore wind prices will no doubt allow us to strengthen the trajectory, especially with regard to biogas, in accordance with the demand made by different actors. On the other hand, this week, with the National Commission for Public Debate – CNDP – we will open a public debate on the new 1 gigawatt tender in Normandy. Of course, solar and terrestrial wind continue to progress in the PPE that we will be presenting shortly, as will all renewable energies. [[Adrien Morenas, draftsman, and Émilie Cariou applaud]] Finally, I stand at the disposal of everyone to respond, in the framework of the parliamentary debate, to more specific points. With regard to the Golden Mountain, I would like to recall the position of the Government, which is also known: since this project is not compatible with our environmental requirements, it will not be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u108	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u109	I would like to return to the ISCED, about which, following the vote on the first part of the PLF, there are still many concerns and questions. While the IDU, Agir et indépendants group welcomes the fact that it is finally transformed into a bonus, it deplores the complexity of the new mechanism: it makes it disheartening from the outset, and the restrictions it imposes risk killing this key tool of our energy transition. You will inevitably demotivate the most affluent households, which you deprive of this tax credit while they are also, sometimes, landlords; and it is not the few compromises made at first reading, alas, that will further encourage them to start work. On the side of very modest and modest households, things don't look better: professionals have alerted us about the much too high remaining burden that will result from the measures included in this finance bill. My first question, which is very factual, will deal with this remaining estimated cost, for a very high performance gas boiler, at 2339 euros for very modest households and 2816 euros for modest households. It's a long way from being annoyed! Do you confirm these assessments, Madam Secretary of State? Otherwise, what are your own calculations, and on what basis do you base them? My second question concerns the doubling of the warm fund, the promise of the President of the Republic during the presidential campaign; Since then, from PLF to PLF, we are desperately awaiting this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u111	Although the heat fund is a very efficient tool for achieving the renewable energy objectives we have set ourselves, it must be noted that its doubling is still not on the table. How, therefore, does the Government intend to comply with the commitment made in the multi-year energy programming to increase this fund to €350 million by 2020, without sacrificing other ADEME missions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u112	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u113	First, I want to reassure you about ISCED, Mr. Bricout. The reform we are defending has several objectives, the first of which is to make aid proportionate to its ecological impact. This is why they are all the more generous because the effect of the actions taken is positive: they are more important, for example, for heat pumps than for gas boilers. The second objective is to raise aid to levels which are all the higher as incomes are low. The combination of these two objectives makes it possible to achieve, for very modest households, an aid rate of more than 90%. This rate, moreover, takes into account only State aid: it can be combined with local aid and, of course, with a zero-rate eco-loan. I therefore believe that, back to what you have said, we will solve the demand of very modest and modest households and, in so doing, will enable them to take action. In fact, we go beyond what exists, namely the programs of ANAH "to live more serenity" and "to live more agility". These, however, concern only a few tens of thousands of households, while the transformation of ISCED into a premium will benefit half of our citizens next year; The volumes involved will therefore be much larger. We will also ensure that the aid rates are high enough to ensure that none of these households are ousted: they must be the first to be accompanied, since they are also the first victims of energy insecurity. As for the heat fund and its doubling, I will start by recalling the chronicle of the credits we are talking about: €259 million committed in 2018; 289 million programmed in 2019; 350 million planned for 2020. We are therefore gradually increasing the allocation of this fund, with a view to doubling it in the long run. The issue is also that of projects, which is why I have convened a working group on heat networks. It will look at their development and greening, which is again an operational way of promoting the development of renewable heat as soon as possible. That is how we can continue to support the decarbonization of housing in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u114	We're done with the questions. Before coming to the next budget discussion, I welcome the arrival on our benches of Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u115	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u116	The meeting was resumed. We are dealing with the budget discussion on transport and maritime affairs. Mr Benoit Simian, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u117	With the draft mobility policy bill, which is coming to an end in Parliament, the Government is committed to an ambitious and credible transport policy for our country. That is to be welcomed. The Finance Bill for 2020 reflects the financial aspect of the programming set out in this policy bill, and I want to highlight, with a certain enthusiasm, the changes that I think are the most important in this regard, while allowing me, Mr. Secretary of State for Transport, to ask the questions that remain unanswered today. In general, on programme 203, "Transport infrastructure and services", budgetary appropriations and assistance funds will reach EUR 5.7 billion in 2020, up 8.5% from the planned implementation in 2019. First of all, the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France will benefit from an unprecedented level of revenue: in 2020, almost €3 billion of tax revenue will be allocated to it. The Government has decided to provide it with a new sustainable resource by contributing the air sector to the financing of land mobility through a surplus of the airfare tax for €230 million. This increase in the Chirac tax is an effective financing tool, but I would like to draw your attention, Secretary of State, to the risks that this new levy could pose to the competitiveness of our national airlines – you know better than anyone. On the other hand, in 2020, the AFITF budget will be complemented by an exceptional fraction of the TICEP of EUR 381 million, which will be in addition to the EUR 1.2 billion planned on an annual basis. With regard to rail transport, the year 2020 will mark, with effect from 1 January, the profound transformation of the SNCF public group into a public limited liability company – the new SNCF. While all French people today suffer from repeated strikes – although probably less today than last week – a considerable national effort is being made to help the public railway group recover and evolve in a market that is soon open to competition. Article 76 of the draft finance law provides for the first stage of the recovery of SNCF Réseau's debt by the State, amounting to 25 billion euros. I particularly welcome the choice made by the Government to ensure full transparency of the cost of this recovery by creating the State-recovered SNCF Network Debt Charge programme. It will enable all French people to monitor the budgetary cost of this debt recovery, which in 2020 will amount to more than 400 million euros. At the same time, the former Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities – ARAFER – which became the 1st October Transport Regulatory Authority – ART – will have its powers extended to the regulation of the airport sector and the activities of infrastructure manager of RATP. Programme 203 takes into account the budgeting of the Authority's funding for an amount of EUR 11.4 million. However, the Transport Regulatory Authority will have to draw on its own working capital to ensure its budgetary balance. Another subject of importance for the safety of the French is the chronicle: level crossings. There are still too many accidents and their consequences are often tragic. Action 51 "Railway safety" has €40 million in funding from AFITF. It goes without saying that this amount is insufficient to modernise or abolish all level crossings, but on these issues we need to innovate in terms of funding, in particular to improve safety equipment. Above all, we must consume the existing credits because today the account is not there! To conclude on the rail sector, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a simple question: where is the report of the Prefect Philizot on the fine lines of the territory, a subject dear to the elected representatives of the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u119	Every year, almost EUR 1 billion is allocated to investment and operating operations on these lines, and yet the movement of trains on this network is likely to be eliminated in the longer term. On this subject, you have to be girondin by acting on a case-by-case basis, depending on the lines, and trusting the territories – as you know – by means of experiments. Everything can't be decided from Paris! With regard to the special-purpose account "Aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles", I regret its abolition; Anne-Laure Cattelot, special rapporteur with me, also said so. In my view, exchanges with parliamentarians would have led to other solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As far as the air sector is concerned, I shall raise two points. With regard first of all to the Annex budget "Air traffic control and operation", the level of investment in 2020 will reach more than EUR 315 million to modernise air traffic control and monitoring systems. On the other hand, the year 2020 will mark the transfer by the State of the ownership of the three airfields of Bora Bora, Rangiroa and Raiatea to French Polynesia. It is on this peaceful note that I conclude, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u120	I call Mr Saïd Ahamada, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u121	France's maritime ambition has a budgetary translation: in 2020, more than €2 billion will be spent on this cross-cutting policy. In this context, the budget for maritime affairs and ports – i.e. Programme 205 and Action 43 of Programme 203 – may seem modest, with only EUR 258 million, but it covers very important activities of the State's maritime action. The sea is indeed a major economic asset for France: the players in the maritime economy participate in a sector of activity whose production value is estimated at 83 billion euros in 2019 and which employs nearly 340,000 people. Nearly 70 per cent of the budget is used for the blue economy. They finance, for €73 million, net money, i.e. the exemption from social security charges for sailors on board vessels subject to strong international competition. This measure has supported the competitiveness of the French flag. As in 2019, €27 million will be earmarked for training sea professionals. Note in particular the evolution of the École nationale supérieure maritime, the ENSM, whose status was revised in 2019 and which will continue to consolidate its services on the site of Le Havre while creating new partnerships – notably in Marseille where it will host the CMA-CGM Academy. The blue economy of tomorrow must above all be green. France, as a great maritime power, must be at the forefront of the ecological transition. First, regulations will be tightened: by 1 January 2020, marine fuels will no longer be allowed internationally if their sulphur content exceeds 0.5%. These regulatory developments will encourage shipowners to opt for cleaner fuels. However, if our ports are not able to supply vessels with liquefied natural gas – LNG – or to supply them with power at dockside, they will turn to other ports. Similarly, if we are too late in developing hydrogen, the ships of the future will be built outside the French shipyards. In order to speed up the installation of power supply infrastructures in ports, I have defended an amendment, which has been adopted, to extend the reduced tariff of the internal tax on final electricity consumption, the TICF. This reduced taxation should encourage ships to stop using fuel oil when they are docked. Beyond LNG and electricity at dockside, France must seriously develop hydrogen. This technology is more successful than one might believe: I am looking for proof of this: the project of maritime hydrogen shuttles in Toulon, which will be financed by ADEME. This budget also finances the operation of the deconcentrated services of the Directorate of Maritime Affairs. It enables the State to carry out its legitimate tasks: security, safety at sea and protection of the marine environment. France controls the ships flying its flag and those stationing in its ports to check that they comply with the standards. It monitors the activity of ships in order to assist them and detect possible pollution as soon as possible. In order to respond to a disaster, it stores and maintains clean-up equipment in the event of the Polmar plan being triggered. Funding for these missions remains stable in 2020. I regret, however, that the appropriations for the operation of ship safety centres – the NSCs – are decreasing, a fortiori as the new standard imposing a ceiling of 0.5% sulphur in marine fuels is approaching the entry into force in 2020, which should lead to an increase in the number of controls. The NSCs control the sulphur content of ship emissions and, if necessary, have the fuel analyzed to confirm an infringement. Overseas, following my alert, the controls on polluting emissions are becoming effective, in particular in Martinique and La Réunion. However, how can the CSN strengthen controls in the hexagon as well as overseas with a declining budget? It is for this reason that I am presenting an amendment aimed at increasing the appropriations of the CSN by EUR 150000 in order to maintain their level in 2019. I'm going to the ports budget. The new national port strategy should soon be officially presented. It will aim to provide France with a competitive port offer while integrating it into the ecological and digital transition. It will be available in each large port through strategic projects. As in 2019, 93.6 million euros will be dedicated to the compensation by the State of the charges related to the operation of the public port service assumed by the major maritime ports. I will conclude with a word on Program 205, which provides for the grant to the National Lifesaving Society at Sea, the SNSM, which is involved in more than 50% of rescue operations. An amendment to this PLF to assign part of the stamp duty paid on boat permits has been adopted, but it has been withdrawn following the announcement by the Government to increase by amendment the subsidy of the SNSM. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u122	The next speaker is Mr Patrick Loiseau, alternate Mr Jimmy Pahun, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u123	If I speak on behalf of the draftsman of the maritime affairs budget, Mr Jimmy Pahun, who cannot be with us this afternoon, I too, as a member of a coastal constituency and a resolutely maritime department, the Vendée, am pleased to speak about maritime affairs in the Chamber. I would like to thank Mr Ahamada, Special Rapporteur, and all those of our colleagues who speak daily on maritime issues, for we share an idea: the 11 million square kilometres of the French exclusive economic zone must no longer be the object of sterile satisfaction, but rather the support of an ambition – the maritime ambition of France, which is expressed in the excellence of its research centres and companies, and which is revealed in the maritime affairs budget. In 2020, the latter will be stable, something that we can only rejoice at. While the commitment authorisations for the 205 programme are falling slightly from EUR 163 million in 2019 to EUR 156 million in 2020, payment appropriations remain at EUR 157 million. Ports appropriations are increasing slightly to almost EUR 101 million in 2020. I would stress this point because it reflects the effort made over the past two years to fill the underfunding of the dredging of large seaports, a subject on which the draftsmen of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning have repeatedly alerted the Government in the past years. It should be remembered, however, that the budget for maritime affairs is calculated as accurately as possible and must be preserved for the duration of the budget. Financial resources must be sustained, but also human resources must be sustained. In this regard, it is regrettable that, again this year, plans are being made to reduce the number of maritime affairs, which will lose nineteen TTEs. This is far from negligible for a low-staffed administration whose role is essential for maritime security and safety. In 2019, two shipwrecks highlighted the importance of these missions: that of an Italian commercial ship, the Grande America, and that of a SNSM star in the Sables-d'Olonne in Vendée. In the first case, all or almost all of the services involved in the State's action at sea were requested to evacuate the twenty-six crew members of the burning ship, to try to extinguish the fire and then to look after and prevent any risk of pollution. Despite the intervention of tug Abeille Bourbon, a Falcon 50 maritime surveillance aircraft and the Aquitaine multi-mission frigate, under the coordination of the regional operational surveillance and rescue centre – the CROSS – of Étel, the Grande America sank. I would like to pay tribute to the administrations and officials responsible for State action at sea, i.e. maritime security and safety, combating pollution and trafficking, and fisheries control. Similarly, I would like to pay tribute to the SNSM volunteer rescuers, who, along with the state services, are involved in surveillance and rescue operations at sea. In June, three of them died at sea. It was the Sables d'Olonne. In the big waves, the footbridge tiles broke out. Deprived of its engines, the boat went through the blade and the quantity of sea on board had it capsized. This tragedy reminds us of the mission of the rescuers at sea and the risks they take to ensure it. More than 4400 volunteer rescuers are distributed among 187 permanent stations along the French coast. In 2017, they helped more than 8,000 people, boaters and fishermen. On behalf of all the rescuers, I thank Mrs Borne, Mr Darmanin and Mr Djebbari for their decision to increase the grant to SNSM by EUR 4.5 million. This will enable them to meet their training needs and to finance the renewal of their fleet. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Advancing France's maritime ambition obliges us to see great, to take a step backwards, to project. We must not forget the men and women who make it a reality every day. That is why I wanted to stress their role and everything that France and the French owe them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u124	Mrs Bérangère Abba, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u125	The 203 "Transport Infrastructures and Services" programme brings together the State's resources dedicated to the national land transport policy. It is unsurprising, but with great satisfaction, that we find that the budget appropriations proposed by the state and the competition funds, mainly provided by the AFITF, faithfully reflect the programming and investments that we have planned in the framework of the mobility orientation bill – LOM. There has been a sharp increase in funding: almost EUR 300 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 500 million in payment appropriations, which we can welcome. The revenue allocated to AFITF for 2020 is also progressing, along a path consistent with what we wanted in the LOM; for 2020, they amount to €2.982 billion, thanks to the reduction of 2 euro cents in the partial reimbursement of ICTPE to road transport, as well as to the increase and dangling of the surplus of the solidarity tax on air tickets, known as the Chirac tax. As rapporteur for the mobility policy bill, I can only welcome this increase in revenue and its impact, which is widely expressed by our fellow citizens and by mobility actors. However, we will have to be vigilant about the sustainability of these resources, in particular the allocation of the 2 euro cents for the reimbursement of the ICTPE from 2021 onwards. Article 76 and the new programme 355 of the draft finance law for 2020 foresee the resumption of SNCF Réseau's debt, with a first stage of 25 billion euros in 2020, and a second of 10 billion euros in 2022. The solution, that of mirror loans, through the Public Debt Fund, will help to clean up SNCF Réseau's finances, while allowing SNCF Réseau to invest again in the regeneration of the railway network. It is on this issue that I have chosen to put a first emphasis in my budget opinion. Indeed, as we know, the state of the rail network is more than alarming. Published on 8 October, Prefect Philizot confirmed his willingness to go beyond this point in his report, in order to draw up, in consultation with the regions, recommendations capable of perpetuating the capillary network. The fine service lines of the territory are very degraded, with their slowing mileage increasing despite one-off interventions; their regeneration is urgent and essential to ensure daily mobility. In this context, the draft finance law implements the commitments made under the new railway pact and devotes priority to the modernization of the existing network. In addition to the redemption of the debt, this will involve the evolution of the multi-annual performance contract between the State and SNCF Réseau, which will increase regeneration investments by some EUR 200 million. I chose, in a second phase, to study the credits dedicated to the development of cleaner and shared mobilitys. It was essential to ensure the translation into the finance bill of the funds required for the fourth priority investment programme of the LOM. The financing of new mobilitys is first and foremost the subject of the call for projects "France Mobilitys – Territories of experimentation of new sustainable mobilitys", abounded by the State to the tune of 10 million euros per year. The bike plan has already started, since a call for projects, financed from AFITF funds and worth €43.7 million, has led to the retention of 152 projects for the creation of axes or cycling continuity; A new EUR 50 million call for projects will be launched in 2020. With regard to the financing of public transport on a clean site, the third call for projects ends with an amount of EUR 150 million remaining to be committed, and a fourth call for projects is foreseen in the course of 2020, with an amount of EUR 450 million. Finally, to those who would be surprised by the deletion, by article 33, of the special trust account "Aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles", I would point out that its credits have been transferred to programme 174 "Energy, climate and post-mines", in order, undoubtedly, to better pilot the bonus-malus and the conversion bonus, while reducing the payment deadlines, which suffered from numerous delays in 2018. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you understand, I am pleased that the Finance Bill for 2020 faithfully translates into programs 203 and 355 as well as into the special allocation account "National Passenger Transport Services" the commitments of the Mobility Orientation Act. I therefore express a very favourable opinion on the adoption of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u126	We now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u127	To start this budget discussion on transport and maritime affairs, it is important to recall some key figures. Transport greenhouse gas emissions were 12.6% higher than the emission reduction target for 2018. The carbon footprint of French and French people, including import-related emissions, is six times higher than would be required. France is not meeting its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, with an overrun of 6.7% in 2017 and 4.5% in 2018. Public and private funding is lacking between EUR 15 and 18 billion per year, while the Institute of Climate Economics estimates that the tax niches on fossil fuels amount to EUR 16 billion. For 2020, you are planning a budget of EUR 13.2 billion, which is in fact only EUR 12.4 billion if you subtract the dedicated "Clean Vehicles" account from the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". As the Secretary of State pointed out, the real increase is therefore only EUR 830 million, of which EUR 400 million is linked to the debt burden of the SNCF. For this year, as for last year, you are planning workforce cuts: the department and its operators will lose 1,073 positions next year, including 797 FTEs for the department. Budget 2019 had already abolished 1078 items; By 2022, 4961 posts were announced to be abolished. A total of 13250 FTEs will have been abolished between 2013 and 2019, of which more than half – 7248 – will have been abolished between 2017 and 2019, or about 12% of the workforce. The performance of transport and maritime affairs is not much better. There is a negative trend in traffic by mode: road transport increases by 2.9 per cent, when rail and inland waterway traffic is down by 4.2 per cent and 0.2 per cent. In terms of rail transport, a very current example clearly illustrates your total inconsequence, that of the early train between Perpignan and Rungis. Recall that this is the only French freight train carrying fruits and vegetables to the heart of the Parisian agglomeration, between 1200 and 1400 tons per day transported from Perpignan to Rungis – and that it has been suspended since July. The condition of the 40-year-old refrigerated cars no longer guaranteed the conditions of safety and maintenance of the cold, and no agreement was reached between SNCF and the two companies that load the train on the terms of renewal of the contract. After claiming that the line would not close, Elizabeth Borne claimed that the line would reopen on 1 November. But last Friday, the train between Perpignan and Rungis remained at dock; it has been replaced by a private combined transport link between Perpignan and Valenton, which is aimed at large areas. The disengagement of the State is therefore the joy of the private and the woe of the climate, with the dozens of heavy goods vehicles that travel on the motorway every day and whose number will continue to increase because of the closure of this railway link. You derail the railway, and "at the same time" you let the river flow! Thus, the French inland waterways – VNF –, a public institution responsible for managing most of the waterway network, again loses subsidies and posts. You are planning to reduce its grant from 1 million euros in 2020 to about 250,000 euros, and its staff ceiling by 2.6%, to 4152 FTEs, compared to 4264 in 2019, or 112 less jobs. With 8,500 kilometres of waterways, France has the longest network in Europe. River transport remains very much advantageous in terms of greenhouse gases, since it emits between four and five times less than the road. When a barge carries 5000 tons, between 200 and 250 trucks are removed from the road. However, this much more environmentally friendly mode of transport has been completely abandoned. You were not the first to apply this policy, but you are pursuing it. Inland freight transport accounts for less than 3% of the tonne-kilometre transported compared to 7% on average in Europe, 12% in Belgium, 15% in Germany and 43% in the Netherlands. This is due to the overwhelming importance of road transport, which you continue to favour. The abandonment of inland waterway transport results in a deterioration of the infrastructure and the loss of know-how due to underutilisation, which is itself the result of the outdated network. It's a vicious circle. In February 2018, the Infrastructure Guidance Board estimated that an investment of €245 million per year for 10 years would be needed to regenerate the network, to which should be added €30 million for modernisation. Of the 275 million euros, VNF received only 180 million. In December 2018, the entire Board of Directors of VNF had opposed the adoption of the budget for 2019. The situation is not going to settle in 2020. So no, we will not vote your credits and we will continue to build, with the movements and in the spaces of self-organization, a social, ecological and democratic alternative to your world in perdition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u128	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u129	Mr Secretary of State for Transport, I have to tell you that your mobility and transport policy devitalises everything that allows safe and efficient travel for our citizens. You are fighting against the employment of women and men who work in this sector of activity. You are focused on technicians, who design and evaluate the transport and mobility infrastructure used by the French; However, their role is essential, since it is not only a matter of spreading bitumen, it is necessary to design infrastructure in advance. For example, CEREMA's grant, which is more than 70% devoted to this activity, is decreasing for a year in a row: the centre will lose almost 5% of its allocation and more than 100 jobs. It is truly unbearable that a country like ours organizes the methodical dismantling of the public establishment in which scientists, engineers and technicians work for the quality and safety of the works of art – roads, roads, bridges – on which tens of millions of French people travel every day. How amazement is that, in the report of the World Economic Forum, France falls to eighteenth place – in eighteenth place, you can hear me well! – in the classification relating to the state of the road infrastructure; It's a brutal stall in half a dozen years. In addition to the range of expertise, an investment effort is still far below the maintenance and renewal needs of the national road network: €930 million per year compared to €1.3 billion, which is advocated by a 2018 audit. Let's not talk about departmental and communal roads, very fragile, deprived of local government investments with frozen finances. In the case of rail transport, the budget for 2020 is essentially in line with the performance contract signed between the State and SNCF, with €2.4 billion in payment appropriations, an amount which has not changed significantly. It should be noted that this operational contract provides €46 billion in investments in ten years, focusing on the modernisation of the most frequent network. However, the Court of Auditors has just noted – again – the inadequacy of the maintenance efforts on the network. The priority given to the most structuring network has found its limits, including in terms of user safety. However, the procrastination surrounding the production of the report on lines classified 7 to 9 by the International Union of Railways – UIC – suggests a major impasse for these regional lines of life. So the means remain very inadequate, and we naturally return, as well as the women and men employed, who ensure the smooth running of the transport and travel of our fellow citizens every day. In this regard, the Government has recently demonstrated itself by an attack of a rare violence against railway workers who have exercised their right of withdrawal following a serious accident in which, alone, the driver of a train has had to overcome the consequences of an intolerable situation: the isolated driving of a passenger train. In spite of your denials – common practice, controlled and reserved for certain lines, you have claimed – this is indeed the trajectory that the SNCF, with your blessing, will continue to take, since you demand unprecedented productivity efforts, which will translate into drastic savings plans on staff. The recovery of SNCF's debt – a result of a policy unilaterally favourable to the TGV, carried out for decades, and the company's wanderings on private markets – results in a decline in the company's human capital. Besides, you have decided to follow the same slope to the RATP. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] It is therefore quite naturally that we refuse to give a discharge to the appropriations for this budgetary mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u130	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u131	We continue to discuss the credits for the mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility" for 2020 through the review of Program 203 "Transport Infrastructure and Services" and Program 205 "Maritime Affairs". We have had the opportunity to discuss the issue of transport in the Chamber at length, as part of the consideration of the mobility policy bill. This text, which I hope will be finally adopted in a few days' time, has four main objectives: to provide everyone and everywhere with alternative solutions to the dependence on the individual use of the car; developing innovation and new mobility solutions; reduce the environmental footprint of transport; investing more in infrastructure that improves daily travel. In the continuation of this text, the transport budget in 2020 reflects the massive investment of the state to improve daily mobility, with €3 billion for transport infrastructure, compared to €2.2 billion in 2018. Moreover, the sharp increase since 2017 in payment appropriations for public transport is indicative of the desire to develop daily transport. However, in order to remain faithful to the ambitions of the LOM, I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the need to sustain the financing of the AFITF for the next few years. In addition, this budget devotes priority to the modernisation of the existing network. Many of us are waiting for the prefect Philizot's report to be published on the territory's fine service lines. These small lines are essential for our citizens, especially in rural and peripheral areas. Indispensable to the planning of a given territory, they are an alternative to the use of the car. Mr Secretary of State, I know you are particularly committed to air transport. We were together last week in Nantes to attend the presentation of the assessment of the preliminary consultation on the project of redevelopment of Nantes Atlantic Airport, an essential infrastructure for the territories of the Great West. On that occasion, you announced the extension of the runway by 400 metres south by 2025, and the introduction of a curfew for night flights before the end of 2021. This is excellent news that will allow the reduction of noise nuisances for the inhabitants of the riparian areas. I now turn to the credits for the 205 "Maritime Affairs" program. France has the second largest maritime public domain in the world, which is a real opportunity for our country, because the stakes are enormous – strategic, geopolitical, military, economic, environmental and security. Moreover, the future Brexit brings its share of uncertainties. The budget we are looking at finances actions relating to civil maritime safety and security policy, social regulation of maritime employment, preventive action in the field of maritime safety, support for the quality and development of the French flag and protection of the marine and coastal environment. I welcome the stability of payment appropriations; they will be EUR 157 million for 2020. However, the Maritime Affairs program does not escape a decrease in its workforce, with a decrease of 19 FTEs. I welcome the 6.2% increase in the budget line for interministerial action on the sea, i.e. EUR 13 million. More generally, it should be noted that the overall budget for maritime affairs and ports has increased to EUR 258 million. Finally, the 2020 budget is, and will remain, that of the State's commitment to SNSM, with an unprecedented increase in its subsidy. In this regard, I welcome the decisive role of the President of our Assembly, Richard Ferrand, and thank the Government for taking this decision. We all remember the terrible shipwreck of star Jack Morisseau, which took place at Les Sables-d'Olonne on June 7, which cost the lives of three rescuers. The men and women of SNSM are true heroes of everyday life, and they deserve our full gratitude. All are very attached to their status as volunteers. I know the courage and self-denial they show. A global reflection on the SNSM model will be undertaken; There are many challenges: changing profiles, training, maintenance and renewal of the fleet. This year, the public subsidy for the project will increase from €6 million to €10.5 million, as committed by the Government. This is excellent news, and I hope that this funding will be sustainable. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, this draft budget will help to achieve the objectives which will be enshrined in the mobility guidance law; it shall maintain the appropriations relating to maritime transport. For these reasons, Members of the La République group will vote for the appropriations for the "Transport infrastructure and services" and "Maritime affairs" programmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u132	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u133	While the Republican Group supports the challenge of reducing CO emissions by 40% by 2030, it seems essential to remind us that this imperative must be reconciled with the maintenance of our economic competitiveness, with the preservation of our energy security and with the safeguarding of the purchasing power of our citizens and the balance of our territories. In this respect, the 0.31% decrease in the payment appropriations for the 203 programme in 2020 is not a good augury. It does not seem to us that this mission is a response to these issues. Indeed, the Government is planning a recast of the ecological bonus-malus, designed to encourage the acquisition of clean vehicles. If we can agree to this objective, we must consider the consequences of such a measure. With the new scale, the malus of some vehicles will be multiplied by seven, and will thus be able to reach 12,500 euros. Such an amount would be understandable if it concerned only the largest cylinders, but that is not the case. Indeed, some affordable vehicles will be able to receive a malus of more than 1500 euros, and some diesel vehicles could be struck with a malus lower than that applied to a gasoline vehicle of the same category! The implementation of such a scale could lead to the postponement of purchases to used vehicles which do not support any malus. As far as AFITF is concerned, you have announced new revenue, Mr Secretary of State, financed by two new levies, one from an additional eco-contribution on airline tickets, paid by airlines between 1.5 euro and 18 euro per ticket, the other resulting from the reduction of 2 cents per litre of the partial reimbursement of the TICEP on diesel fuel, which benefits road freight transport. Our group believes that this revenue will be insufficient and inefficient. What about the project of entrusting AFITF with the task of financing mobility in rural areas through the ICTPE? These are the effects of a rather rough, ineffective and more hypocritical fiscal policy! In addition to these observations, I would add that no incentive measures are being implemented to support the acquisition of light commercial vehicles by artisans. It seems to me that these two remarks justify the opening of a more comprehensive reflection aimed at correcting the adverse effects of the reform of the ecological bonus-malus. On the other hand, let me recall the paradoxical situation revealed by the examination of the means devoted to rail transport. Even though the merits of this mode of transport are praised, at the same time, the budget for Action 41 "Railway" falls by 0.89%, and the SNCF changes or even abolishes some of the service schedules, in the absence of any consultation with users and elected officials. I will take the example of my territory, served by the TGV Roissy-Champagne-Ardenne, in thirty-five minutes so far, and now in two hours, because a passage to Marne-la-Vallée seems indispensable. At a time when the Philizot report is not known, the fate of the small lines is uncertain. Mr Secretary of State, you indicate that the aim is to stop the issue of building permits where there is no rail service, for example by abolishing the zero-rate loan in rural areas, instead of fighting the closure of small lines in these same rural areas. I would remind you that we have debated the mobility policy bill without being aware of this report, and that today we are studying the transportation budget without knowing the actual state or the need to refurbish our lines. In these circumstances, do you think that this budget is likely to meet the expectations of the French in terms of service and rail transport? Do you not feel that the resources allocated are not sufficient to effectively reduce the territorial divide in transport? As for the recovery of SNCF's debt – EUR 25 billion in 2020 and EUR 10 billion in 2022 – it was necessary. What role does the Government intend to play in order to avoid falling back into the debt spiral? Can you tell us whether the Government intends to commit itself to the special pension scheme for railway workers as part of the reform intended by the President of the Republic? With regard to rail freight, we know that its development requires competitive access to infrastructure in order to be efficient. That is not the case. What measures do you intend to implement to increase the competitiveness of rail freight in France? Sustainable mobility is a question of territorial networking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u134	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u135	It is not simply a matter of tax provisions; It presupposes real political will, clearly funded. With regard to the allocation of resources for maritime affairs, we hope that this budget will address the major issues of preserving fisheries resources, maintaining a viable economy, enhancing maritime safety and protecting the environment by adapting them to the many local specificities. Some questions remain. In particular, we question the mobilisation of the appropriations entered in Action 01 "Maritime security and security": could they not be used to strengthen controls, particularly in the Indian Ocean area? Similarly, could the appropriations for Action 04 "Interdepartmental Action on the Sea" be allocated to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing? In the light of these observations, the Republican Group will vote against this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u137	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u138	Mr. Secretary of State, the transportation budget that you are presenting to us today has a very special meaning, because it concludes with the many hours of consideration of the mobility policy bill, which we will pass definitively in the coming weeks. This text is based on an observation shared by all: our transport infrastructure, in many parts of the territory, is in an unacceptable state. This is corroborated by the latest report of the International Economic Forum on Road Quality, which places France in eighteenth position, i.e. 11 places lost in a few years. As a result, we needed to rethink our daily mobility, focusing our investments on renovating existing networks and greening our modes of travel. However, in the absence of guaranteed and sustainable financing, we will certainly stack up good intentions, nothing will happen. We are therefore pleased with the translation into this finance bill of the commitments made in the review of the LOM. These include the creation of a contribution on air tickets, which will abound the budget of AFITF – thus contributing air transport for the first time to the multimodal mobility policy – support for the bike plan, designed to triple cycling by 2024, and the creation of the sustainable mobility package, to the benefit of employees using alternative modes of transport to the car. On behalf of the MODEM and related groups, I welcome the increase in the resources allocated to transport, which will enable us to meet the demands of our fellow citizens on the quality of mobility and to ensure that it is more environmentally friendly. In addition to infrastructure, one of the issues at the heart of the future mobility policy is supporting alternative modes of transport for individual cars and new modes of mobility associated with new technologies. These include the development of multimodality, the testing of autonomous vehicles, support for shared mobility and the transition to new fuels. As such, with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions as well as territorial divides, I will mention two fundamental points in our view. First of all, I would like to draw your attention, Mr Secretary of State, to the importance of supporting the development of the biofuels sector. They have many advantages: reduction of emissions of nitrogen oxides and fine particles, new incomes for French agriculture, much lower prices at the pump... For example, E85 superethanol is half as expensive as gasoline or diesel. Due to these many advantages, biofuels vehicles are subject to significant public support, which undoubtedly favours the sale of these vehicles. We must continue along this path, which will make the transition to a more virtuous model accessible. We therefore ask you to further support this growing sector in order, in particular, to speed up research on the second and third generation of biofuels. I will also mention biogas, that is, methane of renewable origin. I would like to draw your attention, Mr. Secretary of State, to the fact that the first part of the finance bill taxes fossil gas, which is particularly polluting, and biogas injected in the same way. This identical tax is particularly inconsistent, since biogas reduces our emissions of air pollutants. During the discussions on LOM, we committed ourselves to achieving the goal of carbon neutrality in the land transport sector by 2050. Alternative fuels, such as synthetic fuels, green hydrogen or biogas, can help us achieve this goal by making the ecological transition accessible to all. It is important to do everything possible to support their development, which is also an opportunity to revive the economic activity of certain territories, since these fuels are intended to be produced in France. Finally, I would like to say a word about maritime affairs, whose budgetary stability I welcome. We note the Government's commitment to increase the 205 programme by €4.5 million with a view to strengthening support for the National Society for Rescue at Sea. This funding will enable SNSM to renew its fleet, which is at the end of its life. We thus send a strong signal in favour of the sustainability of his model. However, we will remain attentive to two outstanding issues: the maintenance of these appropriations after 2020, and their impact on the future maritime affairs budget, since it includes the management of rescue at sea. [[Barbara Pompili applauds]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for the Transport and Maritime Affairs appropriations of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u139	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u140	Is this budget up to the ecological transition? Will it allow us to take the necessary turn today to direct all our public spending in order to meet the inevitable demand to combat climate change? Is this budget, at last, up to your ambitions? These questions being asked by me, you suspect that my answer will probably be "no", while I imagine that you will answer me in choir "yes". These questions are all the more acute as you benefit from a favourable economic and financial situation: thanks to historically low interest rates, the state has saved 8 billion euros. In addition, there was an additional 2 billion at-source levies. To put it simply, the situation offers you margins: you finally have the means to direct spending a little more favorably to measures that can contribute to the fight against climate change. This is true in all areas, especially in transport. However, the High Climate Council considers that a large part of the actions undertaken and the arrangements put in place are not satisfactory. In addition, the comments of the Institute for Climate Economics, which indicate that if we set ourselves the goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, we will need to redouble our efforts over the next few years. It estimates that the cost of these efforts should be between EUR 16 and 17 billion each additional year, i.e. between EUR 7 and EUR 9 billion for public investment. You see, we're pretty far away from the account. You have certainly distributed to us a booklet for the ecological transition listing all the efforts you seem to have made to achieve the objective and the ambition of the ecological transition. As far as the field of transport is concerned, it says that from now on, no more than a cent will go to major projects, but that everything will be devoted to what you call "transport of the daily". But on this subject, as my colleagues have said, a report is waiting. As you know, Secretary of State: we are desperately looking for the Philizot report. She's almost an Arlesian. I remember a young Member of Parliament, MP Djebari, who, at the time of the debate on the law for a new railway pact, had tabled an amendment, which we had supported, calling for an assessment of the situation of all the country's small lines, in any case the subdenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u141	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u142	Why was it important? Because you have here, in the small lines, a serious, plausible alternative to the use of the car. Millions of French people now live around major cities or cities, and have no choice but to use their cars to go to work. However, when we look at the national map of small lines, we are surprised at the correspondence between the periphery of large cities and this network of lines that could be used wisely: we would strengthen the fight against climate change by making possible the use of these alternative modes of transport, more efficient and less greenhouse gas-generating. We are waiting for the Philizot report all the more impatiently because, at the time of the debate on the mobility policy bill – you probably remember, it's even more recent – several of us had intervened, as some of my colleagues have just done, to ask for the information needed to determine the amount of investment necessary for the survival of these small lines. I am thinking for example – Marie-Noëlle Battistel too, no doubt – of the Grenoble-Veynes-Gap line. But our colleagues certainly have many other examples in mind. We need to have the data on these lines in order to face up to the investments needed to revive the project. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] I would like to stress that, with the mobility guidance law, we have adopted provisions on investment planning. Tell me sincerely, Secretary of State: in this law of programming, investment by investment, what really corresponds to the transportation of everyday life? In the small lines, you have daily life. In important motorway or rail infrastructure, or even new high-speed lines, I am not sure that we are exactly in everyday life. That is why I urge you to finally have the report on small railway lines in order to allocate the appropriate investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u144	The bike plan is everyday!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u145	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u146	A month ago, the Government confirmed its financial commitment to the Seine-Nord Europe Canal. This commitment was to result in an amendment to the Finance Bill for 2020. That has been done, and I would like to welcome the vote on this amendment when we consider the first part of the PLF. Of course, I agree with my colleague Guy Bricout. I regret, of course, that, for a project of this magnitude, the vote took place in general indifference. But the most important thing is to know that this infrastructure will come into being in 2028. I would therefore like once again to welcome the will and determination of local and regional authorities, as well as those demonstrated by the European Union and the State, which respects its word. In the period of distrust of the politics that we are going through, this project is undoubtedly restoring confidence in the public word and hope for our northern territories. On the "Transport" side of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" which our Assembly is about to consider, the IUD Group, Action and Independents would like to acknowledge the progress that has been made in reviewing the mobility orientation bill that is coming to new reading in the Senate. For the first time, visibility is given on the transport budget, with the increase of the expenditure of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France. This programme will indeed benefit, as has been said, from an increase of 10 % in the assistance funds allocated to this agency to finance transport infrastructure. This is excellent news, because the discussions on the mobility policy bill have shown what investments are needed to maintain these infrastructures, which, as Aude Luquet said, need them well, and, of course, to develop cleaner mobilitys at the same time. However, I would like to nuance the table of increases in appropriations for transport, since these must be reconciled with certain measures voted on in the first part of the PLF. I am thinking in particular of the end of the exemption for non-road diesel – GNR. We will never repeat this enough: if we are convinced that we must go towards the decarbonisation of transport and act to achieve the ambitious objectives that France has set itself, this cannot be done brutally, nor to the detriment of our citizens. That is why we proposed, in the first part, an amendment aimed at smoothing further the abolition of the reduced rates of ICTPE for the GNR and allowing the sector time to adapt. That is why we defended, again in the first part of the PLF, strong measures to reduce VAT on daily transport. That is why, finally, our group welcomes the maintenance of the systems that work, such as the conversion bonus. When efficiency is proven, let's not change anything! It is indeed important to support the sectors and find alternative solutions, just as it is essential to make our citizens want to change their habits. Besides, an alternative solution, a win-win solution, there is one! Aude Luquet said earlier: these are biofuels. Whether it is for the air sector, the land sector or the maritime sector, they are a way in which, if we want to live up to the ecological, climatic and economic challenges, we need boldness, boldness and always daring! Unfortunately, no action is foreseen in this budget, despite the many amendments tabled to this effect by our group. The Transport component also concerns the recovery of the first part of SNCF's debt by the State. When we examined the bill for a new railway pact, our group had supported this resumption. It's an excellent decision. It is imperative, however, that such a situation should not happen again and that the debt should not re-establish, as I said in the Committee on Sustainable Development, a remake of the adventure of sapeur Camembert and the famous pile of sand. When I speak of SNCF, I too, inevitably, think of the fine services of the territory, these small lines, as they are called, which are nevertheless so important for our rural territories! To date, we do not know the conclusions of the Philizot report on the future of these lines, a report commissioned by our House. The budget should have been examined in the light of this state of affairs, as Christophe Bouillon said very well. You will agree, Mr. Secretary of State, that there is something to ask. I insist that abandoning these lines would only exacerbate the existing territorial divides. I will conclude with a few words on the Maritime Affairs program. During the discussions on the first part of the PLF, we were announced a €4.5 million increase in the appropriations for the 205 programme in order to strengthen support for the National Society for Rescue at Sea. This increase was expected, and while I listened carefully to my colleagues, we look forward to it on all the benches of the House. But, like the rapporteur for this programme, I stress the need to sustain this funding beyond 2020. I hope that the forthcoming discussion will be constructive. I don't doubt it. At the moment, I would like to highlight the good direction taken on the Transport and Maritime Affairs part of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u147	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u148	We have three thoughts in this budget. It allows, first of all, to respond to the concerns of everyday life. It's not bad already for a budget of the Ministry of Transport! Anyway, it's expected. But it's also, sometimes, a trompe l'oeil budget! And it's a pretty timid budget on big breakups. But there must be great ruptures. But we will not hide our satisfaction that this budget will address the major concerns of everyday life. I am thinking in particular of SNCF: for years we have dreamed of a financially balanced public enterprise, thanks to the recovery of the debt by the State. He had committed himself to this by the railway laws passed by the previous majorities, but he still had to keep his word. The State is taking over the SNCF's 30 billion debt. The public enterprise thus regaining balance, it is a good budget for SNCF. This is also good news for all French people, since this budget helps to strengthen the maintenance of the existing one rather than creating new lines, as so often in the past. In the rail sector, the priority need is the maintenance of daily transport. In this regard, would we like to maintain more material than we could for technical reasons? This budget confirms overall efforts for road infrastructure and canals. This corresponds to scenario 2 of the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, chaired by Philippe Duron, in which the priority given to the maintenance of infrastructure is accompanied by new investments, which have long been called for, to decongest urban centres or saturated places. This budget responds to everyday concerns and, if only for this reason, the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for it and I will vote with great pleasure. But we mustn't fool ourselves, it's also a trompe l'oeil budget. In fact, EUR 200 to 250 million is missing in the AFITF budget. While these credits are not needed in 2020, they will be essential to follow scenario 2. Moreover, the State does not systematically provide a counterpart to the efforts it requires from each other. Thus, in the case of SNCF, the State does not want to compensate for the approximately EUR 100 million corresponding to the new obligations it imposes on it. Investments in level crossing security – 130 million euros a year – are being gargarized, but we forget to say that only 80 million are paid by the State, leaving 50 million to the SNCF. Similarly, there is pride in accessibility efforts. However, out of the €45 million announced, only €30 million is financed by AFITF. As for social pricing, only half of their cost – 20 million euros per year – is borne by the State. The score is still EUR 100 million for a company with a net profit of EUR 20 million. Efforts therefore remain to be made. As for the active mobility fund and the bike plan, 50 million is spent on it – that's good – but at the same time the transport payment is stripped of 45 million euros. Finally, this budget is timid about the big breaks. If we want to detoxify ourselves from the thermal engine, develop mass public transport, or replace road transport with rail, we must use green taxation, heavy-duty taxes and double the premiums for electric vehicles. If we want to commit ourselves to major transport disruptions, we must devote great resources to this. This is not yet the case. But let us not spoil our pleasure, at least for everyday transportation, this budget responds to current concerns. The Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u149	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u150	I am pleased to present today the budget of the Ministry of Transport for the year 2020, which is intended to be the budget of the commitments made, both for everyday mobility and for medium- and long-term structural investments. Transport policy appropriations amounted to €9.8 billion, an increase of 6.3% over last year. This budget is part of a particular context. First of all, the episodes of autumn 2018 highlighted the importance of transport issues in the daily lives of our citizens and in the report they have, every day, to the territory and to our society. This budget therefore places structural investments and the maintenance of quality of service at the heart of our policy. It also puts the environmental issue at the centre of our public policy choices. All ministries, especially transport, face the societal and environmental challenge. More generally, we amplify the effort to maintain and operate networks, which are too often undersized. A €850 million allocation is thus allocated for the regeneration of the national road network. With regard to SNCF, the State spends EUR 2.2 billion on the rail network which we have to preserve but also to modernise – I am thinking here of the strengthening of safety on the level crossings which Mr Simian mentioned. Also introduced is a new programme to finance debt recovery at SNCF – €20 billion in 2020. This is the fulfilment of the State's commitments in order to enable the public railway group, which will have to face many challenges in the years to come, to redress its financial situation. The budget for 2020, which is rising sharply, reflects the commitments made under the mobility policy bill. The increase of 640 million euros compared to 2019 allows for, among other things, an increase to 2982 million euros in the budget of AFITF for next year to finance, on the one hand, an additional 80 million euros, the regeneration of existing road and river networks, and, on the other hand, the continuation of investments in the rolling stock of the balanced trains of the territory. The AFITF budget includes €22 million to start the acquisition market for the twenty-eight trainsets for the Paris-Clermont and Paris-Limoges-Toulouse lines. Sustainable mobility, which is a fundamental concern of the Government, finds concrete translations in this PLF. We want to triple cycling by 2024, a goal that we spend 350 million euros on over seven years. We also create the sustainable mobility package for employees using alternative modes of transport to the car. It is optional for companies, but I am proud that the state is applying it as early as 2020 for all its agents. The aid for combined transport, essential to accompany the modal carry-over and already included in the budget for 2019, is confirmed. It will be used for the Perpignan-Rungis train – I will have the opportunity to return, Mrs Obono. Let me now say a few words about our maritime transport policy, which has a budget of EUR 292 million. I would first like to welcome this year's commitment of the volunteers and personnel of the National Society for Rescue at Sea, who, at times at the cost of their lives, as sadly recalled by the shipwreck off the Sables d'Olonne, provide indispensable assistance to the State for the accomplishment of the rescue at sea. I confirm that my ministry will maintain at their 2019 level the means granted to this association. The State will continue its commitment to ports in 2020 by securing the necessary means for their proper maintenance, including dredging, and by continuing the plans for the development of the operations included in the State-region plan contracts. To limit the environmental footprint of maritime transport and improve air quality, several actions are being taken. France defends, for example, the project to create a zone for regulating air pollutant emissions in the Mediterranean, similar to the one already existing in the Channel and the North Sea. With regard to CO emissions, proposals such as reducing the speed of ships are supported in international forums. Finally, a maritime space planning approach has been launched to organize and coexist activities at sea and on coastlines while protecting the marine environment. Finally, I will mention the civil aviation component of the 2020 budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u151	What about the little lines?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u152	... which is structured around two main axes: first, the maintenance of a high level of security investment. Of the EUR 2.29 billion in DGAC's budget, a special effort is made on investments to ensure the provision of efficient services in line with the Europe Agreement for 2023-2024. Secondly, we seek to limit the environmental impacts of the aviation sector. It is from this perspective that government policy aims to promote the incorporation of biofuels into kerosene and to optimize direct trajectories to limit fuel consumption and noise nuisances. Always committed to preserving our public finances, we are continuing the DGAC's deleveraging process to bring it back to its 2005 level. I take the time I have left to answer your questions more directly. Mr. Benoît Simian, the "Aid for the Acquisition of Clean Vehicles" Trust Account is outlined in Program 174. The share of the bonus for the purchase of electric vehicles financed by the CAS is clearly identified. The traceability of the CAS is therefore well ensured in the budget documents. Mr Said Ahamada, hydrogen is indeed a way forward for ships. A commitment to green growth on hydrogen in maritime and river transport will be signed at the end of 2019. The Government is fully open to funding pilot projects. Mrs Valérie Beauvais, the big malus are reserved for very emitting vehicles. Medium-sized vehicles are generally subject to low malus. Half of the fleet of new vehicles is acquired by companies. In the fight against polluting vehicles, we therefore preserve the portfolio of modest households. With regard to the Philizot report, which many of you have mentioned...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u153	Did you bring it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u154	Is he ready?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u155	I am very comfortable because, when I was a rapporteur on the bill for a new railway pact, I had asked the Government to do so. As I said in committee, the preliminary draft report has been submitted to us, but I wanted the Prefect Philizot to continue discussions with the regions for the next month so that, at the end of November or the beginning of December, we would not have a report on the cost and state of the network – which is already very good – but an action plan validated by the regions. In this way, it will be operational and we will be able to offer the most innovative solutions – the light train, the hydrogen train. In some territories – I see Mrs Auconie and I am thinking of the Tours-Loches line, but there are many others – we will have the opportunity to propose solutions for the benefit of the population and adapted to traffic, which today is quite heterogeneous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u156	What about Rungis' train?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u157	Yes, I'm responding to Mrs. Obono. I recall the circumstances that led to the stop of the line Perpignan-Rungis, the train of the early ones: the deterioration of the railway offer had led the shippers to refer to the road. We have asked SNCF to restore the eighty cars – more than half have now been rehabilitated and are operational. We also developed a new service offer with a charterer, Novatrans, who spoke on the subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I answer your question in the question: why does the train leave Valenton and not Rungis? We looked for the appropriate setting for the train to return to service. As I recall, two thirds of the goods that had previously arrived in Rungis were immediately transhipped onto trucks to power the large distribution purchasing plants. At the same time, we are leading the modernization of the Rungis wharf, which will take a little longer, in order to provide a suitable framework for rail freight. We respond in the short term, to allow the resumption of traffic, and in the long term, to develop a rail freight solution from the two destinations of the goods.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u158	We come to the questions. Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u159	I'm suing Bénédicte Peyrol, who wanted to ask you two questions. The first concerns the development of environmentally-friendly tax expenditure. In the 2020 budget, the Government has taken several measures to promote fairer environmental taxation, by increasing the contribution of certain polluting sectors – road freight and aviation – and by strengthening certain incentive schemes – cars that are bad. However, several reports, requested by parliamentarians, on the green budgeting and the revision of the budgetary annexes have highlighted the weight of certain fiscal niches that are unfavourable to the climate – in the order of 13 to 15 billion euros, especially in transport. It seems to me essential, in the name of tax justice, to reduce this public support. Several amendments to this effect have been tabled by my colleagues in the first part of the PLF. What would then be your guidelines for ending or, at least, reforming these unfavourable tax expenditure in the field of transport, both at national and European level? The second question concerns the share of investments in the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", particularly in transport. Budget yellows indicate that low-carbon investments reached €13 billion in 2018 and increased sharply by 24% between 2016 and 2018. Thanks to the mobility law and the major investment plan, these investments are directed on the one hand towards the development of road and rail infrastructure and, on the other hand, towards low-carbon vehicles and gentle-moving modes. The most recent allocation and performance report on the equivalent obligation of the green treasury – OAT – with an outstanding amount of EUR 19 billion, also underlined the importance of these expenditures. However, investment needs remain very important in this sector in order to meet the different carbon budgets, mainly aimed at gradually replacing expenditures in thermal vehicles for the benefit of electric vehicles. So, Mr. Secretary of State, what is your understanding of public investment in ecological transition, in terms of carbon budgets from a general point of view and funding by the OAT in particular?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u160	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u161	I know your commitment on this subject, Mr Labaronne, as well as that of your colleague Bénédicte Peyrol, and thank you for your question. First of all, thanks to Mrs Peyrol's work, the budget documents have evolved. The yellow budget for the ecological transition is available and already incorporates the parliamentary work carried out over the last 18 months, while we have the report of the mission of the General Inspectorate of Finance on the green budget. In the coming months, we will have to make the perimeters of these two documents coincide. Expenditure which is considered to be environmentally friendly amounts to just over EUR 36 billion according to the Green Budget Report, compared to EUR 19 billion according to the yellow budget for the ecological transition. It is now a matter of bringing these two documents into line so that the PLF for 2021 takes full advantage of the consequences of these modernised budget documents; that it can offer an appropriate evaluation tool; and that it can, if not encourage the action of the State, at least determine the most favourable public policy levers for our collective action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u162	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u163	The Government has placed at the heart of its concerns the question of French mobility, particularly with regard to daily transport, as reflected in the draft mobility guidance law currently being adopted. This text, which you are very familiar with, Secretary of State, covers major reforms that have been requested for many years by all stakeholders. However, he has received numerous criticisms of the issue of financing, which has led to the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. The finance bill for the year 2020 must be an opportunity to respond to these criticisms by providing funds to meet our ambitions, if we do not want them to be revised downwards. I would therefore like to draw your attention, Mr Secretary of State, to the ceiling measure taken in Article 21 of the first part of the budget, which will result in a reduction in the funds received by the mobility organising authorities. It is true that every year transport payments enjoy a very good return, but setting such a ceiling in the very year of the examination and adoption of the mobility guidance law, during which we wanted to defend the interest of the implementation of public transport infrastructure and wanted to strengthen the organising authorities, is particularly difficult to hear. On a completely different subject, that of the regeneration of the French road network, of which we know that it has continued to deteriorate over the last seven years, going from the first world ranking in 2012 to the eighteenth in 2018, according to a ranking of the World Economic Forum, I would like, Mr. Secretary of State, to be able to explain to us what the PLF plans to carry out the entire maintenance and security of this network.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u164	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u165	With regard to Article 21, you recalled, Mr Millienne, that its provisions must be read in the overall balance, that the transport payment is very dynamic and that our intention is obviously not to penalise the means devoted to transport which the communities wish to implement. Therefore, in order to avoid any risk of misinterpretation, the Government is open to an adjustment of the text so that the communities can see the revenue from the transport payment or its compensation and thus protect themselves against a decline in resources between 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u167	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u168	My question is about urban mobility. As the mobility law is in place, we await the continuation of the State aid programme for public transport on a clean site, i.e. investments by local authorities in public transport, networks or the acquisition of new vehicles, through a fourth call for projects – the first three having resulted from the Grenelle of the environment and its aftermath. During the discussions on the mobility policy bill, the Government undertook to launch the bill, which was expected by the communities. So my question is simple: when will it start? What, moreover, will the amount of financial aid be, given that we hope that it will be slightly higher than the EUR 45 million of the compensation for Bercy's transport payment to local authorities? I would point out that a very strong commitment was made recently, while the transport payment was abolished for companies with between nine and eleven employees. Total compensation had to be provided, the State had promised, but we had barely returned, that this financial commitment was being resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u169	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u170	To concrete question, concrete answer, Mr Pancher. The fourth call for projects will be made in mid-2020 and will amount to around €450 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u171	Net?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u172	Yes, net, and in the volume of this call for projects. The deployment of funds will take place as projects mature, as is the practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u173	I call the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", listed in state B. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1246.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u174	The Government's amendment aims to increase the funds of the National Society for Rescue at Sea. The State has been financing SNSM's activities directly for several years to the tune of €6.2 million. In view of the challenges facing SNSM, the Government wishes, in agreement with the President of the Republic, to increase this effort, which we will increase to 10.7 million euros. Some of this additional €4.5 million will be redeployed since the 203 "Transport Infrastructure and Services" programme, while the rest will come from the general budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u176	We are beginning to consider this series of amendments in a good way by increasing the SNSM subsidy by EUR 4.5 million. A similar amendment, on the stamp duty paid by boaters, had been tabled during the public sitting of the first part of the PLF, under the benevolent eye of the Speaker of the National Assembly. The Government had now made the promise to increase the State subsidy to SNSM by €4.5 million. I would also point out that, from the first year of this legislature, the need to provide additional funding to SNSM has been taken into account, so a grant of €6 million – compared to €3.5 million before 2017 – has been sustained. I therefore thank the Government for fulfilling its promise through an amendment that should be unanimously accepted. The committee's opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u177	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u178	I commend the Government for this gesture, which President Ferrand has requested. I would also like to point out the commitment of our colleague Jimmy Pahun, who has been very active on this subject in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u179	I call Mr Benoit Simian, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 894.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u180	This amendment, tabled by Laurent Saint-Martin and which has received a favourable opinion from the Committee on Finance, aims to separate the appropriations from the mission 'Sustainable ecology, development and mobility' in order to isolate those relating to transport, which would be a simplification measure and therefore of common sense. In this way, we would not, as in the Chamber this evening, have two ministers present on the bench to represent the Government on this subject, but only one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u182	Mr. Simian, it would be a bit reductive to say that transport and sustainable development do not have a relationship with each other. So we are actually two on the bench, together with the Secretary of State for Transport, and we are succeeding – in a harmonious way, it seems to me – in this discussion. Because it is not possible to isolate the transport part – with the programme 203 "Transport infrastructure and services", the programme 205 "Maritime affairs" and the corresponding special affection account – and to maintain the mission unit, covering both ecology, transport, sustainable mobility and energy. This seems to me to be at a good balance, and I am expressing an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u183	Mrs Bérangère Abba, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u184	As the Secretary of State has just explained, it would seem very damaging to separate the transport aspect of this mission, because, as we know, they are intimately linked to issues of environmental impact, environmental health – with an impact on air quality – and dependence on fossil fuels. That is why we are making a transition from the fleet, which requires comprehensive treatment. Therefore, we do not think this amendment is appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u185	The next speaker is Mr. Benoit Simian, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u186	We had started well, Madam Secretary of State, with the credits of the SNSM. It is clear that transport and sustainable development are linked. The questions of mobility, and even more sustainable mobility, correspond to ecological credits. My amendment relates only to parliamentary cooking and budgetary mechanics, and it seems to me in the interests of everyone to separate this mission. Its current scope is due to the merger, in 2007, of the Ministry of Transport and Equipment and the Ministry of the Environment – it is important to make a little history. I therefore reiterate my support for this amendment supported in committee by Laurent Saint-Martin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u187	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 895.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u188	I am defending this amendment on behalf of the Committee on Finance. As Special Rapporteur, I have regretted for two years the insufficient readability of the appropriations of the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility". For example, if the credits for the Energy Check are located in Program 174 "Energy, Climate and Postmines", those supporting the services provided to the Energy Check recipients are included in Program 345 "Public Energy Service". Another example is that the compensation for public energy service charges is spread between the energy transition trust account and the 345 program. The Court of Auditors and Laurent Saint-Martin pointed to other difficulties. If the solutions we propose differ, the diagnosis is the same: it is necessary to have a model explaining clearly to the French how the budget is organised. My proposal is therefore to have two programmes: the first would be clearly social and territorial in nature, when the second would be dedicated to the energy transition. Within the programme with a social and territorial vocation, would be grouped the credits financing the non-interconnected areas, the energy check, the energy transition bonus, the conversion bonus, the ecological bonus, the national energy mediator, and the commitment to the closure of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant. As for the energy transition programme, it would bring together all energy expenditure contributing to this transition, such as support for cogeneration and renewable energy. We would thus launch the debate on the readability of credits on ecology, which we have been talking about for the past two years, without having made any progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u190	We too want the content of budgetary programmes to be as clear and simple as possible. That is why we have made a number of changes this year, taking into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. It seems to me that the new architecture of the 174 program is in line with what you want: from 2020, all expenses relating to the electric bonus and the energy check will be charged to this program. The 174 and 345 programmes thus restructured will finance comprehensive and coherent public policies: the 174 programme will be devoted to the social support of the energy transition and will include all the support schemes for people; The 345 programme will now be dedicated, at more than 95%, to tariff equalization and compensation of operators for cogeneration support schemes. Your amendment is therefore quite largely satisfied. I suggest you take it off. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u191	I see you still standing, Mr. Special Rapporteur. I imagine you want to answer Mrs. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u192	[[Smiles and exclamations on several benches]] I always answer, Mr. President. Die, but stand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u193	Not now, Mr. Special Rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u194	I was talking about the death of the amendment; You understood that, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome your comments, Madam Secretary of State. So far, I have not noticed any evolution of the model. You're telling me it's going to be changed. If this is not fully done, the Special Rapporteur will raise this point and remind you of it, because that is his role.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u195	He'll be right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u196	On the other hand, I do not think I have the opportunity to withdraw the amendment from the Committee on Finance?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u197	Yes, you can!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u198	Yes, yes, Mr. Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u199	[["Ah! » and applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am therefore making use of my exorbitant prerogatives: I withdraw it, to show that the opposition is constructive and because it pleases the Government. For once, I trust the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u200	Thank you, Mr. Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u201	I call Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur, to support Amendment No. 1179.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u202	[[Smile]] It is not practical to sit on the panel of committees... We are a rift of rapporteurs and we are looking at this mission in two stages, which shows that some appropriations should not be collected. Let me begin by asking you a question, Madam Secretary of State, because there is indeed a problem of the readability of these budgets. Perhaps you have seen articles in the press expressing their disagreement about a particular budget line. In your reply to me earlier, you indicated that the ecological budget would amount to €32 billion. For my part, I see in the documents provided by Bercy an amount of $11.64 billion for the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". In addition, you indicated that the budget would increase by 832 million. However, if I stick to Bercy's figures, the general budget appropriations allocated to the mission will increase from 11.52 billion to 11.64 billion, making an increase of just over 100 million. It is therefore very complicated to see clearly... Bercy announcing an increase of 100 million, you'll tell me what you put in your 832 million. You told me that this did not include SNCF's debt – 409 million – or aid for the acquisition of clean vehicles – 395 million. Do you confirm that? You also indicated that the allocated tax provisions would increase by 730 million, of which 504 will be destined for AFITF. In any event, all of this has nothing to do with the precise scope of the Ministry of Ecology. You'll give me your numbers, because we still don't see it clearly. My amendment is in line with the previous one. It aims to distinguish what was regrouped in 2017 – it doesn't go back several decades, so we can now see a mistake. It is necessary to separate what is the responsibility of the "Territories Cohesion" mission and what is the responsibility of the "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" mission. I must make it clear that the Committee on Finance is against my amendment. For my part, I am of course in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u203	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u204	The amendment seeks to split the appropriations under Title 2 of the Ministries of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and Cohesion of the Territories into two, creating a separate programme for the appropriations under the latter. I am not in favour of this, for reasons of substance and management. The two ministerial departments in question are supported by joint administrations. This is the case for the General Secretariat and a number of Directorates of Central Administration; This is especially true of deconcentrated services, since the DREAL and the departmental directorates of the territories – DDT – work for both ministries; They have no reason to distinguish, in their actions, what is apparent from each other. For reasons of mutualisation, joint work and coherence of public policies, I am not in favour of your amendment. The policies of the city, housing and spatial planning are, of course, very similar to those of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". As far as numbers are concerned, everything depends on the focal point. The sum of current appropriations allocated to the various programmes of the mission that finance public policies amounts to EUR 13,274 billion. In addition to pension programs, trust accounts, ancillary budgets and pilotable taxes, a gross total of $35.5 billion is achieved. By subtracting debt-related and non-pilotable expenditures – for example, SNCF debt – from this total, a retired amount of $32 billion is obtained. An exchange of tables would be very useful; I fully agree that we should share our figures, Mr Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u205	The next speaker is Mr. Éric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u206	With regard to the amendment, I hear your argument about deconcentrated services. However, in order to deal with the Lubrizol case, the two directorates concerned are working not only together, but also in close contact with the Prefect, who represents the Ministry of the Interior. The fact that directorates are meant to work together does not justify the compilation of two budgets from an accounting point of view. In any case, it is difficult to see clearly. We will indeed compare our figures, Madam Secretary of State. If I look at the ones Bercy provided, I don't see the 13 billions and whatever you're talking about. At this stage, I note that the general budget appropriations allocated to the green transition mission amount to $11.64 billion. So I still don't understand the numbers you announced, and I'm not the only one, if I believe a long article published by Libération on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u207	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 95, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u208	This is an appeal amendment. Within the limits of our budget allocation exercise, it aims to achieve more quickly the doubling of the envelope allocated to the heat fund managed by ADEME. I had already put forward a proposal to this effect as draftsman of the appropriations for the 181 "Risk prevention" programme during the consideration of the 2018 finance bill. In any case, I welcome the fact that the funds allocated to the heat fund are increasing to EUR 350 million. For several years, this fund has proved its effectiveness. It needs to be strengthened to strengthen projects and make the renewable heat sector more attractive. We must also ask ourselves, Madam Secretary of State, about the large number of abandoned projects along the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u210	The committee did not consider this amendment. Personally, I share the view that the necessary funds must be made available now to double the heat fund. You are right, Mr Brun, there are uncertainties about ADEME's ability to provide the same level of funding in the years to come. It should be noted that the Agency's budget appropriations have been declining for the past two years, as well as its staff, while it plays a fundamental role in ecological transition. Beyond the question of its financing, ADEME is faced with a fundamental problem, about which I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State: the number of projects committed with ADEME but abandoned by the project promoters remains very high; the contracts concerned amounted to around EUR 150 million per year in 2018 and 2019, compared to 60 to 70 million planned. This is a very serious loss. Again, delays are accumulating. What do we do to catch them? As you yourself have agreed, Mr. Brun, this is an appeal amendment. For my part, I cannot give my consent to the levy of EUR 200 million on the action "Human resources policy and training". Of course, article 40 of the Constitution obliges us to such gymnastics... I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I shall give an unfavorable opinion, even if, on the merits, I am in favour of an abundance of ADEME's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u212	I believe that this is indeed an appeal amendment. The Government could not support it, if only because of the pledge: it was not possible to raise $200 million from the Ministry's operating appropriations, particularly from its staff appropriations. In addition, ADEME's grant will amount to 595 million, which is quite comparable to the amount that was included in the 2019 Finance Act and is nearly one third higher than that granted in 2017 and earlier, since ADEME received only 449 million at the time, corresponding to the allocation of a share of the proceeds of the general tax on polluting activities. As I mentioned earlier, this grant will allow for an increase in commitments on the heat fund: 259 million had been committed in 2018; 289 million were programmed in 2019; the amount planned for 2020 is 350 million. It should be noted that ADEME's financial situation has improved: its working capital is expected to reach 230 million, which is expected to reach 350 million commitments on the heat fund in 2020 without difficulty. I share your view: we must also work on projects and ensure that they succeed. There's probably two leads. The first is to technically facilitate projects, hence the work I have initiated on technical measures relating to renewable heat and cold networks; It should speed up projects in this area. Secondly, there is the question of the economic balance of these projects. At present, as oil prices are low, it is more difficult to balance them. The amount of grants per project may need to be increased slightly. We are ready to work on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u213	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u214	We welcome with great satisfaction the increase in the credits allocated to the heat fund managed by the ADEME, but let us not tell a story: it is clearly insufficient! You are implying, Madam Secretary of State, that we are not rushing into projects. However, the number of projects relating to methanization units is exploding and, in the absence of the necessary funding, the queue is growing, as we know, in all the territories. At a minimum, the funds from the heat fund should be doubled or even tripled. I certainly see that they are increasing slightly... Let us agree that the promise of the President of the Republic is fulfilled, but with great slowness, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u215	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u216	This appeal amendment had not been considered by the Finance Committee, since it had been found inadmissible because of a drafting problem. The challenge was to generate debate and clarification about the heat fund. I would like to stress that the increase in these appropriations must continue. On the ground, that has been said very well, there are pending cases, because of the lack of funds, but also the cases abandoned along the way, due in particular to administrative complexity. Again, the Ottoman garrote must be loosened from the norm. Progress in this area is important in order to ensure that each of the projects presented on the ground are funded. The price of fossil fuels being what it is, we must in particular make the financing of these projects more attractive, so that they are carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u217	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u218	That's a good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u219	We'll support him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u220	I come back to the issue of energy renovation of housing. We have been very late in this area since the Grenelle de l'Environnement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u221	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u222	And this will continue!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u223	This delay dates back more than ten years. Today, not 500,000 efficient energy renovations per year should be carried out, but 600,000 or 700000.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u224	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u225	This is also an appeal amendment, with LOLF rules obliging us to provide sometimes delusional wages... He raised the question of how to finance the new energy renovation premium, which would replace the energy transition tax credit for the most modest households – those in the first, second, third and fourth deciles. Will we achieve in 2020, thanks to this and other measures planned, the right pace in terms of efficient energy renovations? This is a real question, which must be the subject of a dialogue. What happens if the device works well? Some have expressed earlier their hope that the new bonus will not be a success! For my part, of course, I hope the opposite is true. What happens if the amount of aid requested exceeds the EUR 450 million we are about to vote on, part of the amount from the ecological appropriations, and the other part from the regional planning appropriations? That's a real question. Previously, we had the tax credit. The 2019 Finance Bill had allocated him a budget of 900000 euros. It is expected to reach 1.1 billion. The envelope for energy transition allowances for buildings should not be exhausted after six or eight months of exercise and the pace of work should then slow down. Some departments have experienced this situation, with ANAH credits being exhausted as early as October or early November. On the other hand, Madam Secretary of State, is the extension of the premium to landlords still under consideration for 2021, or have you already taken a decision on this subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u227	When the budget is insufficient, an amending finance law is passed; The government will talk about it better than I do. Your amendment aims to abound €200 million in funding for the energy transition premium. The committee has rejected this amendment and the opinion is therefore unfavourable. I myself am also unfavorable; I explained that this premium looked like a Rubik's Cube: 192 different cases are likely to occur. The Secretary of State herself acknowledged the complexity of the device, as it will require the assistance of a computer to perform simulations. However, not all French people have access to a computer or the Internet. I do not hope that the premium works badly, but I fear that this will be the case, because of the complexity of the premium, and therefore because of the necessary appropriation time. We therefore express an opinion against the increase in appropriations which are likely not to be used. In this, my calculation is different from yours. In any event, if I were wrong, the use of the law of amending finance would remain possible: we would have a chance at scratching and a chance at drawing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u228	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr. Aubert. I'm reassured to see that you sit down while you're still alive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u229	[[Smile]] It's because I belong to the judiciary sitting, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u231	We know that we have a battle to wage for the energy renovation of housing. It concerns aid, but also access to information and support, as well as the improvement of the supply of artisans. We are working on these three dimensions. As far as aid is concerned, we have a tax credit representing 30% of the expenditure, whatever its nature, and one and a half years after the renovation. We will have a premium linked to the resources of the beneficiaries and the type of work. We are improving support and information, investing heavily in energy information spaces, in reception points and in providing simpler and more readable information, in particular through the establishment of a national system and assistance for those who need it. Finally, we have undertaken a great deal of work in connection with the artisans, in order to develop the RGE label – recognised as a guarantor of the environment – and the offer in general. Of course, the Government hopes that this premium will find its audience, especially among modest households. A few tens of thousands of them have access to ANAH aid; I hope that hundreds of thousands of them will be able to claim this bonus. The Government will ensure that its commitments are met next year, according to this scale, on the basis of the consumption of credits. I am therefore, at this stage of the parliamentary debate, against the amendment. As far as landlords are concerned, I would like to open up access to this system to them in 2021, but this will be the subject of the 2021 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u232	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u233	It would be interesting for us to have access to information about landlord donors in the coming weeks or months: it is not necessary to wait for the finance bill by 2021. I believe that we share the wish to see the success of this bonus; However, I think it would be useful to carry out quarterly reviews, or at least a mid-year review, of the number of renovations made thanks to it, and their performance. This would make it possible not to face the same difficulties encountered over the last ten years in steering the energy renovation of housing, which was insufficiently covered. At this point, I withdraw the amendment, and thank you for this exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u234	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-04-O1053.u235	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020: Continued review of the mission's credits "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". The meeting is adjourned.
