ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u1	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u2	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u3	Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the results of the European elections are a strong message, with fears for tomorrow and observations for today. Closures of tax services and district police stations, always uncertain replacements of teachers absent, exhaustion and demotivation of care teams, consolidations of public services in a commune requiring to take the bus or train in a station where there are only automatons... In France, however, public services are essential to our collective life. In many territories, they disappear, particularly affecting the most vulnerable or remote populations. Today, trade union organizations are demonstrating before the National Assembly against the bill to transform the civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u4	Excellent bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u5	With this legislation, the Government intends to reduce the number of public officials by 120,000, without any assessment of the impact that this measure will have on users and services. The text is based on the assumption that the public service is expensive and that cheaper contractors should be recruited. Several provisions are very critical. The abolition of Joint Administrative Committees will reduce the contradictory nature of decisions taken against staff. The establishment of project CSDs, the number of which will not be capped in relation to permanent jobs, will lead to precarization and decrease the guarantees of the skills of the agents. In the area of ethics, there is no mandatory time frame for limiting returns between the senior civil service and large private companies. Another reform was possible. We could have reinvented the competitions and strengthened the training of the agents. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] My question is simple: while our fellow citizens have expressed their fears that they will abandon the place where they live and face increasing expenditure, do you intend to act on the substance, not by declarations, but by concrete measures?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u6	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u7	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Madam Member, I am sorry that today you are about to vote against a reform that you voted yesterday and that the local elected representatives will apply tomorrow. You would have voted yesterday because it includes the necessary flexibility measures, which will enable the administration to adapt to the needs of users and to the evolution of the territories. You would have voted for it because it grants new rights to agents, in the context of a strengthened social dialogue, focusing on the most qualitative, essential and collective issues. You would have voted for it because it will make it easier for all staff to have access to mobility, to a second professional career with the possibility of reclassification, and to training, especially for the most fragile staff, those whose initial training is the least important and who encounter difficulties related to professional wear and tear. You would also have voted for it, and certainly with pleasure, because it creates, at the initiative of this majority, a precarious premium for agents who complete a contract of less than or equal to one year. You would have voted for it at last, and you said it in the Chamber, because it strengthens the ethical framework and transparency, also at the initiative of the majority who wanted to go further than the law that we voted together in 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u8	Once again, therefore, we have not understood anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u9	This reform is expected by the agents, by the employers and, above all, by the users. At the beginning of your question, you stressed the need for accessibility and continuity of public service. However, the tools contained in this bill will help achieve this objective and ensure the presence of public service throughout the country. While public officials sometimes feel that they are being subjected to a form of professional house arrest, they will have the opportunity to consider their retraining, retraining and new perspectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u10	In that case, why are they demonstrating?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u11	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] You have a few minutes to change your mind, MP. But I am convinced that, deep down, you are committed to this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u12	[[Exclaims on various benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to reduce the level of hustle and bustle, or to continue your conversations outside the Chamber. It'll be better for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u13	There's no one left!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u14	Mr Gilles Le Gendre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u15	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, for twenty years Europe has been deprived of ambition, vision and incarnation. Originally, the European dream had to be obvious: to preserve peace, so dearly acquired. Today, Europeans have imposed their dream as a necessity: to save the planet, so seriously threatened. [[Exclaims among non-registered Members of Parliament]] It's not everyone's dream. With their push in the ballot box, the national-populist parties will continue what they have always done: try to block Europe and hope to destroy it. They boast of having taken the light; They will never be but the shadow of our continent. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Rires among non-attached MPs]] The light, still fragile, is now carried by all those who have proposed to our fellow citizens to share an ecological ambition – parties whose exclusive object is or candidates who have made it a central axis of their programme, like the Renaissance list led by Nathalie Loiseau, to whom I address, on behalf of our group La République en marche, a friendly greeting. In reality, the ecological dream is not a dream. He's not, either, a coincidence. To combat climate change, protect biodiversity, invest in new sectors, support the transition for the most fragile, pilot the release of pesticides or the end of plastics, there is only one relevant scale: Europe! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But Europe is now moving too slowly. We trust our representatives in Strasbourg to be ardent activists of the ecological cause. But there's an emergency. For the past two years, France has done a lot. The Group of the Republic on the move believes that we must go faster, aim higher, reform deeper. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Prime Minister, what assurances can you give us that France will be on the front line to promote the new European dream?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u16	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM Group stand up and applaud at length. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u17	Let him talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u18	Poulidor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u19	This is the first time we've applauded a second!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, Mr Le Gendre, for your question, which allows me, since you are referring to the European elections, to begin by congratulating all the French Members who will be sitting in Strasbourg – all those who were elected on Sunday, after our country voted massively and made the choice to vote in the ballot box on the future it intended to give itself, which is proof of the vitality of our democracy. Once again, I would like to thank and congratulate all the Members who have been elected, and of course, first and foremost those who have been on the list led by Mrs Nathalie Loiseau. You're asking me if we'll be at the emergency meeting. The answer is simple: we have no choice. We have no choice but to be there, and it is because we have this conviction that we think we will be – that we must be! – in line with the call made by many of our fellow citizens – and by our fellow Europeans, because there is a European citizenship – in particular many of our youngest citizens, some of whom voted for the first time in these European elections and who told us of their commitment, concern and willingness to act on environmental issues. This determination to be at the moment of urgency, we affirmed very early, with the adoption of the climate plan and the biodiversity plan, with the adoption by this assembly of the hydrocarbon law of December 2017, with the firm commitments we made on the closure of two Fessenheim reactors by 2020,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u21	Punitive ecology!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u22	... with the EGALIM law, which comes from the general states of agriculture, which intends to set a very ambitious objective in the field of organic agriculture – we want to increase the area cultivated in organic form to 15% of the surface area by 2002, compared to 5% today – and with the biodiversity plan, which I mentioned myself. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] The truth, Mr Le Gendre, is that this ecological transition, of which we know the urgency and to which we have, through texts and objectives, reminded that we were committed, is committed. Thus, according to Yale University, which takes an independent and totally disconnected view of national or European policy, France is, on an international scale, the second country in terms of the effectiveness of public policies carried out to accompany the ecological transition. At European level, NGOs say in Brussels – even if they do not always say so elsewhere – that France is the third country in the European Union in terms of the ambition and effectiveness of the measures taken to guarantee and support this ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u23	This is the environmental Grenelle, not you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u24	This transition is therefore well accompanied, but we need to go further – we are fully aware of it. Further on, thanks to a renewed governance that allows us to better take into account all the issues related to the ecological transition in the decisions we make. It is the meaning of the ecological defence council set up around the President of the Republic last week and of the citizens' conference that will be organised under the auspices and under the leadership of the Minister of State for the ecological and solidarity transition. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] That is also why we want to work on alliances at European level. Indeed, Mr Le Gendre, you are right to say that the right scale is Europe – and even beyond Europe. If we want to weigh and print our mark, if we want to be, as you say, at the moment of urgency, we must be very present on these subjects at European level. This is the meaning of the commitments of the President of the Republic, of the Government, of a very large number of French Members of Parliament who will sit in Strasbourg and, I believe, of a large majority of Members of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u25	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u26	Mr Minister of Economy, my question concerns the proposed merger between Renault and Fiat Chrysler. This merger has, of course, seductive aspects: how do you not want to create the world number one – given the alliance with Nissan? There is also a clear picture of the geographical complementarity that this alliance could have. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Unfortunately, we have enough to be splintered by the M & A policy dear to President Macron. Today I am thinking of the former employees of Belfort, now GE – General Electric: what was a "marriage between equals" turns into a social fiasco, since in three years we have moved from the promise to create 1000 jobs to a social plan of 1000 jobs. The President of the Republic can, moreover, thank his former collaborator, Mr Hugues Bellay, for having waited the day after the European elections to make this announcement. In all circumstances, even when a merger has an industrial sense – and perhaps this is the case here – there is always a reverse of the medal, which is a triptych: downsizing, pressure on wages and pressure on the prices of subcontractors. [[Claims on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This merger already raises very concrete questions. First, the head office of the new set will be in the Netherlands, to escape French taxation. Is that acceptable?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u27	Tax fraud!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u28	We are already talking about the removal of 20% of the number of production platforms. Renault is 50,000 jobs in France: how do you intend to protect French industrial sites? In the new set, the share of the State will be reduced from 15 per cent to 7.5 per cent. The reference shareholder will therefore be the Agnelli family, with 15%: there will be a number one and a number two. One imagines what, in the long run, this marriage will be between equals without a pact of fiercely negotiated shareholders. I repeat, this perspective has seductive aspects, but you cannot, Minister, content yourself with the eternal language elements of the communicators on the creation of champions, marriages between equals and pseudo-guarantees of employment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Netherlands gave us a fine lesson, a few weeks ago, by showing us that a tax-free country could show voluntarism by raising Air France's capital. How far is the Government ready to go to guarantee the safeguarding of Renault's industrial jobs in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u29	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u30	And from selling to cutting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u31	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, if you knew your economics, you would know that the announcements made by GE this morning have absolutely nothing to do with Emmanuel Macron's decision in 2015, because the gas turbine activities concerned have been the property of General Electric since 1999.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u32	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u33	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But, obviously, the economy and liberalism are not your strong, nor that of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u34	2.4% at the right-hand primary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u35	Stay humble!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u36	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] With regard to the proposed merger between Renault and Fiat Chrysler,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u37	[[Same movements]] Calm down, please! [[Same movements]] Please continue, Minister. Colleagues, please let the minister answer Mr Marleix!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u38	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Republicans, you can continue to talk about results of the past that concern only me, but you have had current results that concern you collectively and that should invite you to a little more modesty and return to yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u39	The pay of the treachery!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u40	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group. – Noise]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Long protests on the benches of the LR group]] I leave you to your family feuds and return to the merger project between Renault and Fiat. We have considerable technological challenges in the automotive industry...... but since, obviously, you have exhausted your time to yell at me, I will wait for the next question on the subject to answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u41	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u42	Madam Minister of Sport, your recent statements on the possible legalization of the MMA – mixed martial arts – have provoked a great deal of emotion, well beyond the many practitioners of combat sports or martial arts, all respecting a number of fundamental values, including that of human dignity. The MMA, in other words mixed martial arts or free combat, is practiced in an octagonal cage where all or almost all blows are allowed. The winner is designated by K-O, abandonment or injury and, perhaps one day, by live death on television! Help, gladiators are back! In France, fortunately, this kind of competition, if I may say so, is not allowed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u43	It's gonna be!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u44	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] For many, the MMA embodies above all a kind of bad entertainment, the main purpose of which is to generate a lot of money for the channels involved. What is the MMA's educational message, when the law of the strongest prevails at the cost of blood? Can we accept everything, on the pretext that this practice would develop? Should we make legal what is potentially dangerous and diffuse, especially among the younger ones, a degrading image of the human being, even to the point of trivializing extreme violence, even to the point where it is an example of success? [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] The MMA was launched in the United States, a country of innovation where unfortunately the best meets the worst. Over time, the MMA has established a network of influence on European territory. However, as early as 1999, the Council of Europe made clear recommendations on the need to ban such fighting and denounced this violence. The MODEM and related groups are also strongly opposed. So, Madam Minister, do you really intend to ask a sports federation to take the MMA under its tutelage and thus highlight a practice that goes away from my definition of our civilization?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u45	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u46	Thank you, Madam Member, for your question, which expresses a number of real and shared fears: know that I am aware of this. It also allows me to inform the national representation about the reality of the MMA in France. First of all, a few explanations about mixed martial arts: this discipline brings together combat techniques that are used in boxing, judo, fighting or kick-boxing, among others. The alternation of these techniques in a fight reduces the targeted impact of a gesture that targets only one part of the body, and thus reduces the danger. MMA is a growing discipline: it attracts more and more young people, especially very young children, and women, because it offers freedom of practice...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u47	The freedom to burst the skull!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u48	... and a playful character in the learning phase, in a less codified framework and in this multidisciplinary approach that I have just described. It is a discipline that actors want to evolve and have already evolved: they have adapted the rules according to the level of practice and the different audiences. They are prepared to change these rules by taking into account our requirements for the safety of practitioners, the qualifications of educators and referees, in the framework of competitions and in the structuring of clubs, in order to establish a training and performance project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u49	And secularism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u50	In addition, we will give the federation which will host this discipline the means to negotiate, with the MMA's commercial actors, the image conveyed by this sport in France, the way to organize the fights and to respect the concussion protocols, as well as the questions of financial redistribution to the training clubs of the various combat sports. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This approach to the legalization of amateur and professional competitions in France is based on the report produced in 2016 by your parliamentary colleagues Patrick Vignal and Jacques Grosperrin, as well as on the report written by Patrick Wincke, at the end of 2018, which received the support of combat sports. We are working with my ministry and all the actors – sportsmen, amateur practitioners and federations involved – to build a call for expressions of interest that I will officially launch at the end of June.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u51	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u52	Minister for National Education and Youth, the school must constantly evolve to meet the new challenges posed by a constantly changing society. It is both a mirror of our society's problems and a part of the solution. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, educational policies have been at the heart of the government project you are implementing. You wanted to make primary school the top priority in education, and I can only share your goal of getting all students to know how to read, write and count at the end of CE1: this is the condition that they can succeed in school and emancipate. Investing in primary school is primarily about combating destinies and social reproduction. The policy you are conducting, with the support of our majority, has already made it possible to bring concrete solutions to these problems, so that each child has the means to succeed: the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 into a priority education network; 1 euro canteen as well as free breakfasts in schools in neighbourhoods in difficulty, so that no child can be prevented from learning by hunger; Not to mention the lowering of education to 3 years and the reform of teacher training of the bill for a school of trust, currently in the parliamentary shuttle. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, following the great national debate, the President of the Republic has announced new measures that are in line with and reinforce the actions already undertaken: the duplication of the major sections in priority education; the limitation to 24 pupils in the main section, CP and CE1 classes outside priority education; the creation of at least 2000 teaching posts in primary school each year; the mayor's necessary agreement for any school closure. Minister, could you please inform us about the practical implementation of these ambitious new measures for our school?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u53	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u54	Madam Member, you are right: a school policy is also a social policy, and social inequalities can be combated through a school policy. This is the meaning of the commitments made by the President of the Republic at his press conference following the major debate. The three main categories of measures he has announced are essential. The first step is never to close a primary school again without the mayor's consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u55	It's already in the law! It's in the code of education!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u56	We have therefore begun to implement this measure by reconnecting with all the mayors concerned to ascertain their views on the planned closures. We are in the process of returning to closures and there will be no more closures in subsequent re-entrys, unless the mayor expressly wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u57	It's already in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u58	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is a major and unprecedented point, which must ring the time of the school's reconquest of our territories. Second fundamental element in the commitments of the President of the Republic: the limitation of all classes in France of major section, CP and EC1 to twenty-four pupils, regardless of the territory: it is the recognition by the Government that the rate of supervision is important, especially in the first years of life, in improving the quality of learning; This goes hand in hand with educational policies. This policy will be implemented in the next three re-entrys, with a few departments starting this limitation to 24 students. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on some benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, third measure: the duplication of the main sections of REP and REP+ in order to limit the classes to twelve pupils, as in CP and CE1 of REP and REP+. Here too, it is a qualitative policy that takes into account our assessments of CP and EC1: they show that we are fighting inequality. But these are evident from the beginning of the CP: we must therefore act from kindergarten. It is also the meaning of the law for the school of trust which, with the compulsory education at the age of three, adopted unanimously by the Senate, in its article 2, emphasizes the nursery school for this new year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u59	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u60	My question is for the Prime Minister. I would like to associate my colleague Ian Boucard. This Tuesday, May 28, is a black day for General Electric employees, it is a black day for all the inhabitants of the territory of Belfort. This morning, General Electric's management announced the elimination of 1,000 jobs at the Belfort and Bourogne sites. We denounced the postponement of this announcement, which should have taken place before the European elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u61	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u62	This social plan therefore covers 25% of the workforce of the largest industrial site in General Electric and 50% of the employees of the gas industry. With indirect jobs, more than 3000 jobs are at risk. It's a whole department that's hit. For months, your government, the President of the Republic, has assured us of their support in finding ways to diversify. Aeronautics, great carenage for nuclear power plants, hydrogen, so many open sites which, to date, do not lead to anything. In 2015, the announcement of General Electric's acquisition of Alstom provided for the creation of 1000 additional jobs. The minister of the economy of the time had come to Belfort to tell us these words: "Belfort has an industrial future, your activity has strategic importance for France and will therefore be defended" before adding: "you can count on me. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u63	Thank you Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u64	This minister of the economy was called Emmanuel Macron. You will understand, Prime Minister, that General Electric's employees can no longer be content with words. They want action. Employees, trade union representatives, elected representatives and all the inhabitants of the territory of Belfort are ready to fight not to draw a line over 140 years of industry in the territory of Belfort. So my question is simple, Prime Minister: are you ready to fight with us too?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u65	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u66	My answer is yes, sir. We are ready to fight alongside you, alongside MP Ian Boucard, the mayor of Belfort, all the elected officials I received a few weeks ago, GE employees to guarantee the industrial future of GE's site. It's a hard blow for Belfort, of course. It came from the collapse of the gas turbine controls. I recall that ten years ago, GE Belfort produced 100 gas turbines and produced 29 gas turbines in 2018 due to the collapse of the market for these turbines. Perhaps in a few decades, starting in 2040, when we have to make the transition with coal, we will find prospects for orders, but this is not the case today. It is therefore necessary to face this announcement, to accompany the employees, to be at their side: we will be so and we will guarantee an industrial future for the site.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u67	Piss off!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u68	First, we will ensure that each employee receives personalized support. We will ensure that some people can find a place at Alstom, in the construction of the future TGV, because the TGV orders of the future, which meet our desire to give industrial prospects in Belfort, must allow a few dozen employees to return to business. Secondly, I hope that the vast majority of the EUR 50 million of the revitalization fund will benefit Belfort. Of the three orientations you have outlined, aeronautics is the most promising. I believe in projects to develop aviation activities on GE Belfort's site and we will work together on them. The second is the big carenage and dismantling of nuclear power plants. Here too there are interesting industrial prospects. I mean, there's hydrogen. The mayor of Belfort has invested a lot, like yourself, in this field of the future, especially on the possibilities of testing. We will accompany this industry so that it can develop on the site. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will be at your side and I am ready to receive you in the coming days to check that all this is actually being put in place. We guarantee the industrial future of Belfort.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u69	Mrs Severine Gipson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u70	My question is to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. I would like to associate my colleague Martine Leguille-Balloy. A few days ago, in my constituency of Eure, anti-specist activists entered a turkey farm. This intrusion wasn't the first. Already in December 2018, the farm had been visited, leaving a feeling of insecurity among farmers in my territory. But this time, the militants' intrusion has seen a dramatic turn for the breeder, and for the animals. In fact, the individuals who sought to take the animals out of their place of life caused a panic movement in the poultry, resulting in the death of 1500 of them. Beyond the tragedy that this represents for animals, these actions of anti-specist members will have economic repercussions but above all they have moral consequences for the breeder who suffered this damage and for the neighbouring breeders, who no longer feel protected and fear for the safety of their animals and their farms. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Craftsmen butchers, artisans charcutiers and now breeders, what other trades will be the target of these activists? So that this will not happen again, what appropriate and necessary measures do you intend to take to protect and reassure workers in the agricultural world of Eure, who, sensitive to animal welfare, are models in terms of exploitation at the global level? How do you intend to protect the farms concerned and respectful of the living conditions of their animals? How can we protect economically the farms which are victims of this type of action, which in the long run risk endangering sectors, farmers and families?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u71	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the UDI-Agir, SOC and GDR groups]] The question you are asking is very important. Today's enough! There are enough of these intrusions of individuals who come to bother the professionals of agriculture! There's enough of not respecting the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u73	Well, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u74	What's the Home Secretary doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u75	There's enough to come and attack the work tools! No other profession would support it! A few days ago I went to the Saint Quentin market in Paris to support a butcher who was attacked. He's got false blood spilled on his face! All his meat must have been thrown away! It's no longer possible! [[Exclaims and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is even less possible when these actions are backed, even physically, by an elected member of the Republic! It's not possible for things to happen like this! The Government is aware of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u76	It's more than time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u77	We need to care about animal welfare. Much has been done at the level of slaughterhouses, farms, for biosecurity. Yes, animal welfare is essential, but the welfare of the breeders is also essential, and I want to reaffirm it here. The guard of the seals has asked all prosecutors of the Republic to show the utmost firmness vis-à-vis those who attack the butchers and those who enter the farms. We look at this very closely. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the UDI-Agir, SOC and GDR groups]] The breeding is in trouble. Farming is a profession that requires a lot of strength and it is not possible for people like these to prevent the economic activity of livestock farming. Be assured, Madam Member, that the Government is very present on this issue and that the severity will be necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u78	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u79	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, if it is a subject of society that can bring us together, it is indeed the battle to be waged together for people with disabilities. This is the message that I want to share at the end of the national congress of the National Union of Associations of Parents, Persons with Mental Disabilities and their Friends, the UNAPEI, in Lyon, in which I participated: 550 associations, 3000 institutions and medical-social service, several thousand men and women committed are determined to accompany each one through a fair national solidarity throughout the territory, a solidarity that allows to finance new establishments and services of proximity, to school more children, to guarantee access to work and health, to offer everywhere a suitable housing. I have no doubt about your will, but I have heard the regret of the President of UNAPEI who refers to "a policy of the Government too often disconnected from our realities, from the realities of those we accompany every day". UNAPEI deplores "a simplistic and reducing vision of inclusion, lacking concrete proposals for the most vulnerable". [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the GDR group]] You will understand our concern, on these benches, if your policy is not accepted and shared. Inclusion is a society project that is not decreed and involves taking into account each other's differences. Can you reassure us, reassure the families, the professionals, the people concerned who do not share your vision of inclusion? Everyone wants recognition of everyone's place, because everyone has to choose their own way and live their own life!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u80	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u81	Thank you for your question. You are right: the cause you are defending, which you are exposing to us this afternoon, is shared on all these benches. I'll try to give you some answers. First of all, a number of concrete measures are already being implemented to simplify and give disabled people their full place in our society: I am thinking of the right to vote, the upgrading of the allowance for disabled adults. Nevertheless, you have been right to remind him, many things still have to be done. As such, the transformation of supply cannot succeed without a strong partnership between the State, departments and all actors on the ground. In this connection, I would point out that, some 15 days ago, the Prime Minister met with representatives of all associations to discuss these issues. Such a change is motivated by only one goal: to meet the expectations and needs of people with disabilities and their families by promoting the development of an inclusive society, as you said. The expectations of people with disabilities are simple: they want to be citizens in their own right and live with dignity while exercising their rights. To do this, we will have to offer support to all those who need it, because leaving people without a solution would be the opposite of the inclusive society that we want to build together. The proposed responses must be flexible, modular, built with each – in short, tailored – and adjusted, regardless of the chosen place of life. It is not a question of opposing models, but of ensuring that the full range of solutions is offered to those concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u82	Blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u83	Professionals and families have launched very concrete initiatives, sometimes taking risks and identifying room for manoeuvre in relation to the legal framework, which is often too restrictive. We are seeking precisely today to release these energies and to support professionals in the evolution of practices and new models. To achieve such an ambition, we have the chance to have more resources. The current offer amounts to almost 495,000 places in institutions and services, 158,000 places for children, 337000 places for adults. The considerable budget, co-financed by the State and the departments, is about 17 billion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Things have changed for several years, but much work remains to be done. I am sure that on all these benches we will be able to work constructively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u84	Mrs Carole Bureau-Bonnard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u85	My question is to Mrs Élisabeth Borne, Minister of Transport. As you know, the Seine-Nord Europe Canal project, a missing link in the Seine-Escaut large-scale network, is at the heart of the concerns of the inhabitants and elected representatives of the Hauts-de-France region. In addition to being a European, ecological and eco-responsible cooperation project, it is of paramount importance for our territories, as it is a source of jobs and economic attractiveness. Work on Area 1 from Compiègne to Passel is underway in my riding of the Oise. The Île-de-France and Hauts-de-France regions voted, and thus confirmed by deliberation, their financial participation in the project, as well as the departments of Nord, Oise, Pas-de-Calais and La Somme, which I welcome. The European Union increased its participation by 40 to 50% on the 4.5 billion euro arrows for the Seine-Nord Canal. The State's share is EUR 1 billion, to which should be added 700 million loans to be borne by the Seine-Nord Europe Canal Corporation. The issue of funding is a matter of concern. This project, which is part of the infrastructure programming of the mobility law, also provides for the regionalisation of the Canal Seine-Nord company. On 29 March, I was present at the Elysée side by side with many mayors, elected and parliamentarians of the Hauts-de-France region who, in the framework of the great debate, responded to the invitation of the President of the Republic. At this meeting, the Head of State made it very clear: "The State will be at the rendezvous, the commitments will be fulfilled". For months, I have been working with elected associations and organizations, as well as with my colleagues in the region, including Catherine Osson and Stéphane Demilly. I meet very regularly with the departments of the ministries concerned to explore funding solutions – and I have also expressed the wish that a mission be created to determine in a concerted manner the revenue that could be spent on it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Can you tell us what is being done to ensure that the state honours its commitments on this project, which is so important to our territories and our region?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u86	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u87	Be assured that the Government is fully engaged with the communities to carry out this Seine-Nord Europe Canal project. As early as 2017, we decided to move the governance of the project company to a local public institution – a strong demand from the Hauts-de-France region to which we responded. The work has been completed and the corresponding provisions will be included in the mobility guidance bill to be discussed next week in this House. In addition, I confirm that the State will be at the rendezvous of its commitment to this project, to the tune of 1 billion. It is based on a long-term loan from the project company, which could be financed by a resource based on a local base. I would like to announce that together with my colleagues Bruno Le Maire and Gérald Darmanin, we have just entrusted the inspections of our departments with a mission in this regard. This will identify the tax resources that could be allocated to the project company. The conclusions will be delivered to us as early as July. Finally, I would like to announce that the Government has just approved the draft implementing act of the European Commission for the Seine-Escaut cross-border link. Europe thus clearly demonstrates its long-term commitment to the Canal, beyond the current European funding mechanisms. In the aftermath of the elections, this is an obvious manifestation of Europe's role in favour of our territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Whether in terms of governance or funding, including European, you can see the total mobilization of the Government in order to make this beautiful project a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u88	My question is for the Prime Minister. This morning, the investigation newspaper Disclose revealed that a shipment of military equipment would be shipped from Marseille by cargo to Saudi Arabia today. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Already, on 7 May, this military equipment should have been loaded aboard a cargo ship in Le Havre. It was only through the pressure of citizens, elected officials and dockers that this could be prevented. The conflict in Yemen, which is entering its fourth year, is considered the "worst humanitarian crisis in the world" by the United Nations. More than 22 million people – three quarters of the population – need humanitarian assistance and protection. And what is the French Government doing? He delivers weapons, thus complicit in war crimes. As early as September 2018, the same newspaper, with a graded "confidential defense", revealed the map of the civilian populations threatened and the presence on the area of forty-eight caesar cannons, that is, French military equipment. The media also reveals that the weapons delivered by France are well used for offensive purposes and were used in bombings against civilian populations. Despite repeated requests for clarification by the deputies and by the citizens, the Government continues to deny any involvement and, on 17 April, before journalists, the Minister of the Armed Forces, claimed that, to his knowledge, French weapons were not used in this conflict. Prime Minister, the UN has certified that war crimes have been committed in Yemen by Saudi Arabia. I remind you that Article 6 of the Arms Trade Treaty, ratified by our country, prohibits any transfer of arms that could be used for attacks against civilians. The involvement of our country in this war, whether by providing intelligence to belligerents or by engaging in technical, human and financial means, is unacceptable. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] We therefore solemnly ask you to immediately stop all arms deliveries, training and COMs – maintenance in operational condition – to the countries involved in this conflict.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u89	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u90	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u91	You are approaching in two minutes, since that is the rule, a complex question, which I had the opportunity to answer in detail before your Defence Committee a few days ago. However, I will try to answer some of your questions. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] First of all, is it surprising that a Saudi ship passes through Le Havre or Marseille? The answer is obviously no, since these are two large ports. [[Long exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] Secondly, is it surprising that it can contain weapons? I cannot yet tell you whether that is the case, because we are in the process of verifying it and, since I have no responsibility for customs administration or maritime traffic, I cannot answer you on the basis of press information from 1 p.m. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u92	Stop talking about mariole!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u93	Mr. Ruffin! Next time, it will be a call to order with a record!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u94	Even if that would be the case – which is not proven at the time I speak to you – would that be surprising? No, because we have a partnership with Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u95	Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u96	[[Repeated exclamations on FI benches]] Why this partnership? For several reasons: firstly, because there are forty thousand French nationals in the Arab-Persic Gulf; Then, due to the Bab-el-Mandeb Strait.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u97	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u98	[[Applause fed on the benches of the LaREM group]] You asked a question, but if it's just asking questions without listening to the answers, then we're wrong to exercise...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u99	We don't want any more lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u100	Thank you, Madam Minister, those who wish to hear from you will have listened to you; So much for the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u101	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u102	Prime Minister, since its creation, the Libertés et territoires Group has always alerted you to a triple urgency: social, ecological and territorial emergency. Last Sunday, by choosing to abstain or by placing in the lead the National Rally, the opponent whom the President of the Republic had chosen himself, the French and French reminded you that these emergencies have worsened! Their vote showed above all that there were two Frances: that of the winners of globalisation, and that of the losers, for whom territorial divides and social difficulties are more present than ever and to which it is absolutely vital to finally provide a strong response. At the end of the great national debate, the President of the Republic announced a number of decisions: do not be mistaken, Prime Minister, they are still insufficient. You're in power. It is up to you to restore confidence, to reconcile the French and to work hand in hand with all those who, on the ground, hold part of the solutions. For this, what France needs is not a tactical duel between Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen, which is a dangerous game for our democracy. No, what France needs is for the President of the Republic and the Government to take a real social, ecological and territorial turn. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Prime Minister, are you ready to do this by speeding up and amplifying the measures to support purchasing power by the President of the Republic? by launching a concrete, committed and ambitious environmental policy? by finally trusting the territories, for more proximity and efficiency, with a real shock of decentralization and a right to differentiation fully recognized?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u103	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u104	You are asking me about the follow-up to be given both to the announcements made by the President of the Republic at his press conference, and to the election that took place on Sunday. As far as the latter is concerned, you have indicated that the President of the Republic has chosen an adversary. I would like to point out that a number of party leaders, who sit on the extreme benches of this assembly, have publicly indicated that the European elections should be a referendum for or against the President of the Republic. [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In any case, the most extreme forces have chosen, by political strategy, to present this election, in a thousand places of European stakes, some going so far as to say that, if the President of the Republic made less than 10%, he should leave... without drawing for themselves the same consequences. I observe that the French voted a lot, that the turnout in these elections is rising very sharply, which is excellent news for our democracy, after the moments that we have seen when the protest in its most violent form might suggest that legitimacy was no longer in the ballot box but in the street. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The fact that participation in the European election has been much more important than usual is excellent news, which we should all welcome here. And allow me here to thank and say the essential role played in our democracy, the mayors, the municipal elected representatives, but also our fellow citizens, all those who last Sunday held polling stations and contributed to voting operations. Their efforts and commitment have not been in vain, on the contrary! Then you asked me about what we were going to do. The President of the Republic stated at his press conference that they were the substantive and methodological orientations he gave to the Government. It is therefore quite simple: when the President of the Republic gives substantive and methodological guidance, the Prime Minister and the Government implement the substantive and methodological guidelines given by the President of the Republic. We will do so in all areas, with more resources, more attention and more consultation, to ensure that our policy is more tailored to each territory, better defined and more effective. That is why I will have the opportunity, in the coming weeks, to meet with a very large number of heads of associations of local elected representatives, mayors, presidents of departmental councils, presidents of regional councils. I will also indicate shortly the exact timetable for all the reforms that will follow. We have made a lot of commitments that we will have to fulfil, whether in the area of taxation and local taxation, or in the area of legislation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will be meeting the ambition of the President of the Republic, and the results of Sunday prompt me to say that in this matter our fellow citizens invite us to more action, consideration, consultation and efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u105	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u106	Mr. Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, in 2015 in Vienna, was signed a historic disarmament agreement with Iran. Tehran pledged never to seek to acquire nuclear weapons in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions. Since 2017, the International Atomic Energy Agency has consistently confirmed Iran's compliance with its obligations. Yet, three years later, Donald Trump announced the unilateral withdrawal of the United States from this agreement. In August 2018, a first round of sanctions targeted the civil aviation and automotive sectors. In November 2018, a second wave of sanctions led to the embargo on Iranian oil. Because of the extraterritoriality of American law, these sanctions severely affected the Iranian economy and the companies, particularly French companies, that had invested in Iran. For months, the European countries that have signed the agreement have sought to circumvent these sanctions, without success. French, British and German announced that they were putting in place a tool called Instex, a kind of barter mechanism. This device is at a dead end. On May 2, a third round of sanctions was decided by Trump, putting an end to the exemptions granted to eight countries to import Iranian crude. In response, Tehran announced on 8 May that it would suspend the restrictions on uranium enrichment and the slumping of the Arak heavy water reactor, a decision taken in compliance with the Vienna Agreement, as provided for in Articles 26 and 36. Iran gave 60 days to its partners to operationalize their commitments, otherwise it would no longer comply with other clauses of the agreement. President Hassan Rohani's message was clear: "This decision is reversible at any time. The purpose of this operation is to save the agreement, not to destroy it. » The Americans deployed aircraft carriers and B52 bombers in the Persian Gulf. They have just announced the dispatch of an additional 1,500 men as a preventive measure. In a climate of heightened security tension on the mined land of Syria, Libya, Lebanon, Iraq and Yemen, the risk of accidental slippage is high. We are in the aftermath of the European elections. Many promises have been made. What actions will you take to ensure, first of all, that France, England, Germany and the European Union respect their commitments? The credibility of the European Union is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u107	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u108	Madam Member, the preservation of the Vienna agreement signed in 2015 on Iranian nuclear power is essential. This is a priority for the security of France, the European Union and the world. This conviction has guided our action since the Americans withdrew from this agreement a year ago. The tensions, alas, are rising. Iran has announced partial implementation of the agreement and we believe that this is a bad reaction to a bad American decision. More than ever, it is necessary to keep the channel of dialogue open in order to try to resolve the crisis. That is why, on 13 May, by the voice of Jean-Yves Le Drian, French and European, repeated it forcefully at the Foreign Affairs Council. As long as the agreement is respected, Europeans will do their part in the economic aspects in order to preserve the benefits. The Instex mechanism has been put in place. It will be operational once the Iranians have made effective the mirror device that allows these exchanges. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At the same time, we have opened up a number of concerns to Iranians, be it ballistics or their regional influence. This comprehensive approach must be raised with frankness. I did it ten days ago with Kamal Kharrazi, adviser to the Supreme Guide, in charge of foreign affairs. I know that a large number of parliamentarians have mobilized through a forum. We are determined, as Europeans, members of a power of peace and stability, to preserve this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u109	Mr Max Mathiasin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u110	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, Emmanuel Macron, then presidential candidate of 2017, had finally been able to revive, during his campaign, the hope of the ultramarines, perpetual forgotten of the Republic. His consideration for these territories, his commitment still makes us think that anything remains possible, provided that we are heard. The Government then promised to have the ultramarine reflex for each of the texts it would present. In this regard, we feel that we have not been heard. We are aware, of course, that it takes time to change reflexes, to transform public policies. You've only been in business for two years. But today, we are going to vote on the Public Service Modernization Bill. Let us make it clear that the account is not for ultramarines, particularly with regard to the principle of territorial continuity, on which we have repeatedly alerted the departments of your department. After the remarkable information report of our colleagues, Lénaick Adam and David Lorion, we are twenty-four ultramarine MPs out of twenty-seven who signed a letter asking for an interview in order to reflect together on how to change the enhanced holidays, without harming the historical social rights of our officials. We are still waiting for your answer. Of course, the parliamentary shuttle will make it possible to change the text, but I solemnly ask you to take into account the reality of the lives of our ultramarine fellow citizens, not to forget that the enhanced holidays are only compensation linked to the remoteness, a counterpart that results from the history of our country and our administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u111	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u112	Mr President, enhanced leave is not an unfair advantage, but a right granted to ultramarine civil servants who work in Hexagon to allow them to join their families, to maintain a link with the territory. There is no question of questioning this right. However, this right will be updated or reviewed. The President of the Republic himself promised the ultramarines, a year ago, that they could return more often to their homes but less long. We have begun this work with the Department of the Public Service. Olivier Dussopt follows this file with all of his teams. Following the recommendations of the Overseas Delegation's report, we will take the time to consult with associations, trade unions and parliamentarians. A meeting should also take place around 8 June, which I welcome. We plan to return every two years rather than every three years. On the other hand, there is no question, for me, of reopening the subject of the overpayment of civil servants overseas, even if we could debate it. Other questions arise. So, do we have to take into account the recomposed families? The family has indeed changed. Do we have to integrate some overseas territories that are not concerned today, such as the Pacific? What do you decide about the cost of airfares? Not all airlines play the game, you know. What model, simpler, could we imagine? There is no question of letting families pay, because some would be disadvantaged. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The proposals are on the table, we will debate them quietly to respond more effectively to those who want to return regularly to their homes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u113	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u114	Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, in Dieppe, Sandouville, Cléon and throughout France, we hear the trumpets of Renault's engagement with Fiat-Chrysler. You yourself seem in a hurry that we publish the banns of this marriage adorned with all virtues. Like the employees, we, on the contrary, are very sceptical about what is more like an arranged business marriage, under the pressure of Fiat's historic shareholder, who expects a dowry representing 40% of the 2.5 billion euros of exceptional dividends promised to shareholders. This marriage, which seems to be consummated even before it is pronounced, raises more questions than it guarantees neither industrial happiness nor employment prospects in the future. Why, Minister, was Renault's shareholder state placed before the fait accompli? More serious: from the spectator-share state, which is interested in the course of the action than in the industrial strategy, we will move tomorrow to a stunted state. Holder of 15% of Renault's capital today, he will increase to 7.5% of the shares in the new entity, losing his double voting rights. Why were employee representatives and their directors left in the wind of these deals? Why not recognise that Fiat's model is factories and jobs in Eastern Europe? Why not say that this future husband is not at best in his form, that he does not really have a strategy and that he is accumulating delays in innovation? Why silence the fact that the promises he makes on the maintenance of jobs are to be compared with the duplicative hunt, called modestly synergies, that Fiat-Chrysler intends to pour into the bride's basket? Why this hunt for volume and size, at the risk of obesity, when the Renault-Nissan alliance is not, itself, consolidated and the Japanese do not want this marriage to three? What will this couple's industrial project be? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Mr Minister, can you make a commitment to the Communist Group to quickly receive the actors concerned, particularly the employees, and tell us how the State intends to play its role?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u115	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u116	Mr President, in this merger project between Renault and Fiat, we are not at the stage of marriage, we are at the stage of engagement. We are not in a hurry and we are not giving in to any pressure. Indeed, there is a strategic issue behind this project: to enable Renault and the entire French automotive industry to face unprecedented technological disruptions since the beginning of the 20th century. The electric vehicle, the autonomous vehicle, the connected vehicle – you know the automotive sector perfectly – will demand not millions, not billions, but tens of billions of euros of new investments, to enable us to succeed in the automotive industry market. We want the French automotive industry to remain one of the world's champions of the automotive industry. From this point of view, we believe that the merger project between Renault and Fiat is an opportunity to consolidate ourselves, an opportunity to invest, an opportunity to innovate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u117	Like Ford.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u118	But we need guarantees for the employees, for the shareholders and, quite simply, for our compatriots. The first of the guarantees that I ask the President of Renault, Jean-Dominique Senard, to bring, is the preservation of industrial jobs: no factory closure should be carried out. This, I repeat, is the fundamental guarantee that I ask the President of Renault to bring. The second guarantee concerns the alliance, which you recalled, between Renault and Nissan, that we want to strengthen – my Japanese counterpart and I said it last week. This project must therefore be part of the Renault- Nissan alliance. The third is a guarantee of governance: that national interests are represented and well represented in the future governance of Renault and this alliance. The fourth and final guarantee, which we are asking for, is that the future big company, the day it will be created, will participate in the electric battery project that we have launched with Germany, to ensure the technological sovereignty of France, Germany and Europe in the field of batteries. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am, of course, ready to receive all the elected representatives involved in this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u119	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u120	Mr. Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, the Government aims to dematerialize 100 per cent of public services by 2022. This project goes hand in hand with the digital identity path managed by the state, which is a major citizen issue as well as a sovereignty issue. Digital identity is the unique and secure identifier assigned to everyone, which will provide access to online services requiring authentication. First of all, it will have important implications for citizens and public life, at a time when it is essential to bring the administration's relationship closer and reinvigorated with its citizens. It is also an issue of economic development and confidence for the digital transformation of our society. Secure digital identity would allow online shopping or access to collaborative platforms such as social networks. Finally, digital identity would be an additional guarantee for the control of personal data: it would be an identity managed by the State and not several identities managed by private platforms. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In connection with the project started in 2019 within the State Platform and FranceConnect, could you tell us the guidelines and the means chosen to relaunch this project?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u121	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u122	Madam Member, I thank you for drawing attention, through your question, to a subject which is not yet known but which will be a central element of the policy of dematerialisation and simplification of access to public services, since, as you pointed out, the State should, from 2021 onwards, gradually replace all the identity cards of the French. This renewal will be an opportunity to incorporate into the new ID cards an element of electronic identification: very concretely, from this date onwards, we will be able to take steps online that require a physical presence such as voting or opening a bank account. This clearly opens up extraordinary opportunities for use and ease of access. I am thinking in particular of people with disabilities or difficulties in travelling. This will have to simplify the lives of the French by fluidizing many approaches which are still too painful today. Such a project implies, of course, that all the guarantees are laid down with regard to the protection of the privacy of the French: the aim is not to fall into an Orwellian drift – we will be very careful with the interior minister Christophe Castaner. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Moving forward towards digital identity is a necessity, honourable Member, for a simple reason: if the public authorities do not take care of it, then it will be others, in particular the GAFAs, who, through their usages, will impose their identity system. That is why the Minister of the Interior and I have set up a dedicated team to advance this project, which will be an essential part of the dematerialization of public services. I will have the opportunity, together with the Minister of the Interior, to present this project to the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u123	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u124	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u125	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.10 and resumed at 16.30 with Francis Vercamer in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u126	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u127	The next item is the explanations of vote and the vote by public vote on the bill to transform the civil service (Nos. 1802 and 1924).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u128	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u129	At the outset, I would like to stress once again the quality of our discussions and our discussions with the Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, our colleagues in the majority and all the Members here. I stress this today in the Chamber, as I pointed out in committee, because it is not so common. The text before us, which we have helped to improve, proposes to modernize the public service. It simplifies and streamlines the social dialogue, in particular by refocusing the role of the Joint Administrative Committees and by bringing together the Technical Committee and the Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions – CHSCT. It strengthens professional equality for persons with disabilities and between women and men. It provides – and this is an essential point – greater flexibility in the recruitment of agents and in the management of their careers, without calling into question the status of the public service. The mobility of staff between the various sides, as well as between the public and private sectors, will be facilitated. In addition to greater openness to contractors, the text provides for the creation of a project contract for category A and B staff, since category C staff, who are not intended to pilot projects, have been excluded from the scheme. On this point, the MODEM Group has been heard, and I thank our colleagues from all the groups for that. Finally, the text provides for new rules to govern these mobilitys between public and private and to make the remuneration of senior officials more transparent. Flexibility in the management of the body implies that guarantees are provided for possible situations of conflict of interest. I am thinking in particular of the departure of public servants to the private sector, but also of their possible return to the public service. We have thus managed to merge the Commission on the Ethics of the Civil Service with the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, as suggested by the report drawn up by our colleagues Olivier Marleix and Fabien Matras. Thus, the most sensitive individual situations will be entrusted to the High Authority, which has real guarantees of independence. Its opinions will be public and, above all, they will have to be followed up. For this major step forward, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has associated the majority of the various groups with the construction of the most robust and consensual solution. I hope that this method of work will inspire us for the remainder of the legislature. However, I would like to reiterate our reservation regarding the appointment, within this new independent administrative authority, of two persons qualified by decree, that is, by the Government. In order to avoid any gender confusion and to preserve the independence enjoyed by the High Authority, we would have preferred these appointments to be entrusted to the Presidents of the Assembly and the Senate, as advocated by the various groups in the Chamber. We regret, moreover, that we have not been able to return, with regard to the offence of unlawful taking of interests, to a definition that allows for the effective prosecution, which is very difficult in the current drafting of the text. We will miss this tool, but we have heard what you have told us, Mr. Secretary of State, about the possible referral of Mrs. Keeper of Seals, with – perhaps – your support. Similarly, we regret that the definition of an interest representative has not been changed. Lobbying activities, since they are not the agent's main activity, will continue to be carried out without control, while they may address major political and financial issues. Again, it is up to us to seize, if necessary, the guard of the seals. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Apart from these reservations, we are satisfied with the text from our House, which responds to the need for greater flexibility, control and transparency in the management of the three sides of the public service. Under these circumstances, the MODEM Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u130	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u131	For six days, you skipped the real questions that your text posed, not answering those that bothered you and trying to convince us that your text was technical, while it is obviously political. Indeed, there is no reform of the civil service, which inherently does not involve State reform. Your reform does not escape it and says something about your relationship to the State, minimal, to the general interest, sum of special interests, to public action, subsidiary, and a contrario, to private power. Your text is singularly lacking in historical depth and vision of the future. He has his aspirations and his inspirations, and yours are clear: the liberalism of Frédéric Bastiat or the new public management Anglo-Saxon. The public service, Mr. Secretary of State, is the product of a long history, made of cleverly constructed compromises. It was forged by great laws, which are republican cathedrals: I am thinking of the great laws of 1946, 1983 and 1984. The status and law of the public service have something to do with individual emancipation, with political progress, with the general interest, with public freedoms, with a very French conception of public service. It is the raison d'être of the statute and the principles that underpin it. Far from being the privilege of civil servants, this status is first and foremost the condition for a republican exercise of public action and the guarantee of respect for the general interest. I want to remind them of these principles. The first of them is equality. Entry into the public service is through the competition, which guarantees equal access to public employment and selection through competence; competition, as a means of reconciling the selection of the most suitable and the democratization of the civil service; the contest, as the best bulwark to favouritism and clientelism. The second principle is independence. Civil servants must be protected from political uncertainty and arbitrariness. The French public service is thus based on the so-called career system, where the rank is distinct from employment. The third principle is that of citizenship. Civil servants are citizens who have the same rights and duties as other citizens: freedom of opinion, trade union rights and the right to strike, all of which are in line with the obligations of the public service in terms of neutrality, ethics, discretion or public information. Secretary of State, your reform is not an addition of technical provisions, simplification or coordination, but a break with the long history of the civil service. By extending the use of the contract to a very large extent, you certainly do not abolish the status – I have never said so – but you make the choice of the normalization of the public service and of the exercise of the state and, ultimately, of the weakening of public action. In fact, according to information that you deny, but I maintain, it may be that with your reform, we reach as many as 40% of contract agents in the public service – through the famous Title II of your bill and the decrees, which will probably be drafted in a very flexible way, since, contrary to the commitments made, you did not wish to communicate them to us during the debates. You make the contract a paragon of modernity and the pivot of the effectiveness of public action. I see, too much to extend, the risk of his corruption. The status is not at first protective of the agents: it is, above all, protective of the republican order and of the general interest. With the contract, you choose the short term, while the climate emergency commands the continuity of public action and calls to reconsider the long time as a field of projects. With the contract, competitor of the contest, you take the risk of arbitrariness, breach of equality, clientelism in recruitment. With the contract open to the vast majority of management jobs on all three sides of the public service, you take the risk of confusion between public and private interests, through slippers or backpants, and you are simultaneously weakening the career prospects of public servants. With the contract and its avatars – they are numerous in your bill – with the possibility of resorting to conventional breaches or moving certain civil servants in the private sector automatically in the event of outsourcing, you open the way to narrowing public action, where the question of its extension arises in an unprecedented way. Finally, your bill will unheard of weaken social dialogue in the public service by merging certain jurisdictions, even though occupational health is a key issue. [[Applause on the banks of the SOC group.–M. StéphanePeuapplaudit also]] Mr. Secretary of State, your bill has been unanimously rejected by the nine trade union organizations in the civil service; It will also be the subject of a unanimous rejection of the members of the Socialist and Related Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u132	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u133	Through this bill, the Government calls for a transformation of the civil service. No one here challenges the need to modernize, adapt, reform our public service, provided we know what we're talking about, and be clear about what we're trying to achieve. At the end of this first reading, we can take stock of the changes brought about by the text, but no one is able to say what the Government's final objective is, or what future you are preparing for the civil service. Prior to the text, the public service had a clear framework for social dialogue, which had been appropriated by public employers and staff representatives. With the removal of the health, safety and working conditions committees – CHSCT – and with joint administrative committees reduced to the acquis, you propose a social dialogue emptied of its substance, destructured, unbalanced and potential source of increased litigation. In the case of recruitment methods, prior to the text, the civil service principle of status made the use of the contract the exception. At the end of the parliamentary debate, the increased use of the contract, without clear lines or objectives, brings two-edged potential: relaxation of the essential status in certain situations, on the one hand; competition between the civil service of status and the public service of employment, the other. In fact, your project contributes to the continuous nibbling of the status, without assuming either the philosophy or the consequences. As we said during the discussion, the question to be decided is: what are the missions, trades and positions that will remain in status tomorrow, and who can be exempted from them? You owed this transparency to employers and public officials. Unfortunately, the confusion maintained contributes to the unanimous rejection of the project by the social partners. Before the text, we witnessed the healthy beginnings of a culture of ethics. Thanks in particular to the contributions of parliamentarians, the latter is strengthened and better structured. It is the result of a transcurrent work that I would like to welcome, with an emphasis on fair treatment between the elected representatives of the Republic and the senior officials who serve it. Here is an instant photograph of our debates. While nothing has really been transformed, positive developments are to be noted, particularly in the area of ethics and professional equality between women and men. We also welcome the fact that category C agents are not covered by the new project contract, and that parliamentarians and our fellow citizens will finally be aware of the remuneration of officials appointed by the executive within the major administrative authorities. However, major uncertainties remain, particularly as a result of the massive use of ordinances in the fundamental areas of training, social protection for staff and their remuneration. What will it mean to engage in the public service of our country tomorrow? Are there any risks of competition between status and employment? These are central questions which, to date, remain unanswered. The IDU, Action and Independent Group wanted to go further, and we have made many proposals to improve the text. Unfortunately, they were not heard. As regards, for example, the use of the project contract, it seemed important to us to better supervise the missions and to grant a precarious premium to all short contracts, and not only to those of less than one year duration. With regard to transparency and ethics measures, we believe that the measures voted on are too limited. The senior public service, by virtue of its place, must accept a framework that is more restrictive than the mere crunching of remunerations by decree, which is therefore remunerated with the executive. We are also campaigning for the emergence of a large public service for the management of the territorial civil service, through the merger of the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service and the management centres. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] The general economy of the text appears to be inconclusive and does not reflect the great ambitions announced. If the bill meets several practical needs, the logic, or rather the lack of logic, that underlies it does not allow parliamentarians to vote knowingly. That is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group will abstain mostly on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u134	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u135	First of all, I would like to address all public servants and tell them that their action is essential for our country and that they participate in social democracy and, to a certain extent, solidarity. Let us remember: public services are the heritage of those who have nothing and we, in La France insoumise, are so that those who have nothing have more. The Statute guarantees equal treatment, neutrality, democratic stability and the recognition of the needs of users of public services. It must be said that this reform is being carried out against the public service. You don't like civil servants, trade unions, the state, or local authorities. You don't like the public sector. For you, users are consumers and public services of services like others. The normalization of the contract could lead to the "balllization" of the Republic. There is a link between the performance of tasks of general interest and the status of public officials. Serving a public service mission is not the same as serving a public employer. You want to move from a career public service, fulfilling a public service mission, to a public service of employment, to the service of public employers first. This changes the nature of the public service. You are breaking social and trade union democracy in the civil service, with the transcription of the 2017 Labour Orders: merger of bodies, reduction of the scope of joint administrative commissions, tightening of sanctions against agents, with the possibility of arbitrary layoffs. You encourage mobility, but by doing so, by integrating the ethics commission into the High Authority for Transparency in Public Life – which is a good feeling – you end up reducing the scope of ethical control and bringing government representatives into the bodies. You extend the contractualization and, in doing so, you precarise more. Not everyone in the contract category will be on CDI! I know that you are planning permanent public jobs, but there will also be a lot more CSDs, including "project" CSDs, lasting from one to six years, which is proof of some precariousness. Your objective, initially, is 40% of contract workers, but we know that in the long run, the Liberals' objective is to make status something marginal. We have nothing against the contractors and the work they do; That's why we propose to titularize them, because they do their job well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u136	And increase them, too?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u137	That's what we have to do. You, on the contrary, are preparing the equivalent of major plans for the dismissal of public officials. You are planning the legal framework to dispense with civil servants, with the secondment of office or the conventional break. You are in line with this Europe which favours the dismantling of public services. The primacy of the contract as a result of the marginalization of the status is the mechanism that will facilitate the closure of public services. It is much simpler, if everyone is already under contract – no matter if it is under public law – to privatize entire sectors of government. This is your political objective, and it is the same that is being pursued throughout Europe. [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] This text is ultimately characteristic of the Republic of Friends – and girlfriends. I say it and say it again: if you want to recruit contractors for permanent executive jobs in the senior administration, you will put your buddies in the place of people who had been chosen through a competition, however imperfect it may be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u138	Isn't that what you're doing, in unsuspecting France, with your communications officers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u139	You even planned a golden parachute for them. Once they have served well, not the general interest, but your political purposes, you will make a conventional break and, since there is no ceiling, they will touch the jackpot. That's what you're planning! Today, your friends do not want to work in the public service: they do not want to work under these conditions, with the freezing of the index point; They do not want to work loyally for the government that will succeed you. You, you want to bring them in, to better dismantle state apparatus for the benefit of the big gourmands of great capital who dream only of one thing: to make profitability where, today, we do not make it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u140	And what do we do in La France unsuspecting?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u141	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the GDR group]] The La France insoumise group will therefore vote against this text, because officials will always be better than your mercenaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u142	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u143	Colleagues, we have come to the conclusion of the review of the Public Service Transformation Bill, which could usefully be renamed, so that our fellow citizens understand what is being said, "public service termination bill." Your text undermines the French and Republican conception of the public service, a model whose greatness and originality are noticed, if not envied, all over the world. You weaken a public service based on neutrality, which ensures that it serves the general interest rather than the particular interests; a civil service that entered into modernity at the end of the last world war, when it was necessary to rebuild, from its public services, a democratic nation making the choice of progress, freedom and equality, against darkness and barbarism. It is in this particular context, ladies and gentlemen, after the Nazi occupation and the vichyst collaboration, that the modern status of our public service has been built. Built around three principles, equality, neutrality and responsibility, this statute creates a civil servant-citizen who is not the "impersonal working of the administrative machine", in the words of General de Gaulle's minister of the time, Maurice Thorez. Yes, this public service was able to evolve, particularly under the impetus of Anicet Le Pors, at the edge of the 1980s, to be the tool of a modern, decentralized France, organized around communities that freely administer themselves for the benefit of all. Yes, this large public service has been able to meet the development requirements of our public services in so many areas: care, education, movement, communication, protection, defence... So many essential needs for our lives! The French, moreover, know this well, they who, faced with increased impoverishment, with inequalities between the ever deeper territories, are now demanding massively more public services. They are well aware that public action and the republican spirit that enlivens it are among the most reliable vectors of social and territorial cohesion. Staff status is not a privilege. It is the expression and incarnation of the values essential to the vitality of our Republic: the primacy of the general interest, the affirmation of the principles of equality, secularism and probity. Unfortunately, your text turns its back on these values. You choose to make a shift from private to public. It's your obsession: when you don't entrust to the private sector the missions of the public, you inject into the public the methods of the private sector. It is the spirit and letter of your bill that the state be "managed as a business" – to use Emmanuel Macron's formula. This is the meaning of the massive use of contract workers. For us, however, it is the competition that must remain the rule of entry into the public service, because it guarantees the principle of equality to the detriment of the self, networks of influence and clientelism. It guarantees every citizen the opportunity to assert his or her competence and it preserves public action from conflicts of interest that are contrary to the public interest. The same applies to slippers and back-pants, i.e. those going-and-returns between public and private, or the use of contractors, particularly on high-level posts, thus maintaining the confusion of the aims of the public and the private sector. As in the private sector, with construction contracts, your project contracts, which can be broken before term and which do not give rise to tenure or a CDI, will de facto reduce the agent's independence from economic and political pressures. As in the private sector, you are introducing the secondment of office and the use of conventional breakdown – a real weapon of mass destruction to satisfy the real ambition of this bill, i.e. the eventual abolition of 120,000 posts of civil servants, an unrivalled social plan in the public sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u144	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u145	As in the private sector, you remove CHSCTs and reduce the prerogatives of Joint Administrative Boards. In fact, your text is the "Labour Law" of the civil service. Methodically, you adapt our society and its republican rules to the only model you believe in: a trading society. Ladies and gentlemen, this weekend, nationalists and demagogues have further advanced their pieces throughout Europe. In the light of these results, undermining the foundations of our Republic seems even more dangerous. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] For all these reasons, the GDR Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u146	On the bill as a whole, the vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u147	If we agree on the need to transform the civil service, this reform is difficult, and our discussions have shown it to be largely difficult because of the unprecedented social crisis that our country has been going through for the past six months; difficult because of the challenges we face in meeting the expectations of the French, who want closer and more effective public services; difficult because this reform must change the status of public officials without weakening them; Finally, it was difficult because this bill was originally thought of in a logic of downsizing of public servants. The President of the Republic had announced 120,000 abolitions of posts in the three public offices; Everyone knows that the yellow vest crisis has made the quantitative aspect disappear. In a rapidly changing world, our public functions are no longer able to respond effectively to the needs of our fellow citizens, and our public servants are sometimes in precarious situations – I am thinking in particular of the numerous contractual ones. The career of some of them stagnates, and they suffer from a real lack of recognition and attractiveness of their fields. Our group therefore expected significant progress from the parliamentary debate in order to transform in depth the three public functions – very little has been said about the hospital public service – and to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens regarding the tasks they must carry out. But that was not the case. We regret, therefore, that this reform would change the status of public officials without the definition of the new territorial organization, which would have made it possible to know who was doing what. As everyone knows, we must reduce duplication and eliminate delays, which, in addition to their costs to the state and communities, are not understood by our fellow citizens. There is a need for effective public functions, which do not intertwine in some of their day-to-day missions. What we need is no less nurses, fewer police officers or fewer public officials. What we no longer want is partitions between the different public functions; It is the loss of energy, the slowness and the actions that are hampered by the presence of communities and the state in the same segments. That's why we asked you – and perhaps we'll end up being heard? – a major deconcentration movement, expected in the territories where civil servants would thus be reinjected, and a real shock of decentralization. We need to trust local actors! We are ready to accompany you in this direction. Our aim was then to preserve – I say well – the status of the civil service in its principles of neutrality, independence, integrity and equal treatment of users. Our amendments were intended to prevent abuses harmful to the sustainability of these principles, such as the one relating to slippers, but you rejected them. On ethics in the senior public service, provisions have been adopted and this is a first step, but you have not gone far enough. The law for confidence in political life has gone much further, I would remind you, for parliamentarians. The public policy chain, which relies on both elected officials and public officials, must be exemplary at all levels. It is not a question of stigmatizing large bodies, which, like the Court of Auditors, contribute to the influence of France; But all the links in the public action chain must evolve, as parliamentarians are asked to do. Our amendments also sought to increase mobility between the three public functions, through the portability of one CDI for any transition from one public institution to another. Your refusal may lead to less mobility and more insecurity. In terms of careers, we have called in vain for the strengthening of skills, particularly in the areas of digital technology – a revolution that needs to be accompanied – and the mastery of a foreign language. We also wanted an undertaking to be made on the payment of unpaid overtime to date. When we want to introduce merit pay, it is already important, I believe, to finance these overtime. We have also proposed that project contracts, which may be an appropriate solution, be modelled on the project's CDI, in order to avoid precariousness. Once again, you have not accepted our proposal. Finally, the increased use of prescriptions on major subjects, such as the organisation of social dialogue, vocational training or the health of agents, is harmful to us. [[Mr. Olivier Falorni applauds]] This text contains some progress, I acknowledge it, but it is a missed opportunity to make the three sides of the public service more modern, more attractive, more useful and more efficient. That is why the majority of the Freedom and Territory Group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u148	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u149	Every day, in our country, 5 million women and men operate our administrations, schools, police stations, hospitals, regions, departments and municipalities. Whether they are public service holders or contract holders, they serve the public interest to ensure the functioning of our public services, to ensure our safety, to transmit knowledge, to treat and protect, to sustain our diplomacy. Their skills are not to be demonstrated, their loyalty is not to be questioned. Their commitment to the values of the Republic is inalienable. We all know that. This bill is for these women and men, and to improve the functioning of our public services. Public servants contribute to the social and territorial cohesion of our country on a daily basis and in all territories. For many years, too many standards and burdens have hindered their action. The first to say this is the agents themselves. In the face of the rapid development of their trades, in the face of a status that only gives them insufficient job opportunities to which they aspire, expectations are strong to make the public service more attractive and responsive, to allow for more diversified career paths and to better take into account the quality of life at work. While reaffirming our commitment to the status of public servants, we propose, through this bill, a modernization by providing public officials and employers with real levers to better carry out their duties and to improve the functioning of our public services. This bill promotes a more strategic and effective social dialogue, while respecting the guarantees of public officials; he develops managerial levers for a public action also more effective. We must no longer be afraid to speak of "management" in our public service, and the very training of public managers must be raised and implemented with seriousness and responsibility. This bill simplifies and ensures the transparency and fairness of the management framework for public officials; it promotes mobility and supports professional transitions; Finally, it strengthens equality between women and men and better combats sexual and gender-based violence in the workplace. That is the spirit of this piece of legislation that the working Republic Group supports with strength and conviction. The discussion in committee, and then in session, strengthened it. Ladies and gentlemen, as Laurence Vichnievsky has done, I would like to pay tribute to the quality of our work, beyond our differences, as well as to the listening, availability and constant attention of the Secretary of State until the last minute; This is reflected in the amendment by our colleague Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere, concerning a better consideration of the wishes of family caregivers for mobility, for which, at the very end of our discussions, the most accurate possible drafting was found. We have strengthened this text by deepening the competences of social councils in the area of gender equality and the management of the issues of digital work organisation, and by better guiding the definition of contractual remuneration. We strengthened this text by merging the Ethics Commission and HATVP into an independent authority. I would like to pay tribute to the trans-party work carried out on this subject by our rapporteur, as well as to the information report by our colleagues Fabien Matras and Olivier Marleix: they have enabled us to move forward. This text, we have strengthened it by adopting genuine mechanisms for the transparency of the highest remuneration for leadership positions in the three sides of the civil service and in the independent administrative authorities; We have strengthened it by expanding our commitment to the legal duration of working time, namely 35 hours, in local and regional authorities, as well as in the State civil service, and by empowering the Government to create a civil service code. This text, we have strengthened it by improving the protections specific to the most precarious agents, in particular through the introduction of a precarious premium for contract agents. For this great victory as well as for the text as a whole, on behalf of the majority, I would like to welcome the work and determination of our rapporteur, Émilie Chalas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u150	Excellent rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u151	I could go on, but I will focus on these main points. Of course, the texts relating to our public service continue to generate much debate in our country. Of course, there are concerns. They are normal and they must be listened to carefully, as we do. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to protect our social model and our public services, we must act, go beyond dogmatic conservatism and make decisions that will make our public service attractive tomorrow, a public service in which our citizens will want to engage. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Let us not be afraid to have ambition for our public service, let us not be afraid to give it the means to face the world in which we live. In the Republic on the move, that is our will: that is why our group will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u152	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u153	The Republican Group will not vote for this text. Despite a misleading title – "the transformation of the civil service" – it does not commit, in fact, the systemic reform that a number of countries have had the courage to carry out: I am thinking in particular of Italy or Portugal. In order to do so, you should first have asked yourself about the scope of what is intended to remain in status – and to protect the jobs concerned – and what is intended, on the contrary, to be brought into line with ordinary law. You simply make "holes", in a rather inconsistent way, in the status. You also do not simplify the statutory organisation, which, for the moment, could have simplified the lives of the agents. At the end of the bill, this will leave some 500 bodies in the public service, while all reports recommend that they be reduced to about 50. Tomorrow, therefore, it will always be as complicated to move from one community to another or from one ministerial department to another, and perhaps even within one ministry, from one region to another, since there will be no CAP. Nor does the text contain anything about working time, apart from a desire to apply, twenty years later, the Aubry law on 35 hours. It is obviously not up to the stakes, Mr Secretary of State. You are persevering in a renunciation that has already led you to abandon any goal of reducing the number of civil servants. Finally, there is nothing in the text on the purchasing power of civil servants. One could expect the Government, in the aftermath of the yellow vest crisis, to seek answers on this real subject. As I recall, in France, the purchasing power of civil servants has fallen by 10% in ten years. This is especially true for category C agents, whose compensation schemes have failed to correct this decline. We have offered you answers, but unfortunately you have not even bothered to examine them. In fact, your text is limited to two changes: to facilitate the use of the contract on the one hand, to empty the contents of the CAPs on the other. On these two developments, the guarantees provided are so imprecise that you have managed to put all the representative organisations behind you. I regret, Mr Secretary of State, that our discussions did not resolve the concerns expressed by each other on this subject. With regard to the use of contract workers, the question is one of the future that you are proposing to young people who enter the public service by preparing competitions, for example for attaché or engineer positions. These young people will suffer, including for management jobs, the competition you open, in a somewhat disorderly way, with contract workers. Nor should contracting create a very low-paid and precarious public under-service in category C jobs, while contributing to wage inflation already at work in the public service on the other side of the scale. As I recall, more than 70000 public service jobs, paid by the state budget, are at higher levels of pay than those of parliamentarians. As for CAPs, they have all the shortcomings we want, but they ensure transparency and fairness within the system. Their pure and simple deletion – since you completely empty them of their content – raises concerns that you have not answered. How, tomorrow, can a teacher or police officer be transferred from one department to another? In reality, he will be entirely in the hands of his hierarchy, without any guarantee of fair treatment of his case; That is obviously regrettable. On this point, you did not provide us with an answer. Of course, we still have some areas of satisfaction, particularly the contributions to the ethics of the senior public service. The Republican Group has been involved in this in the past two years, and my colleague Fabien Matras and I have made several proposals, mainly the merger of the Commission on the Ethics of the Civil Service, a little too confined to one another, and of the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, as well as the publicity of its opinions, hitherto kept secret. I am pleased that the rapporteur's ability to listen and the openness of our colleagues, particularly the majority, have enabled us to reach almost unanimous agreement on these two issues. This shows that the Government always gains in listening to the opposition; It's a pity you didn't do it any more, Secretary of State. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For the rest, the text is based on too many prejudices about the public service and creates more concerns than it provides solutions. That is why we will obviously not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u154	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u155	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 560 Number of votes cast 507 Absolute majority 254 For adoption 351 Against 156
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u156	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u157	[[The sitting was suspended at 17:15 and resumed at 17:25 with Mr Richard Ferrand in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u158	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u159	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly (No. 1882, 1955).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u160	Last night, the House continued its discussion of the articles, concluding with the amendments to the additional article after Article 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u161	I have before me three amendments, Nos 900, 555 and 712, which can be discussed jointly. The next speaker is Mr Aleksandr Holroyd, in support of Amendment No. 900.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u162	It aims to take account of the specific situation of overseas Members of Parliament and Members of the French abroad by allowing them to participate in the work of the committee at a distance by means of technical means defined by the Bureau, for example video conferencing. Thus a Member of Parliament for La Réunion could take part as actively as his colleagues in the metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u163	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 555.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u164	Many Members from overseas have co-signed this amendment, which Mr Lorion took the initiative. It would allow us to benefit, given the distance that separates us from the Assembly – more than twenty hours of flight for the elected members of the Pacific – from a particular device defined by the Bureau and relying on digital technology to compensate for our absence. You must understand, indeed, that it is sometimes physically impossible for us to be present.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u165	Mr David Lorion's amendment No 712 is being defended. I call Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the committee's opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u166	Many organizations use video conferencing or other modern technologies. We have studied the subject with the services: at this stage, it is not possible to guarantee by these means a participation equivalent to that which would allow the presence of the person. Retransmissions can be used to track the debate live, but there is currently no means of interaction. Unfavorable opinion, therefore – regrettably, because the problem is real. I hope we can find solutions for him in the future. But today, I repeat, we are not in a position to integrate new technologies because of the organisation of votes and more generally because of the democratic process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u167	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u168	These amendments raise a real problem. I remind you that to go from Wallis-et-Futuna to Paris, you have to go through Nouméa, then through Tokyo: this is the route that one of our colleagues must take; More generally, the lives of all our colleagues in the South Pacific are particularly complicated by this state of affairs, as well as by the length of their stay in Paris between two constituency returns. We would, moreover, honour ourselves by opening the debate not only on the possibilities of participation in the work and of remote voting for our overseas colleagues, but also on their lives in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u169	My colleague, in any event, the Bureau will be able to take up this matter and deepen it. It is up to the Bureau to take steps to this end, as the amendments suggest. Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u170	My colleague, Maina Sage, raises a very important question, which I will allow myself to extend to the problem of the use by our House of modern means. Several of our colleagues have talked about access to wifi in our offices or the equipment available to us. I see that I am coming out of the matter, Mr President, but there is still a link between my remarks and the amendments: the question of the technical modernisation of our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u171	The three Quaestors are available and competent on these subjects. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u172	We agree that hearings have already been held by the above-mentioned means. It is simply a question of not including this possibility in the regulation and not of making it a systematic right. But the more we move forward in this area, the more we will implement it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u173	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u174	I think, Mr President, that you have put the amendments under joint discussion a little too quickly. It would therefore be desirable to put them back to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u175	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u176	The vote took place, it was recorded; I therefore suggest that you defend Amendment No 403.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u177	All right, Mr. President. In some cases, the availability of persons to be heard in the context of the work of the rapporteurs is limited. It is therefore appropriate not to penalize the rapporteurs who should conduct these hearings on a Wednesday morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u179	Unfavorable opinion: the rules of presence have shown their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u180	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 176.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u181	I am very pleased to defend Mr Le Fur's amendment, which I have co-signed and which should receive unanimous support. We hope that the interventions of the people we audition in committee can be illustrated by slideshows and other visual aids. We had already expressed this wish in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, and we hope that the chairman, at the time, had satisfied us in order to make our meetings more lively. I would like to point out, Mr President, that the committees meet in very different rooms. It is therefore very difficult to work in good conditions in the Chamber of the Committee on Cultural Affairs. Thank you very much for improving this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u182	The amendment has been very well defended!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u183	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u184	What you are asking is already possible and has already been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u185	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u186	There is therefore no need to amend the Regulation to that effect. Each committee shall decide on the organisation of its meetings. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u187	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u188	We are many who have been denied this possibility. That is why we wish it to be included in the Rules of Procedure: it is a matter of removing any ambiguity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u190	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u191	I attach some importance to this amendment, Mr President. Formerly, the meetings of the commissions were systematically the subject of a written record – and of high quality: salute those who realize it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u193	We now have audiovisual broadcasting, very well; But some have had a strange consequence: they think that, since we have an audio-visual recording, it is no longer necessary to have a systematic written record. It is very boring for the work of Members, for the work of the staff and for those who are watching us. Indeed, finding the precise passage of an intervention in a video is long and tedious; It is identified much more quickly in a written document. I therefore hope that a written record will be an obligation. While progress has been made, a number of committee meetings do not give rise to a written record. Of course, and I hope that there are no more exceptions, when we look at a text in committee, we can have a written record; But when we hear, for example, in the Committee on Finance, the First President of the Court of Auditors – which is interesting and important – there is no written record. And that, in this case, really falls within the scope of the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the work of the House is based on the publicity of the debates, a principle that applies to the meetings of the committees, bodies of the Assembly that will become increasingly important – this is the very purpose of your proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, Mr rapporteur. Let us not be opposed to the argument of means. I am well aware that efforts are being made to allocate more resources and I do not try anyone with intent, and especially not those who write these reports – very interesting and remarkable. However, I would like to stress that the obligation of a written record must be included in the marble.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u195	I reiterate the course of action set out yesterday, which applies to all amendments on this subject: our choice is to allow the committees a great deal of freedom of operation and not to impose on them, for example, the use of audiovisual means to transmit their meetings or the obligation to report on them in writing. The power to organise the work of the committee is vested in its chairman. We could have made another choice, that of regulating the operation of the commissions. Consistent with tradition, we have decided to give them full and complete freedom. A committee chair who wishes to have a written record for such a meeting, who wishes to see a video retransmission of another, may decide to do so. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u196	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u197	Publicity of debates is not the business of the chairman or the bureau of the committee: it is the business of French citizens who must have permanent access to what parliamentarians say, to the answers they ask for, etc. Publicity of the debates is not the good will of the chairman of the committee – it would make no sense. The only argument that can be put against me is the lack of resources, which I can understand; But it is our duty to best allocate them. We believe that the publicity of the debates should be given the means to do so. The public has been attending our debates since Parliament's inception, since the Constituent. The same must be true of debates in committee, not only through an audiovisual retransmission, but also by a written record. It is essential if people are to be allowed to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u198	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u199	The aim here is to allow the audiovisual recording that goes hand in hand with the written record – and even if one appears to be more modern than the other, the written record is more effective when one wants to find specific elements. I would add, Mr rapporteur, that the right does not consist of saying:'may', but to say:'must'. The Rules of Procedure must therefore provide that the President "must" provide for the publicity of committee proceedings, in order to allow everyone to have access to the activities of Members. We are speaking in the name of the citizens and in their eyes. Let us not deprive ourselves of this view: use the traditional medium of writing and the more modern one of audiovisual.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u201	Let us be clear, Mr. Le Fur: the principle is the publicity of the debates. The only question here is how to make the work of the commissions accessible to the citizen – either by means of an audiovisual retransmission or by means of a written report; We also talked about sign language. There can therefore be no question of opacity. The discussions are held in private...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u202	It's rare!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u203	... when the chairman of the committee considers that they should not be given publicity. But the rule, as you know, is indeed the publicity of the debates,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u204	Well, let's apply the rule!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u205	... their openness to all citizens. We would only like to leave to the chairman of the committee the choice of how this advertising is ensured, whether it is an audiovisual retransmission, a written report or other means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u206	I have before me two amendments, Nos 305 and 835, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 305.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u207	There is good practice in the Law Committee: at least 48 hours before a hearing, the names of the invited persons are published, the topic on which they will speak and the place where the meeting will take place. It would be appropriate for this practice to be generalized to all committees, so that we have a reasonable time to be able to organize and participate in these hearings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u209	This is indeed a good practice, and I thank you for boasting of the management qualities of the Law Commission. It is, however, unique to many other committees, and it is only in a few exceptional cases that the information is given in a somewhat hasty manner. However, we intend to continue to follow the logic of giving the committee chairmen the freedom to organise their hearings – I do not know of any cases where a chairman is acting systematically, without prior notification. So let us not set a rule: good practices are already effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u210	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 835.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u211	It also aims to generalize a good practice of the Law Commission in order to make parliamentary work more transparent and effective. However, I imagine that the rapporteur's opinion will be similar to the one he has just given on the previous amendment. So I'm withdrawing mine to save us time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u212	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u213	The practice referred to by Mr Hetzel does not prevail for all committees. Some of the habits of the old world may hold us to heart, and we intend to be present in our constituencies at certain events. That is why I believe that the 48-hour deadline laid down in its amendment is a minimum. As you yourself said, Mr rapporteur, this is not the practice of all committees. This is not about the right of the chairman of the committee, but about the right of Members, so that they can organise themselves intelligently. This rule therefore deserves to be imposed on all commissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u214	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u215	Beyond the right of Members invoked by our colleague Di Filippo, there is also the question of the transparency of public life – which has been a recurring debate for several years and which we have addressed, as far as the elected representatives are concerned, in terms of the transparency of their interests and their heritage, and, as far as senior officials are concerned, through the law that we have just voted for. We must now deal with transparency in the way we work. We need to set the rule – even if most committees already apply it – that the list of hearings is published 48 hours before they are held. It's a necessity. One might very well have thought, according to your logic, Mr rapporteur, that it is "good practice" for Members to declare their interests but that there is no need to legislate on this matter... It is therefore not just a question of good practice, but a question of principle. We need – and the public must – to know how we work, who we audition, and that is enough in advance to be able to follow the debates with all the tools we have today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u216	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u217	I do not want the citizens who look at us to feel that the committees do not work in a transparent way. Their meetings are all broadcast live on the Assembly's website. The principle of transparency is absolutely respected, except once again when the closure is decided; and the principle that committee meetings are accessible to all Members is also respected. Transparency is a long-standing rule. The provisions you want to introduce were not included in the previous regulations for a simple reason: all have given commissions some freedom to decide how they will work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u218	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor to support Amendment No. 705.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u219	This amendment concerns "rapporteur hearings". They are, as you know, open to every member of the committee. But we sometimes have several meetings, several hearings on two different texts at the same time – and we do not have the gift of ubiquity. So far, there is no clear rule as to the possibility for our employees to attend these hearings. Sometimes their presence is allowed, sometimes it is not. The amendment seeks to clarify the conditions for access to these hearings for each text. You see that I am not going so far as to ask for a systematic authorization. On the other hand, things need to be clear so that we can organize ourselves to work on a text in substance. It happened to us all to learn that one of our collaborators had been denied the entrance to a room where one of these hearings was held, when they had on other occasions been able to attend similar work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u221	Unfavorable opinion. The bureau of each commission sets out internal rules of the game. For my part, I stress that if we adopt the motion for a resolution, all political groups will be represented in each of the committee offices – which is not an obligation until now. Therefore, if a real problem were to arise – and I have never heard that there has been one to date – it would be sufficient to refer it to the appropriate committee office, which will deal with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u222	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u223	If the problem is real, because none of us has the gift of ubiquity, we must also uphold the principles of responsibility and autonomy. Each commission is responsible for the organization of its work and can decide as it sees fit, with some autonomy from the rules. By greasing everything in the marble, we risk seeing the regulation lie down to infinity. In addition, if we want to resolve all the questions that may arise in advance, we risk producing an inescapable settlement that would leave us no room for manoeuvre. With regard to the subject that you are referring to, Mr Balanant, it seems to me that, overall, our operation today is rather satisfactory, even if a few small difficulties may have arisen. Each committee, according to its culture, history and procedure, which may vary from one committee to another, is able to answer questions on this important and very real subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u224	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u225	Once it is not customary, I agree absolutely with my colleague Erwan Balanant. I would like to take this opportunity to address the problem of the presence of parliamentary attachés in committee. In most committees, group parliamentary attachés may be present, not to represent their deputies, but to attend the debate when the latter are not able to do so. This is a privilege attached to groups whose non-attached Members do not benefit. For them, this is the cause of a real information deficit. When non-attached Members are unable to attend meetings of certain committees for reasons of time, they do not have the opportunity to send their MPs to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u226	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u227	I am insisting on this, because this is one of the major problems we are facing. It is not only a legal problem, but also an information problem. Very often, non-attached Members are misinformed about a number of the work that is taking place in our House, in particular those of the committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u228	I have before me three amendments, Nos 617, 549 and 698, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 617.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u229	It aims to restore fairness in favour of non-attached Members. It concerns their participation in the Conference of Presidents and the arrangements for appointing their representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u230	Amendments Nos 549 and 698 may be presented in a consolidated format. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u231	They aim at the same objective: the possibility for non-attached Members to be represented at the Conference of Presidents. It is always a matter of ensuring that these elected representatives are better informed, and that they are better involved in the life of our assembly. Amendment No 549 differs from Amendment No 698 on the one hand. While the first specifies that non-registered MPs determine between themselves the modalities for appointing their representatives, the second part of the principle that you would have agreed to abide by the rules of procedure of the Senate and that a delegate of non-registered MPs could de facto become a member of the Conference of Presidents,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u232	What is the Committee's opinion on the three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u233	Unfavorable opinion. The Conference of Presidents brings together the political groups. For the reasons I set out yesterday, I am opposed to the representation of the non-attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u234	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u235	Let me argue by adding two elements. On the one hand, this possibility is open to the Senate: non-registered senators participate in the Conference of Presidents. On the other hand, I would remind you that, despite their small numbers on the benches of this House, non-registered Members represent millions of voters. We ask to participate in the Conference of Presidents, but rest assured, we know how to stand! It is not to play the role of disruptive agents, but to participate, like other Members, in the life of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u236	[[Smile]] Since the Senate and the Assembly are separate chambers, one cannot be enough to inspire the other!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u237	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 662.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u238	For better information from all – this time, it is not just the non-attached – it aims to ensure that the Conference of Presidents establishes "an agenda for the review of texts for the next two months". Today, the Conference sets the agenda for the three weeks following its meeting – we receive this calendar in the form of a "green sheet" at the end of each of the weekly meetings. This three-week period seems too short for parliamentarians to be able to organize themselves, especially those who live far from Paris. I am, of course, thinking of our overseas colleagues, but not just because not all Members live in Paris at one hour: some are forced to take transport for four or five hours. It is difficult for them to organize their agenda in constituencies when they do not have enough elements to anticipate the future work of the Assembly. That is why I hope that the agenda will be set for a period of two months in partnership with the Government – I am well aware of the role played by the Government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u240	Unfavorable opinion. The Government is already forwarding to Parliament a provisional agenda for three months. As a member of the Conference of Presidents – I know, Mrs Ménard, that you do not attend – I can testify that the establishment of the agenda is a complex engineering because of the unpredictability of the debates. Their three-week organization is already a challenge. Each text, depending on the course of its consideration and the number of amendments to which it is subject, may call into question the general organization. Of course, I can only agree with the fact that the more we are warned in advance of the examination of a text, the better we can prepare for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u241	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u242	Our colleague was right to stress the importance of the role of the Government – and I am not aiming at the current government more than any other. The difficulty lies in Parliament's dependence on the Government, which has control over the agenda – our prerogatives are incidental in this matter. In the absence of a two-month agenda, as proposed in the amendment, which I find difficult to reconcile with the political reality and the reality faced by the executive, we could at least stick to the agenda established at each weekly meeting for three weeks without any change from one week to the next. Perhaps the Government's commitment over three weeks could be stronger than it is today, even if nothing can be engraved in the marble? It wouldn't be that bad already.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u244	Mr Christophe Euzet, first on Rule 7
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u245	Article 7, paragraph 1, on the agenda for the work of Parliament, provides that: "At the opening of the session and no later than 1 March, or after the formation of the Government, the Conference shall inform the Conference of matters which it intends to request to be included in the agenda of the Assembly and of the period envisaged for their discussion. » This issue that will probably not be passionate about the general public is absolutely essential to us. It corresponds to a very strong demand from all colleagues since the beginning of the legislature, regardless of the benches on which they sit. Once we are informed of the future work of the Assembly, we can set up working workshops on the expected texts and fact-finding missions at leisure. More generally, we will be able to best organize our work, which will be of better quality because it is less urgent. We can also better organize our agenda according to our respective imperatives and our desire to commit ourselves or not to a future text. [[Mr. Jean Terlier applauds]] Such a provision was already a substantial contribution to the proposed deferred constitutional review. We must be pleased, under constant constitutional law, that the reform of the regulation will make it possible to make immediate progress in this direction. If, under constant constitutional law, we cannot interfere with the priority agenda desired by the executive, we can look forward to being able to know immediately what we are going to be working on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u246	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u247	Article 7 allows us to look at the organization of our work, marked by some inconsistency. We have indeed the famous "green leaf" which indicates the agenda for three weeks. Its latest version, published today, after the Conference of Presidents, informs us about our work until 14 June. In addition, we have the organization of the discussion of the texts on the agenda for four weeks, published by the meeting department; The same deadline is reflected in the conclusions of the Conference of Presidents – so, let us recall, the "green paper" is still three weeks away. Finally, by reading the agendas published on the Assembly's website, you see, for example, that the Committee on Economic Affairs will meet on 18 and 19 June to discuss the energy and climate project. In other words, we have a five-week schedule for this committee. So we have programs that can cover three, four, five or sometimes even eight weeks, as the case may be. All this shows that there is an organizational problem. The colleagues who joined us two years ago, who previously worked in the private sector, know that, on strategic issues, companies usually have a three-month schedule. The least we can do on strategic topics, especially on key texts, would be to have three months of planning. That would allow us to organize ourselves a little, Mr. President. But we are not there, and the regulation you are proposing does not bring any improvement on this particular point, which I very much regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u249	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u250	Article 7 seeks to ensure better information to parliamentarians by the Government on the provisional agenda. A calendar would thus be presented twice per session in the Conference of Presidents. This is a good measure because we are not sufficiently informed upstream. We sometimes find on the "green sheet" that one text is on the Orders of the Day or we look in vain for the return of another from the Senate. To work well, we need to know the texts on the agenda at least two or three months in advance. Similarly, we must be assured that prior studies will be well communicated to us early enough, as the urgency does not allow for quality work. Personally, I would prefer that we have a shared calendar, adjusted in real time, rather than a dated letter that will be out of date as soon as an emergency hits our agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u251	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u252	The working group on the legislative procedure, the parliamentary organisation and the rights of the opposition, to which I belonged, and Mr Waserman, made a number of proposals which were partly adopted by the latter and by Mr Sacha Houlié, responsible for the text for our political group. Much of the discussion within the working group was devoted to the need for a more efficient procedure prior to bills, with greater predictability, which would also allow for a more adjusted prior assessment. It is true that, quite often, as previous speakers have already said, the timetable is clear a few weeks before a bill is introduced, which prevents good work from being done. Better predictability would allow for better consultation prior to the texts, and better work on the texts. Time allows us to better capture the substance of the texts and improve the quality of our work. Better time management across more weeks would increase the quality of the work of MPs and thus strengthen the National Assembly. It is in this sense that this article seems fundamental to the majority group. A timetable will facilitate the substantive work of Members, particularly with regard to evaluation, one of the foundations of our Assembly's tasks – I will return to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u253	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u254	I will repeat the remark made by the chairman of our group, Mr Chassaigne: there is necessarily a difficulty in discussing the settlement of our assembly before the constitutional reform, while, on the one hand, it depends on the Constitution. I know that we must start with something, but we would have liked to have been able to defend an amendment proposing, as we did in the working group and then in committee, that the parliamentary initiative of the opposition groups should be increased: instead of being entitled every year to only three sittings reserved for each of them under the parliamentary niche, i.e. one day, the number would be doubled. It is quite normal, from the moment we are in the opposition, not to have control over the bulk of the parliamentary initiative, but we also believe, as we have the legitimacy resulting from universal suffrage, that this reform of the Rules of Procedure would benefit from giving more room to the initiative of the opposition groups, in particular by increasing the number of parliamentary niches. I know that this is not in line with what the Constitution prescribes today with regard to the organisation of the agenda, and that is why our amendment, although defended in committee, was considered inadmissible for the public sitting, but I would like to take advantage of my speech on the article to share our proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u256	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u257	I would like to draw the attention of our Assembly to a subject that is of great interest to us all: the image that we refer to by our weak presence in the Chamber. We still have as many difficulties explaining that if we are not in session, it may be because we are in committee or in our ridings. After the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, the important votes will take place on Tuesday, which will show that even if the text was discussed in the middle of the night, many of us can vote on it personally. Nevertheless, I note that a motion for a resolution on the fight against anti-Semitism is on tomorrow's agenda, which has been expected for some time and should reach consensus, but which is not known when it will be voted on, perhaps in the evening, before Ascension... I think that this House will find it difficult to fill in.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u258	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The point is to intervene on section 7, Madam Member, not to ask questions about the use of time. Regulatory provisions already exist in this regard, and they still apply to date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u259	I could then make a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u260	[[Same movements]] You can do so if it is justified, but I would just remind you that speakers are right now having the floor to speak on the item, and not on anything else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u261	She gave an example of the need for a forward-looking legislative agenda, which is what the article is about, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u262	Please proceed, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u263	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I drew attention to a difficulty, namely what might happen tomorrow night and which could harm the image of our House, when I know that it is also your will that its image with public opinion reflects the real work of Members, and you tell me that I am out of the question... However, this is indeed a problem of settlement of the National Assembly! Allow me to convey to you all my apologies for the way in which you interrupt me and speak to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u264	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u265	Article 7 deals with the forecast programme. There is, of course, the Conference of Presidents, but when we ask the commissioners or administrators, we are told two or three months in advance when any text should pass, whereas it is not indicated in the "green sheet", which gives the agenda only three weeks in advance. There are therefore a number of insiders perfectly in the months ahead of the agenda. I'm going to be told that this information can be denied later. That is true, but it would still be good to have a forward-looking programme beyond the next three weeks. It could be reviewed – as is the case today for the "green leaf" when it is rectified. I propose that the Government commit itself to establishing working hypotheses, an opportunity for us to better prepare for this. I note that the information now available to insiders in this field is generally proven, but that all colleagues are not informed of it, which is not very good.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u266	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u267	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to return to a subject which has just been mentioned by Mr. Shortly after being mentioned by Mrs. Tamarelle-Verhaeghe. I would point out that in the constitutional revision there was a question of introducing a three-month timetable into the text, precisely because this provision would be constitutional. Let us agree that we were not able to discuss it for reasons that I am able to attribute to some of you in this House. And that is why we are now studying the reform of the regulation before that of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u268	Mr President, it was not us who revived the subject! Without any connection to article 7, you will have found it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u269	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] But no one who can avail himself of his own turpitudes will recognize that it is regrettable that we cannot go as far as we would have wanted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u270	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger – a last-minute registrant, like Mr Houlié, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u271	Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor for an intervention which will have a bearing on Article 7, since we still have the right to make speeches at the moment. I am somewhat surprised by the logic presented to us by the majority. Mr Houlié has just said that the latter would have wanted to do better in the context of the reform of the Constitution, but that it is not possible to go further in the context of the reform of the regulation, at the risk of not being in conformity with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u272	We can't! That would be contrary to the hierarchy of standards!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u273	I hear the reasoning, but for me there is a problem of consistency with what you are proposing: to inform the Conference of Presidents at least twice a session of the planned agenda is already better than what exists today,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u274	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u275	... but it will always be up to the Assembly to ask the Government to transmit the information to it. It is not much clearer with regard to constitutionality than to want to know the timetable three months in advance as we ask, a provision that would be clearer and more committed. However, it will still be necessary to explain to me how the logic of requesting information from the Government would be more constitutional because this request would be limited to twice a year – or more in the event of a change of Government – than if it were made every week, especially since the information would then be more up-to-date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u276	We come to the amendments. Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 292.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u277	This amendment aims to give the Assembly greater visibility of the legislative programme by proposing that the Prime Minister transmit "at the beginning of each quarter to the Conference of Presidents his updated legislative programme for the coming year", i.e. in a slippery manner. As many Members have said before me, there is a need for more visibility on this point. This would be indicative only and the amendment does not require a detailed agenda, but a quarterly planning. I think we could agree with this proposal from the working group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u279	I shall therefore also respond to Mr Schellenberger's statement. Minister Marc Fesneau has been in place for more than a year...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u280	Very good minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u281	He wasn't a year ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u282	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... a quarterly and detailed schedule of all incoming texts, available on the website under the heading "Government Agenda". I don't know if everyone measures change: that means that all Members can have a three-month vision of all the texts that are being considered by this House. This is one of the important government practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u283	That's not true! I'll explain why!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u284	With regard to the proposed amendment in the reform of the Regulation, it would be a six-month proposal. I would point out to Mr Schellenberger that this provision existed until 2009, and that it is proposed to reinstate it. One would therefore like to move from a vision to a vision of three months to a vision of six months – which would of course not be more imperative for the Government. As for the details of the organisation of the agenda, it is by the hand of the Conference of Presidents, which sets it for the next three weeks. The opinion on the amendment is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u285	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u286	Just two remarks. It is nevertheless surprising that in the Senate, the Conference of Presidents today offers a visibility of six weeks...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u287	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u288	There was no need for any constitutional revision to achieve this! Mr rapporteur, you say that we have a visibility of three months: but no, we do not. Can you tell me what the schedule for the special session will be? We will have to wait until June 15 to know what will happen from the first days of July! So don't tell us we have visibility at three months: it's not true! That is what we are proposing to introduce into the regulation! There is now a real problem with the organisation of legislative work for the special sessions, because our assembly has only a visibility over fifteen days. Do not sweep this difficulty with a back of your hand. I'm sorry, but don't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u289	I put the amendment to the vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u290	Mr President, I have asked for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u291	And the president also has a hard time seeing the left side of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u292	[[Laughs on various benches]] Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor. I am sure that will enlighten the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u293	Thank you for your kindness, dear President, but we are talking about an extremely important subject, because this opportunity for greater visibility would also be the opportunity for us to work better. I can see what is happening with the texts that we really have time to prepare: the rapporteur has time to do more hearings and the Commissioners have time to conduct them too, and even to organise a round table on the ground with business leaders and other local actors on the subject. This is the time we are asking for, knowing that the three slippery months are possible. Of course, there will sometimes be changes, but at least there will be predictability: this will allow us to work better. I am even convinced that this will reduce the number of amendments to be considered, because Members who table them at the last minute because they have received them from pressure groups or interest groups will probably no longer table them if they have had time to work well on the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u294	That's very fair! The Republican Group will vote for this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u295	Mr Habib, are you asking for the floor? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u296	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u297	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 37, 86 and 269. Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 37.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u298	It is only an editorial amendment, since the subject dealt with in this article falls under the second paragraph – not the third – of Article 48 of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u299	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 86.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u300	I do not want to say that our amendments are proof of the haste in which this reform of the Rules of Procedure was drafted,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u301	A little bit of the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u302	Of course, a little bit of the same. But here we give you, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the opportunity, O how exceptional,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u303	Hopefully!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u304	[[Smile]] ...to adopt amendments from the opposition. I think you are obliged to do so, but what a satisfaction it is for us to see the rapporteur approve of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u305	What an emotion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u306	The eloquence of Mr Di Filippo will contribute to this, since I give him the floor to support Amendment No 269.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u307	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this is a great moment of emotion for me: for the first time since I was a Member of Parliament, I may have the opportunity to see one of my amendments pass. It probably won't happen every day! I therefore count on you to adopt this amendment, which is indeed drafting. The subject covered by this Article falls within the second paragraph of Article 48 of the Regulation, not the third. As this is crucial for the overall balance of the text, I hope you will show a constructive spirit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u308	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] You know the Ascension is only Thursday! What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u309	[[Smile]] I am terribly sorry to be obliged to make you lose your illusions: the writing of the article is accurate. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion. If the text of the article had involved a material error, it would have been with great pleasure that we would have given those amendments a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u310	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u311	The discussion on this subject would last for hours, but I assure you that the writing of the article is correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u312	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u313	If the rapporteur's point is correct, it means that Rule 49(2) remains. Under this paragraph, speaking time is, for general discussions, divided among groups according to their numerical importance. However, the reform concerning the general discussion you are proposing in Article 8 provides, on the contrary, that each group should have the same speaking time in the general discussion. If you do not adopt our amendment, then Article 8 of this text will be in contradiction with Rule 49(2) of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u314	This is Article 48, not Article 49!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u315	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u316	You were talking about article 49!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u317	Look at paragraph 2!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u318	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 701.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u319	It is intended to draft Rule 48(3) of our Rules of Procedure as follows: "Each year, at the opening of the session, the Government shall submit to Parliament the timetable for the texts it intends to propose for consideration by the National Assembly during the session. » It is clear what the blind spot is in this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which aims to sever a little more the rights of parliamentarians without obliging the Government in any way. This is not insignificant, because the relationship between executive and legislative powers is unbalanced. That the Government communicates to Parliament a timetable for the texts would be the least of all! If he is not able to do so, it is that the problem is even more serious than it seems. Adopting this amendment would be in the honor of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u321	The planned timetable which the Government communicates to Parliament every three months, which is published and which is available to all Members of Parliament, is an indicative timetable which, as you know, our Rules of Procedure cannot be binding. The detailed three-week schedule, which was established at the Conference of Presidents, was discussed earlier. The details of the organization of its meetings are therefore decided by the Assembly. The subject of special sessions is the prerogative of the President of the Republic, and the date on which he can use this right does not depend on our rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u322	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u323	Mr rapporteur, that is not exactly what this amendment is about. During the renovation of the functioning of the National Assembly launched by the President of Rugy, I participated in the group dealing specifically with these subjects, the title of which escapes me. His work had shown that all deputies wanted the relationship between the Government and Parliament to become more fluid and that the visibility given to parliamentarians, and thus to the French, of the legislative programme envisaged by the Government was improved. It would therefore be regrettable that, in the context of the implementation of the renovation projects, no changes were made to the rules of procedure of the National Assembly requiring the Government to take more account of the need for anticipation of parliamentarians and, through them, of the French. In this connection, I would like to point out that I am currently participating in meetings with French people quite far from democracy, i.e. young people, especially high school students. When they ask me, as is often the case, what texts will be examined by the National Assembly in the weeks or months to come, I remain coi because I am unable to answer them. It seems to me that we owe to our fellow citizens the inclusion in this amendment of a rule requiring the Government to give us guidance on the texts that it intends to submit to the National Assembly, even if it subsequently amends them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u324	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u325	Let me read out a passage from Rule 48 of the current Rules of Procedure, which concerns the Conference of Presidents: "The Conference of Presidents shall, at the beginning of each eight-week sequence, draw up an indicative breakdown of the various priorities laid down by the Constitution in terms of the agenda". I have no doubt that the Conference of Presidents will draw up this indicative allocation, but the basic Member has no access to it! I searched for it in vain on the National Assembly website. The least we can do would be to make this work carried out by the Conference of Presidents accessible to both our citizens and Members of Parliament. That would be an improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u326	I call Mrs Mirallès to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u327	It is intended that information on future texts and their period of discussion be given at least twice a year. Such predictability is in fact consubstantial to legislative work, and the drafting of article 48 must leave open the possibility that the provision of such information may be made in a more timely manner than twice a session.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u328	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u329	This is an essential topic, which has been discussed extensively in the preliminary working groups. For the sake of clarity of our debates, I repeat that we currently have an indicative schedule which is systematically communicated more than a year in advance by the Minister, and a timetable which, every three months, presents the texts to be examined monthly. We want the regulation to provide that this forecast schedule is now communicated six months in advance, however the Government is not obliged to meet this request. In reply to Mr Viala, I would say that this text proposing a six-month schedule represents progress. As for the detailed three-month schedule, it has been a reality for more than a year and a half. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u330	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u331	I would like to go back to the words of our colleague and friend Patrick Hetzel. At the beginning of each eight-week sequence, the Conference of Presidents shall draw up an indicative breakdown of the priorities set out in the Constitution for the agenda. However, no communication of this distribution is made to our colleagues. Mr President, since you are presiding over this conference, as you explain? I would like our colleagues to be kept informed because, although the Government can make changes to its timetable, it would be a valuable tool for organizing our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u332	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u333	I withdraw the amendment. However, I do not believe that the "a minimal" precision that I wanted to bring goes against your remarks. This addition would not change much...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u334	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u335	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 249 and 306. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 249.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u336	I note that all the benches in the Chamber are concerned about the predictability of parliamentary work. I have noted that six-month predictability is proposed by the rapporteur, and we welcome it. According to what has been said in the course of the debates, three-month predictability would already exist – it is my purpose to use the conditional, for I have never seen it materially. Mr rapporteur, you must assure us that this predictability will not be restricted to the members of the Conference of Presidents, but will be brought to the attention of all Members and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u337	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 306.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u338	I agree with Mr Cécile Untermaier that it is necessary to improve the organisation of our work. Of course, the Senate is one thing, and the Assembly is another. However, we can draw on good practices in the upper chamber. Currently, to get information on the upcoming calendar of the National Assembly, you must visit the Senate website! It already states that, at the special session, there will be a new reading and final readings, or the reading of the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the bill for a school of trust, which has just been adopted by the Senate. It is still incredible that, to know what texts will be examined here, we have to go to the Senate side! I repeat, I fully understand that the Government is making changes to the timetable that it communicates to us, but I do not see why the National Assembly could not adopt the good practices of the Senate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u339	All right! That makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u340	... subject to final acceptance by the Conference of Presidents. There is nothing against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u341	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u342	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u343	As the subject of this discussion is very important, I want to clarify things, so that we all have them in mind. In line with the working groups, this text reintroduces a six-month predictability that is requested from the Government without being of a mandatory nature, since a regulation does not permit it. Mrs Untermaier, the three-month forecast of the Government's texts is published, within the hours or half-day following her communication to the Conference of Presidents, on the website available to all Members of Parliament, under the heading "Provisional agenda of the Government". The details of the texts have been published for a year or a year and a half. I therefore invite you to consult this section. With regard to the organization of weeks, which Mr. Hetzel referred to, we have a timetable which sets out the organization of the Government from week to week – weeks of monitoring, etc. – as well as the details of the organisation at three weeks with the "green sheet", also available on the website. I hope this is clear to everyone. This text requests that the timetable be transmitted every six months. Currently, it is communicated by Marc Fesneau every three months, as you can see if you visit the Assembly's website, and the "green sheet" is published every three weeks. Perhaps we should give more publicity to these tools, which are relatively numerous and of which we obviously do not all know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u344	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u345	In the Senate, the Conference of Presidents meets not every week, but every two or even every three weeks. On the other hand, the equivalent of the green sheet, which is established at the end of the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, has a six-week schedule. What would prevent us from doing the same? On the other hand, our regulation now contains an article 48 which provides for the need to ensure greater visibility, particularly over a period of two months: why do we not have access to it? Again, these are specific, simple questions, which are all areas of concern: it would be desirable, if we were to have a calm debate, for them to get answers. But you don't answer it. Why should the House stick to three weeks? Why don't you go for six weeks, like in the Senate? Why do we not have on the site the eight weeks provided for in Article 48 of our Rules of Procedure? Moreover, why don't we communicate more widely about information that is already provided for in our regulation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u346	[[Smile]] He's in shape.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u347	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u348	I hear the rapporteur's arguments, and his good faith is not at stake. In a bicameral system, the two chambers may have slightly different regulations, but the raw material of their activity is the same. We all need visibility, and I do not see in the name of what, in its work, in its way of hearing and organizing parliamentary life, the Senate would benefit from an advantage over the House. Nor do I see why, when we are elected by direct universal suffrage, we should have to adapt to the somewhat chaotic cycle of government decisions or various and varied hazards. I see no controversial intention in my remarks: I understand very well that an agenda can be changed and that it is necessary to adapt the agenda. [[Smile]] Thanks to Patrick Hetzel, I discovered a few minutes ago that senators had very useful information, and I do not see why the National Assembly, on this point, would be gathering and doing less well than the Senate. We should put a point of honor to do as well, in the interest of balance between the chambers. If we share the same dreams and objectives, I would not like us to sit in totally separate rooms: it is not good for cohabitation or for the development of a long common life, without going so far as to imagine that it is languorous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u349	When the reform of our rules is adopted, we will be well ahead of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u350	I call Mrs Mirallès to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u351	Looks like he's satisfied. I just wanted to insert, in paragraph 3, the words "Presidents" after the word "Conference". If my information is correct, as soon as the word "conference" begins with a capital, it can only refer to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u352	You're making the requests and the answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u353	If you confirm this to me, Mr rapporteur, I shall withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u355	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Favourable. Indeed, the sentence in question is not understandable. The Conference of Presidents is sometimes referred to only by the words "the Conference". In this case, then, reference is made to "cases", which is not clear. Your correction, dear colleague, makes the wording very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u356	[[Smile]] We should have advised Mr. Di Filippo to drop him off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u357	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 307.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u358	He proposed that the Conference of Presidents should inform all members of the national representation on the agenda and timetable set by the Government. If this information is transmitted to the Conference of Presidents, it would be desirable for the Conference of Presidents to communicate it to Members, who are not aware of it, which raises some organisational problems, particularly when it is necessary to hold hearings. The adoption of this amendment would therefore contribute to improving parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u359	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u360	Your amendment is quite satisfied: everything decided or communicated by the Government at the Conference of Presidents is available on the website, following the path "Home", "The Conference of Presidents" and "Summary of conclusions". It is not a government document or a decision of the Conference of Presidents that is not disseminated to all MPs – and more broadly, indeed – through the Assembly's website. Amendment No 307 is therefore satisfactory, and I ask you to withdraw it. Otherwise, the commission would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u361	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 308.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u362	For the sake of clarity, organization and transparency of our work, this amendment proposes to enrich the famous green paper: it proposes that the Conference of Presidents publish its decisions and the agenda proposed by the Government. This, too, would allow for greater visibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u363	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u364	We have already had this debate, so I am not going to take it back. The committee's opinion is unfavourable. The Green Sheet is available on the website and therefore accessible to all Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u365	I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u366	The aim of this amendment is simply to expand the space available to the opposition during the weeks of scrutiny: from one to two sittings and from one to two votes. When we begin the examination of Article 8, we will shift from parliamentary work under the sign of expression, of discussion of articles and of the defence of amendment to work that will be subject to change and change, since its priority will be the evaluation and control of public policies. Therefore, it seems to us normal to give the opposition elected representatives the opportunity to move from one sitting to two. This amendment corresponds, moreover, to reflections which have been made even by Members of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u367	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u368	While I fully understand the meaning of your amendment, the committee is nevertheless against it. Some weeks are sanctified, and groups have the right to draw. Today our assembly has eight groups, so there are eight drawing rights. Allowing sixteen drawing rights in the same week would not change things so much. Once again, if time is sanctified, we can organize it. I will follow up on an amendment to provide more flexibility for groups on how they can design this week's monitoring.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u369	Amendment No 428 by Mr Stéphane Peu is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u370	I'm asking for it to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the commission would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u371	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 111 and 311. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 111, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 909.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u372	In theory, if the regulations are applied to the letter, the control weeks can only relate to reports, including assessments. However, they must also be able to deal with topics freely chosen by the groups, since that is the practice today. This amendment proposes that the regulation should be adapted accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u373	Mr Patrick Hetzel's identical amendment No 311 is being defended. The rapporteur, Mr Sylvain Waserman, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on the identical amendments and to support sub-amendment No 909.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u374	In 2014, the following rule was laid down: only on the basis of reports is the week of review debated. It was a way of valuing parliamentary work. It must be noted, however, that this rule has not been respected. On the other hand, this practice is inspiring, as it makes sense to base our discussions on reports. We therefore chose, in consultation with the Vice-Presidents – I consulted with a Vice-Chair of the Evaluation and Monitoring Committee, as well as Mr Juanico, who had been involved, at the time, in this request made in 2014 – and on the basis of a fairly broad consensus, to change, as you propose, the subject of the debates without a vote or of the question sessions which should focus on the conclusions of a report. This opens the possibility that they may not commit themselves on the basis of these conclusions. However, such a provision reaffirms that it is logical and consistent to base these debates on reports and on our parliamentary work. I do not know if this solution satisfies you, but it is in my opinion the best: we remove the binding aspect while reaffirming that it is still a priority. The committee is therefore in favour of the amendments, subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u375	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u376	I agree that the amendment should be so under-amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u377	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u378	I agree with the rapporteur: it seems to me very important that this priority task of the National Assembly, namely evaluation and monitoring, is not only a vain word. While in practice it has been realized that this week of evaluation and monitoring has not been based on reports, it seems to me very important that substantive reflection be carried out by all partners on this mission of the National Assembly, which should be a priority. We must base our discussions on substantive work and not stick to political positions that are insufficiently founded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u379	Amendment No 682 by Mrs Mathilde Panot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u380	Amendment No 246 by Mrs Marietta Karamanli is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u381	So I'm asking for it to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the commission would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u382	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 314.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u383	It would seem appropriate to hold a debate in the National Assembly prior to each summit of la francophonie.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u384	Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u385	Of course, we would leave it to the Conference of Presidents to lay down its terms. This would give national representation the opportunity to discuss the Francophonie. [[Exclaims on several benches of the LR and LT groups. – Marc Le Fur applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to force your hand, but if you reject such an amendment, it will mean that you despise the Francophonie, which I do not imagine for a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u386	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u387	You know, Mr. Hetzel, our attachment to the Francophonie. I'm not going to pick up the sting you sent, which is unfounded. My unfavorable opinion is based not on a lack of interest in la francophonie, but on the decision of the Constitutional Council of 24 June 2010, which prohibits the regulation from imposing a debate on our assembly. Such a provision would therefore be censored by the Constitutional Council. Having said that, I strongly reaffirm the interest of all Members in la francophonie.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u388	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u389	I doubt that my amendment poses a constitutional problem. We are national representation, so I do not see what constitutional rule could prevent us from addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u390	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor to support Amendment No 808.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u391	As a result of the 2009 amendment, the Rules of Procedure require opposition or minority groups to submit their proposals for the agenda of the meetings of the day reserved for them under article 48, paragraph 5, of the Constitution at least 21 days before the date fixed for those meetings. This delay may appear too long. The uncertainties on the parliamentary agenda require a little flexibility: the groups cannot foresee three weeks in advance which subjects they would like to address as a matter of priority on this day. A period of seven clear days before the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, during which the agenda of the meetings reserved for opposition or minority groups is set, will allow the latter to retain control of their work. This amendment is in line with this motion for a resolution, which aims to strengthen the rights of opposition or minority groups. In return for this measure, which will enable the said groups to exercise greater control over their work, it will be proposed that rule 91 of the Rules of Procedure should retain the possibility of adopting procedural motions on these reserved days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u392	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u393	Moving from twenty-one to seven days seems to me too ambitious, because the rapporteur would not have time to do his job. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u394	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u395	Nor are we in favour of this amendment. From the beginning, we have been defending the opposite logic: we believe that it takes more time to examine the texts and go to the bottom of things. We must not only vote for laws of circumstance or topicality, but above all for perennial rules, which are intended to be time-bound, measured and thought-provoking. The legislative proposals discussed within the framework of the parliamentary niches are not the appropriate framework for addressing current issues: questions to the Government and oral questions without debate provide us with sufficient space to make politics with the news. When we legislate, we must take time: even in a parliamentary niche, the text adopted by the House must have been worked out seriously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u396	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 230 and 310. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 230.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u397	The IUD Group, the independent group, believes that the speaking time in the House that this reform of the Rules of Procedure will save money must be given back to Parliament. The number of days of parliamentary initiative – the so-called "niches" – that allow the debate to take place on texts from Members and help strengthen Parliament must be increased, especially if no procedural motion can be tabled any more. We therefore request that the number of niche days available to each opposition or minority group be increased from one to three per session. This is a fundamental measure: we know that it falls within the scope of the Constitution and therefore cannot be adopted here, but we want to be certain that this subject will be dealt with in the context of the future constitutional review. In the meantime, at least each group must be able to spread its three niche sessions over the year instead of seeing them concentrated on a single day, as is the case today. The niche sessions should be available for distribution throughout the session, not over the same month.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u398	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 310.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u399	I'm going in the same direction as Mrs. Descamps. How can the relationship between the executive and the legislature be rebalanced? We need to be more able to pass legislation, because it is an opportunity to show that there are alternatives to certain government directions. It is important that these discussions can take place. I will be told that constitutional provisions are opposed to an increase in the number of niche days, but you have done things backwards: we should have, as a first step, discussed the constitutional review,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u400	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u401	...and then, in a second phase, to address the issue of the reform of the regulation. We would then have had overall consistency. Your mode of operation is quite baroque, and I regret it, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u402	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u403	As regards the constitutional obstacles to the adoption of these amendments, the answer is in the question. As for the possibility of distributing niche sessions over a longer period of time, it does not seem relevant to me. Today, the Conference of Presidents can split a day of niches over a month. Splitting over a period of more than one month, or even over a year, does not seem desirable to me. Unfavorable opinion. In practice, the next step will be the discussion of the constitutional review.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u404	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 113 and 312, on the additional article after Article 7. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u405	This is an amendment of consistency with Amendment No 124, which Jean-Christophe Lagarde defended last night. We want the Conference of Presidents to set up dedicated and predictable slots for solemn votes, during which no committee meeting could be held – which was unfortunately denied to us last night.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u406	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 312.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u407	The aim of this amendment is to ensure that solemn votes are scheduled in advance. This practice may develop, since the President of our House has decided to go in this direction, but it should be included in our Rules of Procedure. This would help to give a better picture of our parliamentary work, rather than to organise votes at times when the House is not full.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u408	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u409	These amendments are fully satisfied with an amendment that we have adopted in committee. Indeed, we have introduced in the text an article 13 bis which allows the Conference of Presidents to dissociate explanations of vote from the public vote on the whole text, which could, for example, be held on Tuesday after questions to the Government. Since the two identical amendments are satisfied, I request that they be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u410	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u411	Last night, Mr rapporteur, I did not understand what prevented us from including in our Rules of Procedure the ban on holding a committee meeting when the committee is seized of the substance of the text which has been debated at the same time in the Chamber or at the same time as a solemn vote. You say that it is common sense. Of course, but in some situations common sense may be stunned, forgotten, for reasons that are often legitimate. But the demands of transparency and assiduity imposed on us today by our fellow citizens oblige us to make this rule an imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u412	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 757 and 774. I call Mr Sebastien Leclerc to support Amendment No. 757.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u413	This amendment by Daniel Fasquelle is intended to supplement Article 48 of the Rules of Procedure with a paragraph which reads as follows: "During the public sitting, the National Assembly shall, through its communication tools, make a continuous and systematic reference to the holding of meetings of the Standing Committees and to the texts examined by them. In this way, our institution will be as transparent as possible and will ensure the best possible flow of information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u414	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 774.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u415	First of all, Mr President, let me welcome your recent initiative to hold the solemn votes on Tuesday, without any explanation of vote. This practice is interesting: it allows us to progress and save time. Amendment No 774 is identical to the one just defended by Mr Leclerc. In fact, committee meetings are held at the same time as the public meeting. It is not desirable, but it is so. There are even times when this situation is almost inevitable. I am thinking of the budgetary debates: in the autumn the Committee on Finance is working very hard, and when a non-financial debate is held in the Chamber, it is obliged to meet. Inevitably, then, commission meetings are held during the public session – it's hard to understand for outsiders, but that's how it is. However, it must be said very clearly and put forward this information, so that our fellow citizens understand that if, at some point, we are few in the Chamber, we are still working in other places, whether in committee or in study groups, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u416	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u417	Every five or six weeks, I welcome a group of visitors from my constituency or elsewhere, and I explain to them the situation, which they understand very well. It is our educational duty to explain this, so that both of us know that, when we are not in the Chamber, we are sometimes at work, in committees or in study groups...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u418	Sometimes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u419	... for some of us and for our group in particular, believe me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u420	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u421	These two identical amendments are fully satisfied. You are asking in some way for our citizens to be informed in real time of all the meetings. The Assembly's website not only makes it possible to display, for a given week, all the committee meetings planned, but also to download them on our Members' agendas – I don't know if you are using this feature...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u422	It's not for us, it's for third parties!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u423	This information is fully available to third parties. Go to the website! I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; If they don't, I'll give them an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u424	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u425	Mr rapporteur, I am a little disappointed by your answer. We're not talking about the same thing. Of course, the information on meetings held in our assembly is public, as it is on the website. I hope, moreover, that by the end of the review of this text, you will find other answers than "Go to the website". For us Members, this is perfectly acceptable, but unfortunately, we are increasingly responding to our fellow citizens. The Members we are can hear your answer, because it is our job and the website of the House is a tool that we must master, but for our fellow citizens, this constant response is a little more annoying. I shall return to the amendments. We agree that the information is available, but we now call for it to be disseminated through the public meeting communication tools. One might very well have, in real time, embedded in the video of the session, information about the concurrent meetings and the topics addressed therein. What is terrible is the dissemination of our debates in a sparse Chamber. When you see this, you don't understand! We do not perceive that at the same time, other things are happening in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u426	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u427	We therefore ask you to include in the video of the session information that other work is being done at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u428	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u429	You'd like to see a sort of headband scroll, like on BFM TV's pictures. I am not sure that this falls within the scope of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, this is a concern that the Bureau can address, if it can ease the trade. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u430	Mr President, this confirms the idea that you should have sat on the benches of the House! The video portal on the Assembly's website is quite well done. It gives access to the session and the various meetings of the commissions, as well as to the program of the day: an Internet user who consults this part of the site sees that we are working. Of course, as the President has just said, this is probably not a matter of the Rules of Procedure: it is no less true that it seems an excellent idea to put on the screen, scrolling in the way of the banners of an information channel, the mention of the meetings taking place at the same time as the public sitting. For example, even when television channels retrieved our video stream and broadcast information later, for example the next day in the 1 p.m. newspaper, saying that there was not a big world in the Chamber, we would see, for example, that a meeting of the Law Committee was being held at the same time and that the Finance Committee was also working. It is only about optimizing the video flow that we provide to citizens and television channels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u431	It'll be strange when there's nothing! Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u432	We touch there at the heart of what makes ordinary anti-parliamentarianism. In front of a photo of our Chamber, we wonder what Members are doing and where they are. The amendment is – forgive me, ladies and gentlemen – poorly drafted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u433	No! It's very well written!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u434	It would have to be advertised outside. In this regard, thank you, Mr President, for telling us that the Bureau could deal with this issue, because this seems to me to be the most useful way to combat this anti-parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u435	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 239 and 782. I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 239.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u436	First and foremost, there is a lack of impact assessment. During our committee work and yesterday defending a motion of rejection, I recalled a very painful situation that I experienced: in an impact study that directly affected my constituency, the territory where I live, where I was mayor for nineteen years and president of a community of communes for twenty-five years, it could be said that at the end of the application of the law in question, which dealt with hydrocarbons, 300 people would be affected by the decision presented. In fact, the number of persons concerned was 9,000 in my constituency and 20,000 in Béarn. When I asked the Department of the Environment why this figure of 300 was written, it was admitted that we were wrong. All powers and majorities, whatever they may be, have experienced the same difficulties. We have a real problem with impact assessments. We therefore propose to set up, within a collegial and bipartisan framework, an evaluation mission that would not be a subterfuge intended to burden our work – on the contrary! – but which would aim to give us all a kind of shared photograph, allowing the rapporteurs of the various texts and the committees concerned to engage calmly in the debate. Otherwise, we feel that the diagnosis has not been established and that it needs to be corrected throughout the debate, which is detrimental to the quality of our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u437	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 782.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u438	I would like to return once again to evaluation and monitoring, which for me is a major concern – which can be understood, since I am chair of the evaluation and oversight committee. In fact, this assessment and monitoring mission seems to me to be a priority in the work of our Assembly. Indeed, the first legislator is the Government, and our major role is to assess and monitor that its policy and legislative work are fair and can be validated. The amendment therefore proposes that, for each bill, a pre-assessment mission be set up, which would be broader than that of the impact assessment alone, and which would be in line with the previous amendments on the timetable. For Members to be able to carry out such a task, sufficient time must be available. It must therefore be planned before the bill is introduced in the Assembly. Such a timetable would have made it possible to put this provision in place. I have discussed this with the rapporteur and, in fact, this amendment is a little ambitious, because it is not certain that the House has the means to carry out a pre-assessment mission on all the bills. However, it must be recognized that committees often face the difficulty of reviewing texts and that this lack of substantive work may once again promote ideological positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u439	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u440	You raise a major point here: the more we work upstream, especially on impact assessment, the better our legal quality will be. We are increasingly convinced of this and things are progressing. This motion for a resolution represents a major step forward from our previous practices, because we will systematically have an implementing co-rapporteur, who will be from the opposition and appointed immediately. It is therefore the role of the rapporteur – and now of the implementing co-rapporteur, who will be appointed very early – to carry out an evaluation, which is not limited to the impact assessment, because it can be broader. Several committees have decided to go even further than the mere work of the rapporteurs. This is for example the case of the Law Committee, or the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, with regard to CETA, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, had asked for the impact assessment to be reworked and did so very upstream. I therefore understand these two amendments, but what they propose is fully within the remit of the rapporteurs – and now, with the progress that this text is making, the implementing co-rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u441	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u442	These considerations regarding the role of enforcement co-rapporteurs seem to me important, and even essential, in our way of preparing for, voting for and monitoring the implementation of the law. However, there is still a taboo in this area, which we will have to raise as we discuss it, when we come to the articles that will make us enter into the hard part: that of the means. The fact that there are co-rapporteurs for implementation is certainly a good thing – I myself have been, very recently, appointed in these functions by the Law Committee for a text – but the question of the means we have to carry out this mission is much more vague, and it must be one of our concerns today. What means will we have, as co-rapporteurs for implementation, to monitor the implementation of a text?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u443	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u444	As a result of these exchanges, particularly those with the rapporteur, and in the hope that, culturally at least, things will be built up and that the committees themselves will be able to offer assessment solutions, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u445	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u446	For our part, we do not withdraw ours, because we are really at the heart of the subject. If we want the House to function well, it must be able to really appreciate the work ahead of the project. There is one word for this: the impact assessment, which has been put in place and whose major role is recognized constitutionally by an organic law. Among the items and standards to be discussed is the full range of criteria for assessing the quality of the text to be proposed for discussion. It is indeed necessary to assess the existing legislation, the European texts and the effects that legislative decisions can have on businesses – because we do not want to increase the administrative burden on companies. We have a tool that we leave aside, while the Council of State very regularly denounces shortcomings in this area. The National Assembly must be at the rendezvous of its history with regard to these impact studies, and must compel the Government, by setting in motion the co-rapporteur for implementation, to have an impact assessment which the administration usually drafts after the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u447	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u448	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u449	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u450	Ladies and gentlemen, this reform should help to create a link of trust between citizens and elected representatives. We would have to seize this text to respond to the uncertainties – let us call them so – expressed for several years already, and with even more intensity in recent months as regards the involvement of the elected representatives of universal suffrage. But this requires the expression of as many opinions as possible. The general discussions make it possible to defend all the currents of thought present in the National Assembly; they are an opportunity to point out advances such as the dysfunctions of a text and to express the differences of appreciation that are natural in a democracy. This moment in the House is an opportunity for all points of view to express themselves in length, not for the pleasure of making it last, but because we must feed the debate on texts that we are considering for several days or even weeks. It would therefore be too simple to want to shorten the time for debates on issues that are often complex. It should also be remembered that these general discussions are the means of being heard for minority groups, opposition groups and non-attached people: that each elected official can speak is the very essence of the legislative debate. In principle, reducing these statements from ten minutes to five minutes seems to us unjustified and detrimental to the quality of the parliamentary debate. This is in line with yesterday's discussion of the desirable number of groups in the National Assembly. I say to you: democracy does not gain anything to reduce the diversity or the exposure time of opinions. We have proposed a compromise in committee which, depending on the importance of the text, allows for a speaking time of five to ten minutes. We are convinced that this solution is appropriate for today's debate; That is why we are resubmitting this proposal in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u451	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u452	This very important article aims to limit the speaking time in the general debate, except in the scheduled legislative time procedure, to only one speaker per group and one non-attached Member, for five minutes, regardless of the numerical importance of the group. This is tantamount to denying the very role of the Member of Parliament, the representative of the Nation, by preventing him from living outside his political group. Sometimes, on texts, at least on the benches of the Republicans, opinions are divided; We do not all agree and that is what makes the debates rich. To give the floor only to one speaker, and for only five minutes, will prevent the plurality of expressions, which is detrimental to the quality of our debates and to the enrichment of the texts. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Since 2017, with the explosion in the number of groups, speaking time has already been very limited in general discussion. You can imagine that we will be fighting on this article, the restriction you are proposing is, in our view, disproportionate. That is why, if things do not move, we will oppose the adoption of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u453	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u454	[["That's right! » on the benches of the LR group]] To go in the same direction, I would say that we are dealing with an essential aspect, which was pointed out by some colleagues, in particular David Habib, who, in committee, had insisted on this issue. With this article, you want to muzzle the opposition and above all create something very problematic: I will give you two illustrations. First of all, the majority group has the opportunity, in the Conference of Presidents, to decide what the time to speak will be: we can see what the risk is. When we reduce the opposition's speaking time, what happens? The discussion is held outside Parliament. We will therefore not have won anything, because the debates will take place elsewhere, in front of the media and social networks, leading to a weakening of Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Moreover, what an idea to want to limit one speaker per group! You have to be from the Republic on the move to imagine this! We are not monolithic blocks! When I came to the legislative election two years ago, the Republican logo appeared on my poster because it is necessary to be clear to our fellow citizens. But I always express myself here in my soul and conscience,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u455	And in shades!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u456	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...as all MPs do. To reduce the discussion to one speaker per group is singularly baroque and very revealing of the way in which this majority envisages parliamentary work. We see it well: there is a great leader, Jupiter, and only one expression of speech. That is not how we view parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u457	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u458	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Because it is no longer a Parliament, by proceeding in this way, we are moving – and I am weighing my words – towards a dictatorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u459	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u460	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u461	I agree with my colleague Hetzel. The general discussion looks like a simple style exercise since the examination of texts began on Mondays in a sparse Chamber. However, it is important because it allows Members who do not sit on the committee on the merits to get into the bath, to understand the ins and outs of the text, to perceive its limitations or difficulties. In order for it to fulfil its role, diverse and pluralistic opinions must be expressed, and freedom of speech must be full and complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u462	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u463	Within a group of 100 Members, it is normal and even rather healthy that we do not have one and the same perception of things. The general discussion is not an explanation of vote or a summary of the debates, on the contrary: it must be broad so that we do not miss important issues. How to identify a text of more than a hundred articles in five minutes? It's impossible, unless you want to muzzle the deputies. We are therefore opposed to this limitation, which will undermine the understanding of the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u464	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u465	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Article 8 represents one of the central proposals of the text. It concerns, on the one hand, the general discussion of a text and, on the other, the planned legislative time. Today, the discussion of a text does not seem satisfactory, for two reasons: firstly, because the succession of many speakers creates a tunnel effect that unnecessarily prolongs the parliamentary phase, delaying the decisive stage of consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u466	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] That's democracy, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u467	You who are sensitive to freedom of expression, do not cover the voice of the speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u468	We just want to enlighten him, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u469	You have the floor, Mrs Guerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u470	Thank you! Secondly, because the proliferation of expressions undermines the readability of our debates and the clarity of the word for the citizen. We therefore propose that the number of speakers in the general discussion should be set at one speaker per group and one Member who is not registered, and that the time allowed for interventions should be reduced to five minutes per group. I would like to point out that the Conference of Presidents will be able to increase the duration of the general discussion on certain texts, if it considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u471	She'll never do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u472	The aim is therefore to lighten the general discussion, while preserving the rights of the opposition. We have chosen to fluidise the debates so that Members can have more time to speak and defend their amendments. This article therefore contributes fully to the quality of legislative work; That is why I shall vote in favour of him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u473	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u474	More and more often, especially during this legislature, the general discussion is similar to a form of tunnel, in which there are many repetitions with the examination in committee. This lengthens the examination of the texts more than reason, without the contribution being very concrete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u475	Speak for yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u476	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u477	A rationalisation of the procedure is necessary; He was therefore pleased that the President and the majority had seized the matter. It is proposed to limit speaking to five minutes per group in some cases: this will help make our discussions more effective, perhaps even more fluid. Flexibility is needed, since the Conference of Presidents will be able to increase the duration of the general discussion on certain texts if it considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u478	He's still got some of Walker's hints!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u479	Perhaps it would have been necessary to give veto power to the opposition groups, but the reform appears to be generally balanced as there are many possibilities to express itself on a text, including through the defence of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just spoken of dictatorship: please, we are in France! You have to weigh his words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u480	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u481	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Five minutes of discussion is still far from a dictatorship! Those who live abroad in countries with dictatorships look at us: a little decency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u482	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u483	It is true that the general discussion may seem to us long, tedious, boring, especially when it is the others who speak, but it is nevertheless necessary. It may have to be reduced, but in this case it is reduced a little too much, Mr President! Moreover, we create false equality, equality between groups: that means nothing, equality between groups! It is equality between Members that must be respected! You want to give the same speaking time to a group like ours, with 105 members, as to another group with barely more than 15 members: it is quite abnormal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u484	We'll see in 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u485	On the other hand, I want to speak to the Members of the majority, who I would ask to listen to for a moment. Today, during the general discussion, we can speak in the rostrum: this will become increasingly rare. During the discussion at the beginning of an article's review, we can also, even if rarely, speak in the gallery. Tomorrow we will no longer have the opportunity to speak in the rostrum: this piece of furniture, symbol of democracy, behind which the greatest speakers of the Republic have spoken, will be able to disappear since we will no longer go to the rostrum. That is a very objective reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u486	It's fantasy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u487	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We must know: we will lose one of the dimensions of our democracy, the symbolic dimension. And symbols matter in our democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u488	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u489	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u490	The reform of the Rules of Procedure of our House, which you have initiated, Mr President, will be a success if it succeeds, on the one hand, in improving the efficiency and quality of parliamentary work and, on the other hand, in respecting the individual right of expression of Members. There is therefore a balance to be struck: with Article 8, which we are starting to examine, this balance is broken to the detriment of the expression of Members. You anticipate that only one speaker per group will be able to speak in the discussion of bills and bills. This implies that, in many groups, as is the case for the Republican and Republic groups on the move, many Members will no longer be able to express themselves in order to give a general opinion on a text. This will be all the more unfortunate as there may be, in some groups, ours and others, a plurality of opinions on a particular text. This limitation on the number of speakers in the general debate is all the more unacceptable, Mr President, since you are proposing the same thing in Rule 25 of your draft for statements on the article. For these reasons, we shall be required, unless our amendments are accepted, to cast an unfavourable vote on Article 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u491	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u492	Behind the pretext of efficiency and rationalisation by which you justify this element of your reform, there is a scorn, a confusion between two terms semantically close but so different: between politics and politics, between political debate and public policies. Public policies must be effective, they must be in line with what we decide here. But the effectiveness of politics is something that could be discussed for a long time. Should debate, debate, take the time to present a vision of society satisfy an imperative of efficiency? I don't believe it; democracy grows from the time taken to discuss, debate, develop the visions, similar, different, opposite, complementary to society. This is the time for general discussion. Of course, we will continue to have time to speak on the articles, even if you intend to reduce it, or on the amendments, because we will continue to table them, and the more time we need, the more amendments we will table. But we cannot, in two minutes, develop a thought. Five minutes of general discussion, on texts with dozens of articles, is not enough. However, this is the time for debate when Article 1 can be linked to Article 150 from the parliamentary shuttle. To explain his understanding of a text with so many articles, five minutes will never be enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u493	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u494	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are at the heart of the problem of this revision of the Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary debate is based on the very principle of the contradiction between the majority and the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u495	Well done, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u496	Limiting speaking time is therefore delicate in the context of a parliamentary regime, which is certainly dominated by the majority fact but which must guarantee the rights of the opposition. Then why so much haste? This haste is understood all the less as the reform of the regulation is usually quite logically following constitutional reforms. There is one "in the pipes" which certainly has difficulty coming to us, but which you always claim to want to present here, and it will most likely require a new reform of our Rules of Procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Why this haste, this zeal, if not to prevent the Assembly, and especially the opposition, from speaking at the time of examining this revision of the Constitution? I see another disadvantage in this rule of one speaker per group: you may see an abundant flowering of small groups. I'm not sure that's the expected effect. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, Mr President, and I am telling you with some seriousness, you have certainly won in the ballot box the power to govern, but not the power to withdraw the right to oppose us. Think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u497	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u498	After Laurence Dumont put the terms of the debate seriously, questioning our place in this House, I would like to ask you what you are afraid of. What you are proposing will save us 50 minutes in the examination of a text. Let us all think about what happens when a text is examined, the suspension of sittings necessary to obtain an agreement between the majority group and the Government, etc. Don't you feel like we can save 50 minutes from this point of view? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You propose that we remove the right to express an opinion, if any, different from that of the other members of his group to those who hold this right of universal suffrage, of the will of the people. The principle is that of free membership and not of submission to a group. Limiting the number of speakers to one per group is ultimately imposing the imperative mandate. Life within groups, or even within the Assembly, will become completely insipid, reducing itself to the succession of the thoughts of the eight political leaders that the country counts. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] I told you, I am proud to be a socialist, but I am first of all the Member of Parliament for the Béarnais, and it is this singularity that I want to make heard here. I will not admit that under an overly Parisian vision, we come to reduce the ability of everyone to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u499	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u500	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. For the moment, the Members we are still have the right to speak in the Chamber. So let us not deprive ourselves of it, ladies and gentlemen! Rule 8 simply proposes to hold parliamentary debates, to leave the floor to one speaker per group. That is not acceptable. Two years ago, we were elected according to a new concept, that of the end of the cumulation between the parliamentary term and a local executive function. The reform, which we were opposed to, especially with regard to municipalities and small towns, was intended to allow the 2017 MP to focus on his parliamentary mandate. And now you're proposing a counterproductive reform. You want to make us spectators of parliamentary debates, having the right to attend without being able to intervene! Article 8 is, in my view, clearly undemocratic. Each of our groups is traversed by different currents of thought which must be able to express themselves as much as necessary. This means that regional differences will no longer be able to be expressed within the same group. Your predecessor was the fosseur of the office of Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u501	A nullity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u502	Muzzling Members will not bring our fellow citizens closer to our office. Rather, this majority should focus on explaining our work, the role of the majority and the opposition. For these reasons, Mr President, we are determined to vote in favour of the amendments to delete Article 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u503	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u504	These few words to denounce this mania of industrializing the fabric of the law by advocating its fluidity, its effectiveness. Of course, all this is important and the deadlines must not be too long, but it is a matter of making the law, not of making it. Making the law requires the use of tools such as listening, attention, exchange, and also adversarial. Exchange can and should give rise to the possibility of amending, i.e. improving the text from the point of view of the collective interest. With this reform, it will no longer be possible and, under the guise of equality, we will all be on the five-minute package, regardless of the weight of the group, whether it has 105 members or 16 members. Five minutes for 105, we see that the time ratio is ridiculous; For 16 Members, it is not terrible, but it is already a little less unfair. And then who will appoint the speaker for each group? That's a question I'm asking myself. The Members of our group are free to speak, and no kapo is responsible for distributing the word. The alms we are given in exchange for this musellement of the word of a contribution to the Official Journal are not satisfactory. First, it does not obey the principle of adversariality. And then who's going to read the Official Journal? Of course no one! Who will echo our contribution to our fellow citizens? Of course no one! Contributions can be accumulated without exchange or debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For my part, I do not see the parliamentarian as someone who makes contributions, but as someone who lives in the heart of the city, and not only in the pages of the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u505	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u506	We are here, in the National Assembly, to make politics, and to make politics involves developing ideas, exposing a project of society. On texts such as civil service reform or pension reform, one cannot expose a project of society in five minutes! You cannot develop your vision of what politics and society should be. You only have time to give a big picture of what you think of the text under review. That is why we are totally opposed to this article. Some colleagues have said that Members will have an opportunity to speak during the discussion of the amendments. That is not true, since the reform also tends to limit the number of speakers on the article or the exercise of the right of amendment. Thus, several speakers could not defend identical amendments. That is why we will vote in favour of the amendments to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u507	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u508	What a competition! A spokesperson and five minutes to convince! This could be the title of a thriller! There is no doubt that this provision tends to be a contraction of political thinking. Let us admit, ladies and gentlemen, who did not need this time, including in the drafting of the law here, to build his reflection on the text and fine-tune the argument that will lead him to approve it or disapprove it? The incarnation of this contraction of political thought by a single speaker is no less than the negation of long time and any nuance. I will take only one example, that of the revision of the bioethics law. Who can claim here that any group can sum it up in five minutes of general discussion? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LR groups]] I could multiply the examples, because if we are politicians, we are first and foremost men and women of various social and territorial sensitivities, and you will never make me look like... Andre Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u509	Bravo, Wulfranc!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u510	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u511	It is true, I recognize, that these long tunnels, namely the general discussions, where not everyone always listens, where there are few people in the Chamber to hear the speaker in the gallery, had to be rectified. The problem is that you go from one excess to the other by assigning only a five-minute speaking time per group. How do you want to give a comprehensive opinion in five minutes on a text that can count more than 100 articles? We spoke in part of the PACTE law, which, I believe, had almost 150 of it: how do you want a group to express itself, give an overall view of such a text in five minutes? I had the opportunity to refer to this amendment of the Rules of Procedure during the general discussion of the text. I've had five minutes, but it's been very hard for me to stick to it! In addition, the danger posed by other articles is added to this article: when you prohibit the statements made by several speakers on an article, Mr President, you deprive parliamentarians of the opportunity to speak. The only possibility of expression, for us in the Chamber, will have a perverse effect, since we will have to table amendments, which will therefore multiply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u512	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u513	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The time saved in general discussion will be lost in defence of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u514	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u515	As my colleagues have said, your desire to simplify or ease discussions has a perverse effect. No elected person is present here because he belongs to a political party, but because he is the chosen one of the Nation and he represents a territory and his voters. Often it happens that within a group, especially if it is important, we did not all think the same thing about a text. The CAPTE law has just been discussed, but other important texts will be presented – for example, bioethics: the views that will be expressed will exceed partisan affiliations. Only one Member of Parliament will speak on behalf of a group will raise a real problem: what would be the most important word when we can be led to vote differently? [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] As you restrict the rights of parliamentarians, I invite you to consider, given the forthcoming texts, that we are not all the same. Perhaps this majority votes each time as one man, but at Les Républicains we are free to vote and we intend to remain so. Freedom of vote is the fundamental right of the MP. However, you are removing the possibility that we have of discussing democratically and limiting our right to parliamentary expression, which, in my view, is particularly serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u516	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u517	The reduction in speaking time in the general debate could be equal since, for once, Members who are not registered are not excluded from it, but I am not in favour of it, just as Mrs Lorho is here, on whose behalf I think I can speak. Indeed, we are extremely attached to the plurality of expressions both within a group and among the non-attached. However, as planned, the system is not satisfactory, it seems to me. As our colleagues, the Republicans, but also those who sit on the other side of the House, have said, it is not possible to give a five-minute speaking time to a group of 105 Members and 15 Members, or a representative of non-attached Members. If it is not equal, it does not seem fair to me. Many consider that a five-minute speaking time in general discussion is not enough to present a thought, a point of view on a text, and I agree: this is indeed the lot of non-attached people, since, systematically, we never have more than five minutes of speaking time. Perhaps it could be expected that, in some cases, they too could have a little more time. Last point, particularly important to us: the scheduled legislative time. This procedure is particularly iniquitous, I would say, for non-attached Members. I have heard Members of the majority argue that a reduction in speaking time during the general debate would make it possible to better defend the amendments. However, for non-attached Members, that is not true. Indeed, the time given to us is so derisory that it is quickly exhausted. After that, we are asked to remain calmly in the Chamber so that our amendments can be defended. Not only can we not expose them but, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Government and the rapporteur are allowed not to answer us! Our amendment is therefore presented – "defended" – but no one is obliged to answer us and we must remain in the Chamber sitting for long hours...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u518	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u519	[[Marie-France Lorho applauds]] ...waiting for the session to happen! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u520	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u521	I'm going to go back to what I said to you on a one-on-one basis, Mr. President. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Although convergences may sometimes exist, we are political opponents. I appreciate your presidency, I know that once the new regulation is adopted, you will have the intelligence and the open mind to allow more time to speak if it is necessary. I do not doubt this will, but, as I said to you yesterday at the end of my speech: tomorrow is another day and we do not know who will be tomorrow in your place, what will be the majority. The regulation could then be enforced with a rigour that you will spare us. In addition, there is more than just a bill. When you yourself spoke of Clemenceau, Jean Jaurès, you quoted excerpts from their interventions. We've all read speeches by Victor Hugo in the Senate. The rhetoric goes beyond the technique of legislative manufacture: we are also there to open up political perspectives, to show that the society we reform is made to last, that it will be that of future generations. But it takes time. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LR group]] In the end, democratic breathing will be lacking. Your approach is mechanical: you install cylinder and piston but if, in the end, no steam comes out, the machine will not turn. But here we have to echo what we are told about the territories, about our exchanges! That's what I call democratic breathing! The regulation, as you understand it, is a suffocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u522	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u523	There are a thousand ways to save or waste time. To be a member of parliament is also to speak, to be a member of parliament. Writing is something else, it's not talking, talking to each other, as we do now. As has been said, only one speaker per article is tantamount to denying pluralism, denying any complexity of thought, depriving Members of opposition of freedom of vote and expression. It is moving towards a single thought per group, which is not at all right for us. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] If we really need to save time, let us stop constantly presenting legislation that does and does what has been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u524	Law chattering!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u525	That's how, perhaps, we'll save time! On the other hand, let us take the time to properly examine selected texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u526	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u527	I thank you for these many reactions, which show how sensitive this question of speaking time in our Chamber is. I deeply respect the views you have expressed, but I will try to explain my point of view to you. There are two measures in this article: the five-minute speaking time, the one speaker per group. It also presents advances for opposition law in the context of scheduled legislative time: therefore, removing it would be very problematic. As far as speaking time is concerned: first of all, the fluidity of the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u528	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u529	We know, we've talked about it, we can be for or against. And then, for our fellow citizens, the political speech of a political group, explicitly defended in the rostrum. Everyone does their job as they wish, but as far as I am concerned, when I come to explain the position of MODEM, I obviously remain Sylvain Waserman and I express what I want to say, but I feel responsible for the collective expression of my colleagues in the group. Once again, everyone is free: as for me, I feel the duty of echoing a political group, including its nuances or contradictions. This is a personal point of view, but I believe that the general discussion is an opportunity for a group to give its opinion, however complex it may be, on a subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u530	In five minutes?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u531	In five minutes. This text therefore makes choices, openly. I also note that the Conference of Presidents is already setting the time for general discussions. It would have been possible for us to propose an ambush formula – "five to ten minutes of speaking time according to..." – but we have chosen a five-minute speaking time, as a matter of principle, the Conference of Presidents may decide that, for example, the general discussion of the text on bioethics will double it. This is already the case, I repeat, since the Conference of Presidents sets the duration of the general discussion on the basis of the texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u532	It's the majority who's staring at him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u533	I agree that the majority fact exists, but I also believe that political practices in this House are not an arbitrary decision of one of us, but a certain consensus and a certain exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u534	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u535	Mr Schellenberger, I believe, explained that there is a correlation between time of expression and democracy. We are also sensitive and you can be happy about it, because if we continue at the current pace, we will have debated 7,000 hours at the end of this Parliament, compared to 5000 when you were the majority, which represents an increase of 40% of the time for discussion! The balance that we have to build is not just a mathematical calculation of speaking time. We see it, we live it: the time for discussion is long and it is not forced. Finally, while deeply respecting everyone's views, I would like to reassure those who speak of dictatorship or serious attacks on democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u536	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u537	The Constitutional Council exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u538	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u539	Indeed! If a provision of this regulation is contrary to the Constitution, if it is anti-democratic or dictatorial, the Constitutional Council censura it, rest assured! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The speaking time is a bias, a choice assumed. I understand that some people do not share it, but this was also the case in committee, and other choices are certainly possible, but it is a clear, open choice that will allow us to be effective and that will clarify things for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u540	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-28-O1251.u541	Next sitting, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the motion for a resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The meeting is adjourned.
