ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and establishing a national subscription for this purpose (No. 1980, 2073, 2072).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u3	Our assembly is re-reading the bill for the restoration and conservation of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. Everyone remembers the terrifying images of our cathedral, which died in part from the flames on April 15. This tragedy has given rise to an impetus of generosity, and we are all committed to engaging in the restoration work. The President of the Republic has made a public commitment to the completion of this project in five years' time, which represents an ambitious challenge. While keeping this objective in line, we must ensure that the conditions of the site guarantee the quality of the restoration. This isn't about any building! We must keep in mind the respect for his soul and his balance, the fruit of many previous restorations, which have given him this figure identifiable throughout the world and recognizable for all French. Our assembly had adopted at first reading a text whose balance had been laboriously found. We supported it while expressing to the Government our serious reservations about the collection of donations and the conditions for restoration provided for in the text. Thus, the text proposed at first reading did not sufficiently specify the system of derogations, which did not fail to raise objections. The willingness to react promptly led to the presentation of an inabouti text. We too want to move forward quickly, but provided we do not neglect the consultation and the comments of each other. We must find the way for the restoration of Notre-Dame to offer the French the opportunity to gather around this emblematic monument. It can be done in an exemplary manner by demonstrating, in the eyes of the world, the quality of our country's know-how and its ability to mobilize for its heritage, as well as by highlighting the trades and craftspeople with a multi-sacular tradition. We know your willingness to move forward on this issue by using various educational tools to raise awareness of these professions, which are too rarely exposed. This will also guarantee the quality of the restoration for which France is committed and which must preserve the historical, artistic and architectural interest of the monument, in accordance with the principles mentioned in the International Charter on the Conservation and Restoration of Monuments and Sites, adopted in Venice in 1964. The Senate had found it useful to mention this charter in extenso in the body of the law. We share this will and regret that it was banned at the end of the work in committee. On the other hand, our group is not opposed to the creation of a dedicated public institution, which seems to be a useful measure. We had requested in committee that the Government clarify the contours of such a facility. The new wording seems relevant to us in order to ensure efficiency and responsiveness, by synergizing all the actors involved. This project, by its size and its symbolism, requires special provisions that do not remove the investment of the departments of the ministry and its staff. The competences will be combined and the relevant actors will gather on the board of directors, which will include qualified personalities, representatives of the city of Paris and the affective cult. During the first reading work, a scientific council, which we believe is of the greatest benefit, was attached to this board of directors. Similarly, the perimeter, whether in the immediate vicinity or in the basement, seems to us to be the most relevant. In Article 9, we expressed the greatest reservations about the excessive number of derogations envisaged. That is why we look forward to finally being able to work on the basis of more serious data, even though the Government has been slow to transmit them to us. We approved, at first reading, the derogations aimed at speeding up administrative procedures, in particular with regard to the conditions for restoration. The Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris has been the subject, over time, of extensive studies which give us the information necessary to restore it faithfully to what it was before the great fire. On the other hand, we did not want these derogations to be used to transform this monument, which seemed to us to have reached, over time, a form of balance that we must celebrate by restoring its appearance. The codes of urban planning, the environment and heritage have their raison d'être; We must remain vigilant about these derogations. In our view, an exceptional monument should not call an exception law. The amendment tabled by the Government to article 9 is intended to provide a useful clarification of this derogation; We therefore share its objectives. In particular, it provides that, by way of derogation from Article L. 523-9 of the Heritage Code, the public establishment referred to in Article L. 523-1 of the same Code, namely the National Institute for Preventive Archaeological Research (INRAP), will be the operator responsible for carrying out the archaeological excavations made necessary in the course of this work. It will be an opportunity to highlight the extraordinary competence of this institution, which has a real technical know-how but also pedagogical, since it seeks to inform and raise awareness on a regular basis among different publics about the progress of the work and the possible discoveries. Derogations from the Environmental Code have also raised concerns, in particular because of the invasive advertisements – each of which has an example in mind – that are responsible for significant visual pollution. It was obviously inconceivable that this could happen at Notre-Dame's construction site, which would have been inconsistent with the limits we had placed on this issue in the bill for the organization of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. We are therefore reassured on this point. The question remains of the tax system, on which we have a fundamental disagreement. My colleague, Jean-Paul Mattei, reminded the Committee on Finance of this and will probably say it again in the discussion of the articles: we do not approve of the tax arrangements provided for in the text. If we understand the exceptional nature of the event, we do not accept that new tax advantages will be granted, beyond the measures planned to support the poorest of our citizens. The Committee on Finance, in its great wisdom, has, moreover, removed the mechanism provided for in Article 5. We do not understand this desire to overstep already very advantageous legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u5	I think we should think about the consistency of the message we are about to send.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] In view of the work of the Government, which had tabled two amendments in the last straight line, which sought to clarify and clarify the operative part, the Democratic and Related Group would certainly vote in favour of the bill. Our group wants the restoration to be completed as soon as possible, which will require consultation, goodwill and listening. Our Lady deserves it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u8	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u9	Despite a substantive agreement between all the members of our two assemblies on the need to make every effort to bring out again the splendor of Notre-Dame, we have not managed to agree on all the arrangements to be made to guarantee the preservation and restoration of the cathedral in the best conditions. We have finally returned, to a few lines, to the draft before the Joint Joint Committee – but I have just learned that the Government has tabled amendments – and there are still major disagreements. First of all, there is the question of the unreasonable delays dictated by the presidential speech, which intends to ignore the architectural time that most specialists in the renovation have called for, in favour of an impatience which obviously satisfies the issues of tourism and events more than of a timetable adapted to a long-term vision. Let us not erase, behind an efficiency display, the complexity of the thought that must surround this project. This is, in essence, the message that these specialists have tried to make audible; I'm not sure they did. Is the fact that you have finally agreed to hear some of the criticisms expressed by the world of builders by narrowing the scope of possible derogations in terms of public order and construction a first step or the admission of an awareness of the risks that these authorizations would pose to us? Moreover, it seems that things have changed further in this regard; It's hard to follow you... To reassure us, you offer us the opportunity – quite formal, we fear – to debate the ordinances. You also propose that a fact-finding mission be established to monitor the enforcement of the law and these orders. The initiative is commendable, but it will not change the exceptional nature that you wanted to give to this text. We regret this once again because, while we all recognize the importance it derives from its particular context, there is no justification for the State to allow itself what it prohibits in ordinary law from elected representatives of the territory when conducting conservation and restoration work in their communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u12	The authorizations to derogate from a number of rules that you are considering are not compatible with the example you cite in the explanatory memorandum. Moreover, several weeks after this terrible fire, we see that the promises of donation are running out and not all are followed by a concrete gesture. It is therefore particularly necessary to send a sign that reinforces the confidence necessary for the implementation of this project and to display an unwavering requirement for the conduct of this project. Ensuring in Article 3 that the amounts of donations will be used in accordance with the intention of donors is an essential element. This will reinforce the approach of donations made under the national subscription through the various foundations that acted spontaneously in response to the event. On this occasion, the foundations recognized as being of public utility have once again shown the privileged place they occupy, thanks to their expertise, in the heart of the French. They therefore deserve to be fully associated with the decision-making structure, in the same way as the city of Paris and the Centre for National Monuments. Their presence in the future public institution would be a proof of recognition that we would be wrong to do without.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u14	With regard to the allocation of donations, we hoped that work on the presentation of certain works and collections could be carried out within the perimeter of the courtyard or the gardens, in order to nourish the curiosity and feeling of attachment to the national heritage that have been at the source of such a great boost of generosity. Even though we learned it a little late, you seem to have been sensitive to this proposal, and that is so much better. There are still some uncertainties about the governance of this public institution – we hope, like other Members, that the subscription will be placed under the authority of the assemblies, as has been done in the past – and its composition and the management of donations pending its creation. You propose that the State be entrusted with this management in the meantime; Why not use the network of existing foundations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u15	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u16	Parliament is the place that carries in it the soul of a people and represents it. It is desirable that the governance of public institutions should be transparent and take into account the new demands expressed by our citizens. We must also be particularly vigilant about the source of the funds, Mr Minister of Culture. You told me, at first reading, that the law already allowed for protection against such risks. If everything worked so well, we would not have to vote for new texts! The fight against money laundering and tax evasion must be a work of every moment, even when we talk about Our Lady and her outreach beyond our borders. In addition, our group has again tabled amendments to amend the tax exemptions that you are proposing, because they will not benefit all the French as they stand. We had already stressed this at first reading: half of the French who do not pay income tax is de facto excluded from the tax support scheme. In order to reduce the amount of public expenditure, we propose that you again replace the tax reduction with a tax credit, which would allow all the French who made a donation to benefit from relief. In order not to entail an additional cost for public finances, we propose to reduce the ceiling for donations from 1000 to 531 euros, which will be reimbursed to 75 per cent by the State. This corresponds to the current ceiling for donations to charitable associations. Also in the interests of fairness, we ask that the limit for payments that will be subject to a tax reduction be set by tax share. The adoption of these measures would promote fiscal fairness in line with the national momentum we are witnessing. We had also, in the first debates, given a different assessment from that of some colleagues on the idea of imposing a reconstruction of the cathedral's arrow "in the same way", words wisely replaced since then by the expression "in the last known visual state before the sinister". Let me repeat in this Chamber that it seems inappropriate for us to open here a debate of so-called experts, who could quickly look like a quarrel between old and modern, and would obviously go beyond our fields of competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u18	As the Chief Curator we met during the visit organised on the initiative of the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, whom I thank, as the diagnostic phase has not yet been completed, the projections for the future can only be hasty as we speak. Far from the dictatorship of immediacy that characterizes our time, successive laws on historical buildings tell, in their own way, centuries of construction, of incredible hesitation and daring, which, we can imagine, have not always been of the taste of contemporaries of the various ages of the cathedral. This building carries in it the stages of an architectural transition and an accumulation of knowledge. Today, the terrible fire has become a constituent element of the new DNA of the cathedral. The idea that the authenticity of the monument would only reveal itself in an identical reconstruction does not seem to us to be relevant. Let us leave it to those whose daily work it is to think about a project, to imagine curves and arrows to rebuild our cathedral in the respect of this collective vibration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u20	Very wise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u21	Through this project, it is also the values that feed our common, bold and solidarity history that we must defend. It is probably because the dreams of the builders of Notre-Dame were great that so many major events resonated there, making the heart of a nation beat. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Because there is no beauty in these sky-facing buildings or, more modestly, folded into the lives they protect than with the intention of women and men to write a will and a project, our responsibility is great today. As the bill stands, the Socialist and related groups will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u22	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u23	On April 15, 2019, we witnessed the devastation of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, a part of us, a testimony of the richness of humanity. We were, for long hours, the prostrate and helpless spectators of this tragedy. Diminished but far from being shot down, our cathedral resisted the fire that blazed it and its belfries remained solid, thanks to the unwavering commitment of more than 400 firefighters mobilized on the spot. Very quickly, the solidarity was organized, like the faithful who gathered in the vicinity of the cathedral and whose choirs rose even higher in the sky than the flames that ended to consume the structure of the building, as the promise of a new and collective energy, powerful and indestructible. Faced with the horror caused by the fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, the Government's responsibility was to bring the French together and transcribe their will. This text was intended to bring about agreement; It must be noted that he sows discord.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u24	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u25	If we are unanimous on the need to restore the building, we express our disagreement as to how to achieve it. We have consistently said this throughout the discussion of this text: Article 9 concentrates criticism. Its abolition, as it stands, is a demand widely expressed not only by parliamentarians but also by our compatriots. It is incomprehensible that, under the guise of rapid restoration, we can derogate from the whole of the positive law that can be invoked. The fact-finding mission concerning the application of the provisions of this bill, which was presented to us as a consideration for the acceptance of all these derogations, and in which I will participate, cannot satisfy us. Indeed, the fact-finding mission is one of the means available to parliamentarians to carry out their mission of evaluating public policies; It cannot be a counterpart since it falls within the normal scope of the parliamentary mandate. The same applies to the introduction of a bill intended exclusively for the ratification of the ordinances provided for in this text: you undertake to do what should be the norm for the intelligibility of our debates. These commitments are not such as to reassure the opposition parliamentarians that we are in relation to your desire to free you from ordinary law. On the other hand, the amendments tabled by the Government to articles 8 and 9 seem to us to be guarantees in the right direction. The new wording proposed for Article 8 satisfies us all the more as it will enable us to enhance the professions that contribute to the restoration of the building and the implementation of cultural and educational programmes. The amendment to Article 9 seeks to clarify the main derogations, in particular from the Heritage Code, the Environmental Code and the General Code of Ownership of Public Persons. Nevertheless, we wonder about the temporality of the construction site. The President of the Republic has set a five-year goal for the preservation and restoration of the cathedral. He expressed himself in the aftermath of the fire: "We will rebuild Notre-Dame even more beautiful. I want it completed in five years. We can [...]. The choice of the President of the Republic is questionable, but this commitment has been formulated before the French. However, Minister of Culture, you said a few days ago: "What matters in the end is the quality of the achievement. That doesn't mean that when we're five years old, we're bound to have the finished work in its entirety. » Mr Minister, like many Frenchmen, we are a little lost: the President of the Republic has made a commitment to our fellow citizens that you would apparently not be obliged to respect! For our part, in political time, we prefer the time of reflection. The inclusion of this project in the long term would be a unique and wonderful opportunity to bring the French together around this joint project and to enhance the jobs that contribute to its realization. It would make it possible to honour the forgotten or ill-considered know-how of men and women capable of stunning prowess and to show the world French excellence in heritage restoration, while involving citizens other than through their participation in the financing of the project. Whatever our function, regardless of the amount of our donation – whether we have made a donation or not – the Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris belongs to us all, and its restoration may, at least I hope, be the beginning of a collective adventure around heritage. Minister, you have indicated that there is a significant gap between pledges and amounts received to date. The newspaper Le Monde reported on 14 June that only 9% of the pledged donations had actually been made, or about 80 million euros. There are several reasons why potential donors are cold. One of them, no doubt, is the persistent ambiguity around a possible balance of donations. In view of the pledges made, the potential donor needs to be reassured about the use of his or her donation before proceeding with the act. To that end, we are asking for guarantees: it is necessary to include in the law the use that would be made of any remaining donations. We will defend amendments to that effect. The first of these aims to specify that the donations made will be intended exclusively for the preservation and restoration of the cathedral. In this way, the donor will be certain that, if there is a balance of donations, it will not abound the general budget of the State. Otherwise, we will defend another amendment which provides that, if the funds were reallocated, donors would have to be consulted and should give their consent to the new use of their donation. With regard to Article 5, which is proposed to be reinstated, even if we are not fundamentally opposed to a tax reduction of 75% of the donation made, we must fully measure the weight of this effort on our public finances, like that of all the emergency measures taken in recent months. This must now be accompanied by a real effort to reduce public spending. More generally, this ad hoc and targeted measure must lead us to reflect on an ambitious policy for our cultural heritage. I would remind you that the State manages to finance 80% of Paris' cultural policy. Directing the funds of the Ministry of Culture less towards Paris and more towards the territories would allow to respond to the French's attachment to their local heritage and would help to reduce the territorial divide. At first reading, the IDU and independent group voted mainly against the text. Since the beginning of its review, we have indicated that our vote will depend on the scope of the exemptions that the Government intends to benefit from. This rewriting of the text allows us to approach this new reading with more confidence. Our discussions will allow us to define our position on the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u26	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u27	After a first reading under the sign of the questions, after a strong reaction from the world of heritage, the doubts of the experts in construction and historians, and after an unconclusive joint committee, this text returns to the Chamber; He demands that our assembly show great measure. A word persists today: uncertainty. As we pointed out at first reading, many of the points in your bill still raise our question. Should I remind you of the last episode in the Finance Committee last week, with the deletion of Article 5? There does not appear to be any guidelines on this specific subject, so far as the deletion of this key article from the text has been confirmed in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, with the assistance of some of the majority. This can only draw our attention to the problem of this national subscription. If the rapporteur has spoken of an error of vote, I shall at the very least observe that the votes have been expressed in accordance with the procedure. Where's the mistake? We imagine that you will try to re-establish this article in a public session. In any case, this episode demonstrates the improvisation that led to the drafting of this text. Also in section 5, we regret that you chose a tax reduction. To allow for the participation of sometimes modest donors, who are not subject to income tax, you could have put in place a tax credit. You would have avoided any inequality between our fellow citizens in the face of state support. In addition, €80 million has been raised since the launch of the national subscription. This high amount, however, accounts for only 9% or 10% of the pledged donations, which contrasts with the momentum of spontaneous generosity after the fire. There is currently no guarantee that all donations will be raised; It's another uncertainty. We again call for the deletion of Article 9, despite the amendments tabled by the majority yesterday at the last moment. If this wisely chosen timing has the merit of surprising, it goes against the parliamentary debate. I would also like to recall the doubts of the Liberties and Territories Group about the use of derogations. The removal of derogations in the fields of public procurement and construction is insufficient. Derogations remain in the text which concern, in particular, urban planning and the environment. We are opposed to it, even if you specify their contours in your amendment tabled yesterday. The need to restore and the imperative of efficiency must not lead us to haste. We need clarity. All these elements must alert us. Let us not make this legislation an exception. Let us take the time to reflect, imagine and build together a future for this almost millennium monument. After all, this fire, whose images have marked many French and have echoed across borders, is now part of the history of this cathedral with global reach. Whether it is through architecture, literature, religion, entertainment, urbanism or cinema, Notre-Dame is part of our common history. It appeals to the collective imagination. We must be humble in the face of this emblematic monument of our heritage. Because it belongs to the world heritage and is an element of our common culture, because it attracts 14 million visitors a year, because its dimension extends far beyond the mere influence of Paris or France, we must work towards its restoration by taking the necessary time, which is undoubtedly incompatible with the observance of the five-year deadline desired by the President of the Republic. As at first reading, we maintain the reserve that this agenda raises. Is he only tenable? We share the doubts expressed by many experts about this deadline. In any event, I repeat, we must take a step backwards. We need to learn from this fire. After all, it must be an opportunity to appeal to our creativity. Our country is full of creators, artisans, architects and engineers ready to put their expertise and ingenuity at the service of the reconstruction of Notre-Dame. The images of April 15 hit so many people and the emotion spread immediately from Paris to France and the world. For this monument is part of our daily life: it is part of the urban landscape, to the point of becoming almost banal, while it offers remarkable architecture. At the time the arrow collapsed, sadness seized the crowd, as if it were discovering the vulnerability of this building and, beyond that, of the things of this world. At that time, perhaps, the passers-by who witnessed this collapse became aware of the finesse, the spirit of detail and the architectural balance of this monument. We have to live up to this legacy. That is why, we insist, we must not rush. Instead, we must appeal to all the good wills ready to build the new face of the cathedral. Beyond Notre-Dame, our reflection must extend to the whole of our heritage. This fire is not the first; Unfortunately, it will not be the last, and similar accidents must be prevented. We wonder about the possible surplus of donations. As we said earlier, they are coming gradually and we cannot at the moment foresee the sum that will actually be raised. What if we receive as part of the subscription – this is a hypothesis – more donations than expected for the restoration of Notre-Dame? Could we not take advantage of this opportunity to integrate all of our territories into the process, so that this fire will be an opportunity to participate in heritage conservation throughout the country? Many specialists have alerted us to this. A general awareness is now more than necessary. Our group called on you to draw up a precise picture of the difficulties of conservation of the entire heritage and a fire diagnosis of the main monuments. We are, of course, renewing this request. Our regions and territories are all concerned with this subject. In each region, in each department, in each municipality, our heritage must be preserved. Currently, 65% of the heritage credits are earmarked for Île-de-France; territories outside this region must share the remaining third. This debate must be an opportunity to highlight this indisputable aspect of the territorial divide. In the end, there are still many uncertainties about this text, about its drafting, its chronology, about the tax framework of the subscription, about the creation of a public institution or about the derogations provided for. Of course we wish the restoration of Notre-Dame, and we will contribute to the debate in this sense, but we call again not to give in to haste. Our group is reserved for this bill and intends to take advantage of this new reading discussion so that many doubts can be answered. We will discuss in a constructive spirit, in order to work together to safeguard and rebuild this work, and to ask ourselves about the preservation of all the French heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u28	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u29	Almost two months ago, I was here defending the position of the La France group, which was unsolicited at the first reading of this bill for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and establishing a national subscription for this purpose. Less than a month had passed since the fire of April 15, 2019, which had ravaged this 856-year-old masterpiece, a UNESCO World Heritage Site – United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Emused by this painful news, we had mentioned the extraordinary generosity generated by the disaster. Indeed, in the days following the fire, more than 850 million euros of donation pledges were announced. Two months after the collapse of the arrow of Notre-Dame de Paris live on our television screens, only 82 million euros had been raised, or 9% of the total initial donation promises. The Fondation de France received 9 million euros out of 29 million pledges. For the Heritage Foundation, EUR 54.5 million was received, while EUR 221 million was expected. With regard to the Notre-Dame Foundation, out of 395 million euros, only 15 million were raised. The National Monuments Centre notes a EUR 1 million difference between actual donations and promises, which amounted to EUR 4.5 million. The 82 million euros of donations, which came by cheque or transfer, come mostly from private individuals. The difference between the original promises and the actual donations lies in the funds promised by a few billionaires. These wealthy donors hastened to boast their own merits in the press, but they did not say that this money would be sent "by little, depending on the cost of the reconstruction" in order "to prevent the state from making their hundreds of millions of euros grow by placing them before the works are started", as France Info explains. The French and French who will contribute to the reconstruction effort of this monument will not all reap the same benefits from their generosity. The most modest donors will be responsible for 100% of their donation if they are not taxable, while the generous patron who will offer 100 million euros will be able to benefit from a tax reduction of 66 million, compensated by the State, therefore by the taxpayer. At first reading, you refused to improve Rule 5a, voted in the Finance Committee, which calls for a report on the share and amount of donations and payments made under the national subscription resulting in tax reductions. In order to highlight the unfairness of the donation system, we proposed that you entrust an additional clarification mission to the Government in the context of this report: to study the profile of those who have benefited from the tax reduction per decile of standard of living. Since the donations received for Notre-Dame de Paris come mainly from private individuals, we consider that this amendment is all the more legitimate in new reading. We will therefore propose it to you again later. You expect that the local authorities will also be able to make payments in respect of the national subscription. You state in the explanatory memorandum, but not in the operative document, that these payments will be considered "equipment grants", which are capital expenditure. Legal uncertainty persists as to the ability of the regions to make such payments. However, we can see that some of them, who already claimed to be financially suffocated by the decline in state resources, have been able to find the resources necessary to participate in this spirit of generosity. However, as the Senate suggests at first reading, we will propose that these donations not be accounted for in expenditures subject to the 1.2 per cent increase limit that communities must now meet in the context of the contract. The best solution to cover the costs of restoration and conservation of our heritage is taxation. National solidarity can finance such a scheme. We could, for example, consider an exceptional tax on big fortunes and large companies. National representation must require transparent and transparent management of these funds. The La France insoumise group hopes that this national subscription will not be placed under the high patronage of the President of the Republic, and that the fund control committee will be composed of two parliamentarians from the opposition of each assembly, and that it will regularly present conclusions, published on a website, so that everyone will be informed of developments in its work. We could also, on this occasion, state in the law that the surplus of money collected, if any, is used to finance other buildings that are part of our public heritage and require renovations. Many of our fellow citizens have expressed disagreement about the various derogations that the bill provides for, derogations from the rules of urban planning, environmental protection and even public participation. The exceptional regime that you want to introduce into the law is of particular concern to us with regard to the conformity of planning documents, the issuance of works and construction permits, the modalities of public participation in the development of decisions and environmental assessment, preventive archaeology, as well as the rules on public order, public policy, road and transport. Your tendency to derogate from the legal provisions is confirmed until the appointment of the head of the public institution responsible for reconstruction. You continue to provide that the heads of the institution are not subject to the age limit rules applicable in the public service of the State. At a time when the French and French express a very clear rejection of nepotism and argue the need to make the state more exemplary, this proposal, rightly deleted by the Senate, aims to ensure that General Jean-Louis Georgelin can take the lead in this institution and receive treatment for it. Without prejudging the quality of this general's personality, this reinforces our view that this bill is multiplying exceptions to law and ethics, which we believe is contrary to the general interest. It is precisely the general interest that should prevail. Here we could draw lessons from a situation that is certainly imposed on us, but whose possibility was not ruled out: the fire at Notre-Dame de Paris was not foreseeable, but it was possible. We note that, in the current state of the Ministry of Culture's finances, the State had no possibility of reacting. This seems to be an implacable logic when one realizes that, since 2009, the budget for architectural heritage and monuments has been cut by 25%, from €440 million to €332 million. The State is increasingly disengaging itself from cultural affairs in favour of private patronage, which it encourages with great reinforcement of tax exemptions, which the taxpayer supports. That is why we were opposed to raising the income tax reduction for donations and disbursements from 66 to 75 per cent, up to a limit of EUR 1000. To our great surprise, the Finance Committee has removed Article 5 which provided for this tax measure. The Committee on Cultural Affairs did the same, against the rapporteur's opinion. Refusing decisions of circumstance, emergency measures and the withdrawal of the State from support for cultural policies to the detriment of the taxpayer, we strongly hope that this article will not be reinstated. [[Pierre Dharréville and Michèle Victory applaud]] As we repeat, culture is the variable for adjusting the budgets of the State. Yet it is a vector of emancipation, therefore of freedom. It is the absolute antidote against obscurantism. At one time, Notre-Dame was the embodiment of a new time that began. It is essential that its reconstruction be carried out in a spirit that respects the great questions that enliven us today, as well as those that were able to animate the builders of ancient times. Social, environmental, ethical and democratic issues must be at the heart of the concerns of those who will have the mission of reconstructing this monument in the history of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u30	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u31	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u32	Two and a half months have passed since the fire of Notre-Dame, and the emotion remains. The work of consolidation and security is progressing, but, as you said, everything remains fragile. The preliminary investigation into the causes of the fire has just been completed. I want to thank all the actors in this huge project. In the streets of Paris, various men and women continue to hurry to contemplate the cathedral, with a new look and, in many cases, the feeling of seeing a survivor. We say, indeed, that we have escaped the worst. The images of fire come back to our head, but, very quickly, trust takes over: we know that it will be restored by highly talented men and women, to recognized expertise and seriousness. The know-how has passed through the ages. While techniques, processes and materials have evolved, excellence remains a requirement. Take this construction site in the right way, on your feet, we owe it to the thousands of companions and workers who built our cathedrals from north to south of France. We owe excellence to the chief architects, the artisans and the foreclosures who wore the stones. To the artists who have been able to sublimate Notre-Dame, a work of art in the work of art, by writing, sculpture or painting, we must restore to Notre-Dame all its beauty, which is "so much more beautiful on the side of the apse than on the side of the court", as Aragon wrote. I think that is shared by many here. So we should agree on the hasty nature of this bill on the restoration of Notre-Dame, and denounce the weakening of the rules for the protection of the heritage that it provides for. As we have already explained at first reading, this text has little relevance to the restoration of Notre-Dame. Above all, we try to avoid all the expertise and rules in architecture, heritage, archaeology or the environment, in the name of supposed efficiency. Derogation from ordinary law would guarantee reliability? What an example is given! The series of derogations provided for in Article 9 is a source of danger. In what way would it be possible to better restore Notre-Dame by derogating from the heritage code? According to which analyses setting aside the environmental code would be a wise idea? Neither the Government nor its majority are able to explain precisely how the law in force would create insurmountable obstacles that could prevent the successful restoration of Notre-Dame. Moreover, for the time being, we are not aware of the cost of the work, its modalities, or the processes that will be used. As a result, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will again propose to delete Article 9, as the Senate did. I remain very dubious about the value of creating a new public institution. There are already two public institutions competent for large-scale restoration: the Centre for National Monuments – CMN – and the Operator of Heritage and Real Estate Projects of Culture – OPPIC. However, if the Government wished to establish a new establishment, the most competent persons should sit in its decision-making body. We propose, like my colleague Pierre Ouzoulias in the Senate, to specify that the scientific council will be composed in particular of persons competent in the fields of architecture, medieval history and archaeology, chosen from among the curators of heritage, architects of the Bâtiments de France, chief architects of historical monuments, teachers-researchers, research directors and researchers of the Centre national de la recherche scientifique. It is to these persons, under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture, that it is necessary to leave the care of making decisions concerning Notre-Dame. It is still more useful to include this in the law than an age derogation to run a public institution! It is in this same spirit that the members of the GDR Group want the provision that the works will be led by the chief architect of historical monuments to be re-established in the law. Let us not be mistaken in our debate, ladies and gentlemen. In my view, it is not a matter of deciding by law whether the restoration should be done strictly in the same way, or of determining the visual state of the cathedral once completed. Everyone has their opinion, which is quite normal since this debate about the nature of what a restoration should be, about additions, about the "after" destruction, whether intentional or accidental, is very old. This delicate articulation between what has been done, what has been defeated and what needs to be redone, whether identical or not, we cannot cut it out here. Nevertheless, I believe it is important to respect some protective principles to avoid excesses and drifts, some of which are made possible by this bill. Thus, it is necessary to mention the Venice Charter of 1964 in this text, which must comply with it. It is not a question of conservatism or of refusing the marks of our time, but only of preserving a historic monument of exceptional size. This charter advocates nothing more than respecting "the aesthetic and historical values of the monument", and specifies that any addition must be carried out in harmony with the monument. Article 9 states that restoration must be "accompanied by an archaeological and historical study of the monument". Will this be planned? Will all these rules be respected? We have the right to doubt this when we read the derogations granted, in particular to the rules of preventive archaeology. You submit an exceptional law to us under a common protective law. This obliges us to propose to reintroduce, by means of amendments, protective rules which appear to be obvious. Let us not be mistaken, this bill could have been limited to launching a national subscription, creating a new tax incentive and securing donations for local authorities. If we are now discussing the modalities of restoration, it is simply because the President of the Republic, turning himself into chief architect, decided, the day after the disaster, to postpone five years of reconstruction. This bill, tabled ten days later, is only a translation of a hasty statement, but its consequences may be significant, as it is a dangerous precedent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u34	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u35	That's a very good thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u36	This five-year period is not based on any tangible evidence or expertise. It is not I who say it, it is the President of the Republic himself, during his speech in tribute to the winner of the Pritzker Prize on 24 May, of which you can find the entire site of the Elysée: "So I know that many have worried about my decision first to carry out this work in a tight, proactive schedule. And I fully assume it. And this decision was based on no detailed analysis or any form of expertise, and I fully assume it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u37	No comment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u38	We do not accept it entirely. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to put reason back at the heart of our reflections. The time of emotion has passed: it is not appropriate to go fast to go fast,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u39	It's com'!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u40	...but to do well, methodically, efficiently, based on the know-how acquired for centuries. It is still time to rework the copy, to restrict derogations from the ordinary law, to specify the nature and composition of the public institution, in order to draw the best of French expertise in all fields. We will examine your amendments carefully, Minister. Let's take the time to do things right, whether it takes five or ten years. Let us respect history and this art of architecture. Finally, we all welcomed the generosity of the thousands of individuals who, through their donations, wished to participate in the restoration of Notre-Dame. However, we will no longer be able to avoid an in-depth debate on our heritage protection policy in France, which is increasingly based on private patrons and on tax incentives or games. The concentration of funds on a few large-scale projects is also a problem, as the rest of the French heritage is neglected. This territorial divide, as demonstrated by the Finance Committee last year, cannot continue to flourish. The renovation of the Grand Palais, amounting to 466 million euros, was necessary, but what is wrong is that it represents three times the total amount of grants granted to communities for the maintenance and restoration of historic monuments for 2019. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Alexis Corbière and Mrs Michèle Victory also applaud]] Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we warn you of the haste with which this text is drawn up. Our Lady is part of our history and that of Paris, of her pains, of her conquests. You can't skimp on its construction because, when you love it, you want beautiful. To do this, build on the recognized excellence of government services in conservation and restoration. Our Lady deserves time to be taken, so that again, as Aragon still writes, she "sets waters like a magnet."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u41	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u42	I am warning you at the outset that I am not going to make a technical speech outlining the progress that this bill has made, the ins and outs of first reading or the exchanges between the Assembly and the Senate. No, none of that. I will speak on the importance of our role and responsibility in this House today. We are talking not about a simple building, but about a cathedral with multiple symbols. On April 15, we were powerless spectators in front of the fire of our history. Our Lady is a Catholic symbol, a place of worship, a holy place, a place of pilgrimage. Our Lady is a geographical, historical and cultural symbol. In the centre of Ile de la Cité, at the zero point of the roads of France, this great lady is the center of our capital. So many events in Paris as well as in France are associated: on August 24, 1944, the Liberation was announced by the big bumblebee of the cathedral; Twenty-six years later, General de Gaulle's funeral took place there. This cultural symbol is known in France and throughout the world, as President Emmanuel Macron recalled: "French, French. The fire at Notre-Dame de Paris has deeply affected in their minds and hearts the Parisians, the French and the people of the world. » Our Lady is also a literary symbol and, more broadly, an artistic symbol. She inspired Victor Hugo, Gérard de Nerval and Richard Cocciante and Luc Plamondon, authors of the musical that bears her name. Jacques-Louis David wrote Napoleon's sacre there. It can also be distinguished in Liberty guiding the people of Delacroix. It stays there, unshakeable, between the black smokes and the cannons. It is thus a centuries-old witness to the history of our capital and that of France. In short, we all live a little, in our own way, the cathedral. And you will understand, this building is basically "our lady", our heritage. So let us collectively be responsible for this exceptional situation. In its time, Viollet-le-Duc had taken the subject of the restoration of our cathedral in arms-to-body by rethinking, modernizing, and being a visionary. As it fell into ruins, the architect had given it back its original beauty. Today, Notre-Dame is a cathedral that must be preserved, restored and perhaps rethinked – in any case, which must be given back to Parisians, pilgrims, French and foreign tourists, to all lovers of the building. Beyond political divisions, we must act quickly because inaction would be fatal. On my visit with the Committee on Cultural Affairs, a month ago, I was able to see with my own eyes the extreme attention paid to the slightest movement of the stones of Notre-Dame. By listening last week to Philippe Villeneuve, chief architect of the cathedral, I was able to measure the responsiveness and extent of the care provided to Notre-Dame. I have full confidence in the extreme diligence of our architects in dealing with the emergency. But of urgency, do not come to haste; If there is one requirement that exists in this bill, it is the requirement to make this restoration site an example. First of all, an example of ambition and respect in how we approach this challenge and how we approach and consult to respond to it. An example of collaboration, then. As Victor Hugo wrote, "the greatest products of architecture are less individual works than social works; rather the birth of peoples in labor than the jet of men of genius." Thus, Notre-Dame is already a formidable showcase of our expertise and know-how. It will be even more so. An example of imagination, finally, in the techniques to be convened, in the way to show and share them, in the way in which we can and must finance the maintenance and restoration of our heritage. Let us ask ourselves how our successors will consider how we react today, in 2019, to save this cathedral. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] Yet we must allow ourselves to imagine and overcome certain divisions, not only political ones, whose role of guarding is no longer relevant and which serve mainly to separate our human minds, to prevent them from uniting in order to find solutions. Beyond the political divides, we must send a strong message to all those waiting for us to assume our responsibilities. Our responsibility was precisely to build this bill. Before carrying out its follow-up and monitoring, our responsibility is now to vote broadly, fully and collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u43	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u44	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u45	"Many have expressed concern about my decision to carry out this work [in five years]. [...] This decision was based on no detailed analysis or any form of expertise, and I fully assume it. This sentence, delivered by Emmanuel Macron in the aftermath of the fire that ravaged one of the greatest jewels of our architectural heritage, reveals the ambitions of this text: to enshrine in a hasty manner, on this jewel of the 12th century, the Elysean all-power. Precipitous, this bill is. All the presumed urgency of the tax arrangements that you have put in place in the Senate cannot justify the passage of such an emergency law, which in many ways risks creating a dangerous precedent for the legislative arsenal relating to heritage. I cannot thank our colleagues in the Senate for removing section 9, which violates many of the rules of the Heritage Code and is disproportionate to international charters. His reintroduction is scandalous. It is proof that the Government forgoes discussions with heritage experts in favour of a restoration carried out in accordance with its will and pace. It is proof that the Government has nothing to do with environmental and heritage codes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u46	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u47	This is my second concern: in addition to passing emergency measures, this bill contravenes many international treaties protecting our heritage. These texts bear in them the weight of years, that of this experience necessary not to repeat the mistakes of the past in matters of heritage. We must refer to it, especially when it comes to rebuilding Notre-Dame. Minister, you have indicated to the Senate that you do not wish to close the debate on the modalities of restoration. But for listed historical monuments, there is no debate to have! As Mr.Pierre Ouzoulias, our colleague senator, who is also a curator of heritage, rightly pointed out, we must respect the concept of authenticity enshrined in the Venice Charter, and the universal mansuation that Our Lady has aroused places us under the obligation to respect scrupulously the rules of heritage on which this listed monument depends. The experts we heard during the hearings of the Heritage Study Group did not say anything else. But the experts follow each other and their opinions are similar without you judging right to hear them – you make sure you hear them but don't do anything about them. An alleged modernization of this jewel would make no sense; All of you tell you how much an identical restoration is required. I will mention only Jean-Michel Leniaud, former director of the École nationale des charters, who reminded us last April: "At Notre-Dame, true modernity requires us to transmit the icon, with piety and joy: let us not add to the shame that we have not been able to keep the weakness of not being able to transmit. » Your text is disturbing. You have a law passed while all the legal provisions relating to the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris are present in the Heritage Code. You create a public institution whose lifespan is not specified and the effectiveness is not measurable, while existing institutions have done the job. You do not plan to reallocate a possible surplus of donations: will it be used for the maintenance of the church when it is up to the state to provide it? Yes, it is up to the State to provide for the maintenance of certain churches for which it is the guarantor. In France, the current state of churches, whose municipalities are also responsible, is alarming. I want to take this opportunity to question you, Minister, about the notorious state of disrepair of our churches in France. I'd like to make a call. Our churches are suffering. They suffer from a lack of clear maintenance. Minister, please for them! Please for our churches! [[Applause from non-attached Members]] One of our eminent predecessors, Maurice Barrès, when calling for the preservation of the churches of France, was not mistaken: "What treasures of nobility and poetry, what material wealth also represent these churches of France, which we are letting collapse! [...] All bear a magnificent testimony, the most powerful, the most abundant of the testimonies in favor of French genius. They are the voice, the song of our earth, a voice coming out of the ground where they stand, a voice of the time when they were built, and of the people who wanted them. We must save them, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u48	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u49	The bell tower girouette!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u50	Watch your ears!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u51	The French, Parisians and lovers of our heritage and history, believers or not, remember this Monday, April 15, when the flames devoured the upper part of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. The one who believed in heaven and the one who did not believe in it found themselves, bent, moved and anxious that Notre-Dame could no longer stand. Thanks to the heroic action of our firefighters, who took all the risks, Our Lady is there, and well there! Our responsibility is to ensure its conservation and restoration. In a spirit of national cohesion and generosity, seized by a form of heritage emotion, the French mobilized. They demonstrated their unity around part of France's history. This bill provides a concrete translation and framework for this strong and rare testimony. We must live up to this expression of unity. We felt it was essential to move quickly to secure and strengthen the dynamics of donations. The President of the Republic, fully appreciating the popular emotion and measuring the need to demonstrate our nation's ability to mobilize around a common goal, has declared himself for a restoration in five years. That is why this text, on an exceptional basis, removes certain constraints which are inadequate for such an exceptional construction site. We have heard and shared concerns about articles 8 and 9, which tend to empower the Government to make arrangements by order for the restoration work to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u52	More prescriptions, more prescriptions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u53	It is important to remain measured and to know why we should keep on the interpretation that some would like to make of these articles. It is not a question of derogating from the rules all azimuts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u54	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u55	... as some want to make it seem, but to adapt certain rules to the off-standard nature of the site. We welcome the Minister's commitment to rewrite these provisions so that they can be better framed. The scope of Article 9 will thus be clarified, in particular on the issue of advertising. As you know, Minister: our group wants to go further, particularly with respect to compliance with environmental standards, and has tabled a sub-amendment to that effect. Such a construction site is exceptional; adaptations must also be made. In order to respect the will of donors, we felt it necessary to support the work of the Monitoring Committee by strengthening certain transparency provisions in the text. We have established an independent scientific committee to make recommendations and make proposals for the work. An annual report will ensure transparency by taking stock of the use of donations: it will present annually the share and amount of donations and payments made under the national subscription. In response to the concerns raised by Articles 8 and 9, the National Assembly, under the leadership of the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, will establish an information mission to ensure its preparation and follow-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u56	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u57	All the guarantees of control and transparency are therefore made, under the impetus of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u58	Trust doesn't rule out control!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u59	Finally, I wish to return to our approach to this restoration and to the spirit that should guide us in this context. We are not architects here, but legislators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u61	It is not up to us to say which architectural project deserves to be retained. Those who are now amending by amendment to require a reconstruction of the arrow of our cathedral "in the same way" or "in the last visual aspect known before the sinister" could usefully read what his architect, Viollet-le-Duc, wrote: "Restore a building is not to maintain it, repair it or remake it, it is to restore it to a complete state that may have never existed at any given time. » This is how he proceeded to Notre-Dame de Paris. From the statues of the portals to the arrow, through the statues of the gallery of kings, the balustrade of the gallery of the Virgin and the chimeras of the towers, almost all the ornamentation of the cathedral was redone by the menu. Victor Hugo himself, in his description of the cathedral in the work bearing his name, defended an evolutionary conception of the monument. "The great buildings, like the great mountains, are the work of centuries. [...] Art nouveau takes the monument where it finds it, crept into it, assimilates it, develops it to its fantasy and finishes it if it can. [...] It is a graft that occurs, a sap that circulates, a vegetation that resumes. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u62	Mrs Bergé is Esmeralda tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u63	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group – Sophie Mette also applauds]] The day after the fire, we went to see Notre-Dame with a visceral need to see the story written in front of us. History has become a reality for us. Let us trust the wisdom of our contemporaries, as our predecessors have been able to trust the successive architects of the masterpiece that was built.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u64	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u65	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u66	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u67	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the fire brigade in Paris, which the minister of armies decorated yesterday for its courage and efficiency during this terrible fire. We are again considering the draft law for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris, due to the failure of the Joint Joint Committee on 4 June. We regret, colleagues of the majority, that you did not have the wisdom to follow the Senate, because the text adopted by senators was measured. We cannot resolve to allow the Government to derogate from the rules of the heritage concerning the restoration of Notre-Dame for all – I say all of them. Article 9, which many have considered unnecessary and dangerous, has even aroused the dismay of many heritage specialists, fearing that this exceptional law will hinder the quality of the site. Furthermore, Minister, why do you want to create a new public administrative establishment when the CMN and the OPPIC are generally empowered to manage this type of restoration and have largely proven their competence in this area? This cathedral is more than 800 years old; She's not five years away to regain her splendor. The haste of the President of the Republic is not a good thing, because the renovation works must be considered. Similarly, the architectural gesture and the competition announced by the Prime Minister have cause for concern. While the majority is the majority, it is not forbidden to listen to the opposition at times, especially when it is a monument to national unity. For proof, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region participated in the reconstruction in the amount of 3 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u68	We'd like to see those 3 million euros! Where's the check?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u69	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u70	The fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, which took place on 15 April, naturally aroused a great deal of emotion, not only in France, but also throughout the world. This extraordinary event has made the headlines in the European and international press. That evening, as with every tragedy that affects our country, it was national unity that made our hearts beat. It was our responsibility to preserve this national unity, and on this occasion I too would like to congratulate the firefighters in Paris. Our opposition group is making proposals, as it has done in the past and will always do. I urge the majority, as always, not to show partisan closure. Our Lady of Paris has passed through time. The cathedral has preceded us and it will survive us. It has resisted the hazards of centuries. We ask you, Minister, to be cautious and to apply the precautionary principle. I would not understand that you insist on exempting yourself from all the urban and heritage rules, as well as from the public procurement code. We say to you, "Pastiness! "; You answer with urgency: rebuild Notre-Dame de Paris in five years! Notre-Dame de Paris deserves better than a party debate, because it does not belong more to La République en marche than it belongs to the Republicans. On April 15, it was an intimate part of our culture that flew away. This accident has awakened the bond and carnal attachment that we maintain with our civilization, our heritage and our history. Our Lady of Paris was born nine centuries ago. Time has made this French jewel a treasure of humanity. I think, like the whole of my group, that we cannot appropriate the physiognomy of this cathedral. We must preserve French excellence. We must preserve the last known state. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Minister, do not sum up this debate to a quarrel between the old and the modern. It is not a question of coming back in time, but, on the contrary, of showing future generations that we have lived up to the immense task before us: to remain and to transmit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u71	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u72	On June 14, Minister, you said on a national channel that less than 10% of the funds promised for the reconstruction of Notre-Dame had actually been paid to date. The various foundations that called for donations have indeed collected about 80 million euros out of the 850 million promised. Most donations come from small and medium-sized donors, and I would like to share their concerns with you this evening. Many ordinary French people had decided, in recent weeks or months, to participate in this great collection – if you pass the phrase – with donations often very modest, of 10, 20, 50 or 100 euros. However, the fact that large donors have pledged large sums of around EUR 100 million or EUR 200 million today can discourage modest donors. They can say to themselves, as I have heard on the ground, in my department, that, since wealthy people will give a lot of money, they will finally give nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u73	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u74	You're right, Mrs. Boyer, it's too bad, but that's what we hear in the field. [[Brigitte Kuster applauds]] Minister, how are you going to reassure the modest people who wish to participate in this reconstruction in the face of the communication of the great donors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u75	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u76	Confounding speed and haste is an expression that has never been used as well as for this text, which aims to rebuild in just a few years what took so much longer to build. Like its towers that stand up, protective and immutable, crossing the ages and serving the French as reference points, while the history of France unfolded at their feet in tears and in blood, Notre-Dame is part of the long time, not in your politico-mediatic calendar. Is this, then, the respect that you show for what is, much more than a place of worship, one of the symbols of a national unity that, in a context of exacerbated individualism and self-absorbing, is being lost year after year? Is this the legacy you will leave? In the centuries to come, we will see in this reconstruction a flight forward to satisfy an ego. While the ashes are still warm and the emotion is intact in the eyes of the French in view of this sad spectacle, is this your sense of general interest and of the search for consensus? Our Lady is not yours, nor mys, nor the President of the Republic, but all the French, past and future. If you were aware of this, you would take your responsibility to history by first legislating without giving a blank-sing to the executive, then accepting the changes adopted by the upper house and finally taking the time to think and act. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Let us rise to these challenges and let us do it together because, for this cathedral to illuminate again Paris and the hearts of the French, you will have no choice but to do it with them, not against them. Let us begin now and remember Victor Hugo's sentence: "Time is the architect, the people is the mason. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u77	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u78	We all still have in mind these terrible images of the roof of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris in flames and its arrow falling on itself, threatening the entire building that could disappear completely. As practicing Catholics, simple believers or atheists, millions of French people shared a common feeling that evening: the sadness of seeing a part of what we are, of our history, of our common heritage disappear before their eyes. Yes, Notre-Dame de Paris is more than a cathedral dedicated to Catholic worship: it is also a symbol of our country, an inseparable part of the history of France. The momentum of immediate generosity, even before the launch of the major national subscription, bears witness to the French' commitment to this building. Beyond this cathedral, this momentum is a tremendous encouragement to renovate all of our endangered churches and heritage jewels in our territories. Here I would like to draw your attention to the case of the church of Saint-Martin de Bruay-la-Buissière, in the constituency of which I am elected, closed to the public since 2012 following the collapse of part of the ceiling. The renovation, with a cost of almost 3 million euros, has not yet started, and because of this: the city's debt as at 31 December 2018 amounted to 35 million euros. Although this religious building is not classified as a historic monument, it is of obvious heritage interest to the commune, and the inhabitants are rightly attached to it. Like many individuals and many heritage associations, we would like to see the possible surplus of donations paid to Notre-Dame de Paris be redirected to our heritage buildings, especially religious ones, which are so much in need of them, the first of which is the church of Saint-Martin de Bruay-la-Buissière. Let us never forget that we are the custodians of our heritage, with the mission of transmitting it in good condition of conservation to future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u79	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u80	As we have all said in this Chamber, the French have expressed, through all these acts of generosity, their strong attachment to our heritage, whether historical, cultural, artistic, cultural or religious. Our Lady symbolizes this attachment. So, minister, you will ask us three things. The first is obviously to restore this cathedral to the same name and not to free you from the usual heritage rules. The 1964 Venice Charter on the conservation and restoration of monuments and sites gives us a framework that must be respected. [[Smile]] We will also ask you to take advantage of this sad event to give concrete consideration, thanks to the possible surplus of donations, to the situation of our cultural heritage. I plead, if I may say so, for my parish, by mentioning the church of the Sacred Heart of Denain, the historic sanctuary of the miners of the North, shamefully abandoned by the city. I would also like to acknowledge Stéphane Bern's outstanding work and the effectiveness of his work. Finally, because we must live up to the generosity of the French, we ask you that the judicial investigation conducted to identify the causes of the fire at Notre-Dame de Paris be as transparent as possible. Yet, for two months, the most absolute silence was kept on its evolution. No press conference was held by the prosecutor, usually so quick to communicate. We have just been informed that the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office was opening up judicial information for involuntary destruction by fire, which excludes a priori, and we must rejoice, a criminal motive. On 25 June, after several weeks of investigation, 11025 procedural slips, 96 sealed and numerous hearings, the prosecutor told us that the cause of the fire was either an electrical malfunction or a badly extinguished cigarette. Minister, the donations of the French are binding on the public authorities, and the rule must be that of the most complete transparency on the developments of the judicial investigation. That's what we're asking you, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u81	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u82	On this last point, I would remind you that the secrecy of the investigation applies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u83	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] No! It doesn't exist in this country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u84	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u85	Yes, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u86	He's constantly being raped!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u87	On the other hand, of course, as he has done recently, the prosecutor will have the opportunity to express himself very clearly on the progress of the investigation or judicial investigation. With regard to Article 1, I would like to clarify the date on which donations were taken into account, which had been discussed at first reading. As I said in my opening remarks, the date for the launch of the national subscription is April 16, but the Minister of Public Affairs and Public Accounts has clearly assured me that donations made on April 15th at night, between the beginning of the fire and midnight, could be taken into account as part of the national subscription, and thus benefit from the 75% reduction rate under the conditions set out in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u88	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u89	Fortunately, yes, but I wanted to make it very clear today that it is not because the date in the text we are proposing is 16 April that those who gave the 15th after the start of the fire will not be able to benefit from the advantages granted under the national subscription. That was my first point. The second concerns small donors. Small rivers make the big rivers, and each donor can, regardless of the level of his or her potential contribution, participate in the collective effort for the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. There is no difference between large gifts and small ones: they are all important gifts in the service of the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. Nevertheless, we wanted to set a ceiling: donations will benefit from the specific tax reduction of 75%, up to a limit of EUR 1000. It seemed important to me to clarify that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u90	We come to the amendments to Article 1. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a total of almost 300 amendments to discuss this night, and it is eleven o'clock in the evening. I leave it to everyone to draw useful conclusions. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 158.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u91	Since the cultural and cultural influence of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris is international, it is necessary to extend the geographical area of the subscription. I recall once again that the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region will participate in the reconstruction of the building: it will help the regional artisans who will work on this project to the tune of 1 million euros; Another million euros will be allocated for training in heritage restoration trades; a third EUR 1 million envelope will be devoted to the completion of a fire safety diagnosis on the listed monuments of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u92	Mrs Anne Brugnera, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u93	I understand the meaning of the amendment, Mr Cinieri, but the subscription is said to be national because it is France which organises and manages it. In addition, it will allow for donations from abroad. The amendment is therefore satisfied. I'm asking for his withdrawal. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u94	I have before me eight identical amendments, Nos 13, 63, 136, 142, 173, 196, 224 and 279. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u95	Minister, words can fly away, while the writings remain. You wanted to reassure us as a result of the exchanges you had with your colleague Darmanin, but everyone should be reassured. The Senate, accustomed to wisdom, had planned to advance to April 15, the day of the drama, the date from which individuals could benefit from the tax reduction on their donation. However, the Committee on Cultural Affairs has returned to the original version, which refers to donations made from 16 April, which could penalize the first contributors. I am not sure that a minister's words are sufficient to validate an interpretation. I question the argument that the opening of the subscription on or after April 16 by this bill is already a retroactive measure. Frankly, are we close to a day?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u96	The minister has already responded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u97	[[Smile]] I note, Mr Minister, that the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education encourages you to give a favourable opinion... In any case, the momentum of generosity began even though the flames were not all extinguished. Also, let us respect the donors of the first hours as well as those of the next day; It's a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u98	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u99	Like our colleague Hervé Bazin...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u100	[[Laughs]] Thibault!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u101	Excuse me, my dear colleague! Like our colleague Thibault Bazin, I therefore hope that the date of the beginning of the subscription will be extended to 15 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u102	Amendment No 136 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart is being defended. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u103	It is certainly good, Minister, to announce that you have agreed with your colleague the Minister of Public Affairs and Public Accounts that donations made on April 15th in the evening will be subject to the 75% tax reduction. However, would it not be simpler – and I do not argue in any way – to replace, in Article 1, the date of 16 April with that of 15 April? It is, however, extraordinary that you accept the idea without wanting to modify the text accordingly. We do not understand this stubbornness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u104	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 173.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u105	I too would like to repeat what our colleagues have said, that the date of 15 April should be included in the text. I ask the minister to confirm that this date will be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u106	Amendments Nos 196 by Mrs Constance Le Grip and 224 by Mr Maxime Minot are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u107	Show that you're not so sectarian!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u108	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u109	I, too, have heard you, Minister, explain that donations made on April 15 could benefit from the tax reduction. The French will therefore not understand very well why, according to the text, these will be donations made from 16 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u110	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u111	This is neither very logical, nor very Cartesian, nor very pragmatic. [[Applause among non-attached Members. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] The simplest way is for you to adopt this series of identical amendments so that the tax reduction applies to donations made as early as 15 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u112	Make an effort, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u113	Don't worry about Mr. Darmanin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u114	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u115	I have spoken on this subject several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u116	And it won't be the last!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u117	Only the rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u118	You know the reason why the subscription is opened from 16 April: this is the date announced by the President of the Republic on the evening of the fire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u119	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u120	May I remind you that April 16 is the exact date of the end of the fire: it was extinguished on the 16th at two o'clock in the morning. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u122	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u123	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u124	I understand that we have some 300 amendments to consider. We're talking about Notre-Dame de Paris. So is it a matter of squandering the debate in one night? If you want to go into force and prolong the discussion, we may address articles 8 and 9, which are, I would remind you, the most problematic, at a very late hour. In any case, the argument you have just given us, Madam rapporteur, is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u125	Yes, ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u126	It's as if people were told to take fear at the sight of the flames of Notre-Dame to wait for the fire to be extinguished to make their donation in order to benefit from the tax reduction! Frankly, such an argument cannot be accepted in such a situation. You are creating a deeply unjust situation. If Minister Darmanin has had the reassuring response you have given us, let us amend the text. If we start this debate, Madam President, it will last much longer than one night.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u127	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Bazin, the information I gave at the beginning of the discussion of the amendments is factual. It is clear that everyone will speak as often as he wishes and as the Rules of Procedure allow. But let me remind you that we must complete our consideration of this text today, because it is not on the agenda tomorrow. It is therefore not a question of squandering the debate, but of how much time we intend to devote to it. Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u128	In this Chamber, we welcomed the unanimous reaction to the fire at Notre-Dame. We have seen a people – regardless of opinions, ages, religions... – show solidarity and generosity. But we are going to give an image of the most grotesque for reasons of susceptibility: we should submit to the letter to the presidential speech, which is not really important in this matter. We are going to give the image of a Parliament arguing on a date, when you could be magnanimous and contribute to national unity by accepting these amendments, thus showing that the entire national representation has agreed on an important provision. As for the rapporteur's argument, it is of total emptiness. To maintain this position on the pretext that the fire was extinguished on 16 April is really not to rise to the level that should be that of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u129	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u130	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u131	It goes without saying that, as early as April 15, very early in the evening, it was known that the damage would be terrible; So people made donations, from that moment on, for the reconstruction of the cathedral. If you want to give details, you should be very pointy, Madam rapporteur, you should acknowledge that donors were honest in their approach and that it is logical that they enjoy exactly the same advantages as others, especially since their merit may even be greater since they were the first to give. We didn't have to wait until the fire ended to find out how large the site would be. That is why your only argument, that of the date of the end of the fire, is absolutely untenable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u132	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u133	Following the opening remarks on section 1, the Minister publicly assured, in agreement with Gérald Darmanin, that there was no problem in taking into account the donations that would have been made on April 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u134	So vote on our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u135	I didn't interrupt you, dear colleague. Currently, the President of the Republic announced the launch of a national subscription on 16 April, not on 15 April; But you are as attached to the facts as we are to the facts. In addition, you have just had a commitment from the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u136	What if he announced the subscription on April 17th?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u137	We have already discussed this in committee, Mr Minot, but we can indeed devote as much time to it as you wish. In any event, the Minister's commitment will be included in the record of the proceedings. As for the subscription, I insist, it was created on 16 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u138	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u139	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to take note of the Minister's remarks, so that we can, as Mr Bazin has suggested, approach the substance of the text with the most precise discussion possible on the Government's amendments to Articles 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u140	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u141	As we will see earlier, I am not in favour of optimising the tax reduction. However, Article 1 states that "a national subscription shall be opened as from 16 April 2019". It seems to me complicated to open a subscription before the event that it concerns... Then, the Official Bulletin of Public Finance-Taxes, the BOFIP, which is authoritative at the time each person makes his or her tax return, will specify that these donations are eligible for the tax reduction because they comply with the subscription – I heard what the minister said about it. This discussion is a little unreal, if not useless. There was an announcement from the President of the Republic. However, as is often noted in tax matters, an announcement sets the application of the text over time. Thus, when a Council of Ministers makes an announcement regarding the Finance Bill, the mechanism is often applied retroactively from the date of the announcement. From my point of view, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u142	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u143	The voice of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u144	As Mr Thibault Bazin pointed out, this debate is beginning very badly. You tell us, minister, that your colleague Minister of Public Action and Accounts agrees that donations made on April 15 will also benefit from the tax reduction. Only, you do not want to change the date referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u145	Call Mr. Darmanin, minister, so do something!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u146	And you tell us, Mr. President Studer, with all the esteem I have for you, that the President of the Republic has committed himself. But how long has the presidential word had the force of law? Thus, since the President said that the cathedral had to be rebuilt in five years, we will rebuild it in five years, even if we do something great – like this exceptional law drafted in haste. You're not able to be pragmatic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u147	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u148	I do not know whether the problem concerns many people and whether the sum involved is important, but it is a matter of principle, as we approach the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u149	You have to be honest!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u150	This issue of date does not involve the whole project. Your attitude is now the same for every text we examine. The fact that you are not able to hear the opposition on such a subject raises questions – and I believe, minister, that you have been in the opposition. In any case, I cannot hear that we must submit to the words of the President of the Republic because, I repeat, he also stated that we should rebuild Notre-Dame in five years, which may not be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u151	It's up to the deputies to decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u152	So show more humility and respect. Listen to what is said on the various benches of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u153	I have before me three amendments, Nos 7, 88 and 159, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 88 and 159 are identical. Amendments Nos 7 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and 88 by Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont are defended. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u154	He tends to specify that the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris will be done identically.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u155	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u156	As the issue of identical restoration will come back several times during the discussion of the text, I will focus on it a little. The wording has also been modified in some amendments, which tend to impose restoration "in its last known state" or "in the last known visual state before the disaster". It is normal for everyone to have an opinion on this subject, which has given rise to a lot of ink and which we have already mentioned at length at first reading and in committee. The architects and heritage restoration specialists we auditioned stated that an identical restoration was impossible, for several reasons. It is impossible to find the same materials, you will agree, and methods have evolved. The most important remains the condition of the building. The diagnosis is not yet established: we do not know how damaged the structure has been; We don't know if it will be able to support a new frame – still to know in which materials – or a new roof – again, in what materials? Finally, it will surely be necessary to adapt the building to a new fire safety. I have retained from these hearings that, in order to renovate a historical monument, it is necessary each time to study its history, the sense of its construction, its environment. It is also noteworthy that, during the restoration work of the churches bombed during the war, architects and heritage professionals have often made very different choices from one church to another: sometimes that of a restoration identical or in the aspect as close as possible to the previous state; sometimes that of modern reconstruction; sometimes the one to leave the church in the state in which it was located. Because heritage professionals, they did so in every case with full knowledge of the facts. [[Mrs AuroreBergéapplaudit]] The emotion caused by the fire of Notre-Dame de Paris probably arouses this desire to find it as we knew it; The French are very attached to this cathedral, as we know. However, I do not consider it up to parliamentarians to decide how to restore it. We are fortunate, in France, to have professionals for this. Let the experts do it. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u158	I should like to add to the arguments put forward, quite rightly, by the rapporteur whom the National Assembly adopted, at first reading, an amendment by Mr Gérard. The latter supplemented Article 2 with a paragraph under which "the conservation and restoration work of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris financed under the national subscription mentioned in the first paragraph is intended to preserve the historical, artistic and architectural interest of the monument". It is thus guaranteed that the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris will respect these three requirements. There is a whole debate to be conducted together, which will allow each and every one to express calmly his vision of restoration. Does our Lady of Paris have to be restored exactly as she was, knowing that this may not be possible, since the materials will probably be different? When the time comes, a decision will be taken in a very transparent manner. It will draw on the advice of the National Heritage and Architecture Commission and the advice of experts who will advise or work with the public institution. We will make the decision in conscience, when the time comes, after a broad debate in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u159	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u160	I am surprised by your arguments, rapporteur. You argue that the restoration will not be exactly the same. Thank you, ma'am, we did not stay completely: we understood that in 2019 it is not possible to reconstruct exactly the same cathedral! You consider that our opinion as parliamentarians does not count, that it is not up to us to decide. But your opinion is no more than ours, dear colleague. So your argument falls on its own. Amendment No 7 makes sense: it sets out in the text an objective, that of an identical reconstruction. We defend an architectural, aesthetic logic. The amendment must be voted on today to affirm this logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u161	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u162	I am surprised once again at the progress of the debates. Madam rapporteur, you have just read a detailed answer to the amendments calling for identical restoration. While Thibault Bazin has not yet tabled his amendment referring to the "last known visual state before the disaster", your argument gently mixes the various amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u163	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u164	Yet, these are distinct proposals. And, Minister, you are following in the footsteps of the rapporteur. You don't care about the difference between the two notions. Some Members have ruled out the idea of restoration "in the same way" because it does not mean anything legally. In committee, we proposed the notion of "last visual state", aware that the frame may not be rebuilt in the same wood.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u165	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u166	Most French people want a restoration faithful to the image they have kept in memory. Under no circumstances can this be done with the same materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u167	We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u168	Take the trouble of responding to the amendments that are being tabled and be careful to anticipate them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u170	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u171	I regret, Madam rapporteur, Mr Minister, that your answers do not allow us to know what you are thinking. Those who listen to us will know that we wish, for our part, a restoration in an aspect as close as possible to the last known state of the monument, as it should be. When I listen to you, I understand that you open the door to changes of which we do not know the nature or the modalities. Once again, you will no doubt bow to the presidential will, to the Jewish will. That's not the way to please us. A bill dedicated to Notre-Dame that does not allow the principles governing restoration to be established seems to me pointless.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u172	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u173	Brigitte Kuster announced this amendment before its consideration. Before you tell us "move, there is nothing to see, I have already answered," you should know that this amendment is different from the previous one: it refers to the "last known visual state before the sinister" and it is actually the objective of restoration. This allows for the possibility of using other materials. The question asked is that of the image, of the objective, knowing that we have a responsibility: we must know the purposes of the national subscription that we are launching, in other words the objective set for the use of the funds collected. I would like to see no confusion between the roles of the executive and Parliament. The words of the President of the Republic are not valid.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u174	That's why we're legislating! That's why we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u175	The presidential speech is not infallible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u176	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u177	If donations have been made even before the start of the national subscription announced by the President of the Republic, the national representative may decide that they will be taken into account by considering that the donors wanted to contribute to such subscription. A little earlier, a colleague rejected the possibility of amending Article 1. However, national representation will amend the article if it considers it appropriate. As we begin this discussion, it is important that national representation pronounce on what is good for the country and for Notre-Dame, without referring to the presidential word, because I do not believe in the infallibility of the President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u178	I never believed it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u179	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 172 and 247. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 172.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u180	It aims to clarify that the restoration of the cathedral must be done in accordance with the Venice Charter, in order to protect it from any ambition of "architectural gesture".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u181	Amendment No 247 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u182	France is a signatory to the Venice Charter. It is not necessary to mention it in the law because we are required to apply it. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u183	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 15, 26 and 123. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u184	The relevance of the second paragraph of Article 1 may be questioned. The amendment is intended to delete it, as it raises concerns about the dispossession of the competent authorities in favour of a controlled mechanism from the highest state level. Indeed, it is hardly necessary to place the national subscription under the high authority of the President of the Republic. If the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris is the responsibility of the State, there is no need to customize the device. It's a matter of common sense. Our Lady belongs not to the President of the Republic, but to the whole country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u186	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u187	The tragedy of Notre-Dame sparked national communion and momentum of solidarity. Very generous donations were made to rebuild the cathedral. A large national subscription has therefore been launched. The money collected will be used to restore the damaged part of the cathedral and to ensure long-term security. Through this bill, you intend to give exceptional power to the President of the Republic by placing the national subscription under his high authority. Paragraph 2 is intended to give it formal authority, power and competence that go beyond the honorary and symbolic framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u188	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u189	The national subscription must not suffer any appropriation. Why not consider placing it under the authority of the National Assembly and the Senate, which represent the people and the territories, therefore the subscribers? Indeed, the national subscription concerns all the institutions and the French; It must not be taken over by the President of the Republic. It is important to involve the representatives of the people, so that the restoration and preservation of this jewel of heritage is supervised in the most democratic way possible. I would remind you that this solution was already adopted in 1983 in favour of French Polynesia, in order to deal with the numerous damage caused by cyclones. The French should have a right of control over the use of funds collected in the context of this national subscription. We refuse to allow it to be taken over by the President of the Republic or placed under his sole authority. We are still in a parliamentary system. Notre-Dame de Paris must not become Notre-Dame de l'Élysée! It is very sad to see that the debate is now overtaken in this way. I do not understand how such appropriation can occur, when emotion is national and transcends our borders – we have emphasized it on all benches – and that Our Lady belongs to all the French. Parliament would grow by changing this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u190	Macron is capable of com' on everything, including on a cathedral!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u191	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u192	The purpose of this amendment is to delete paragraph 2 of Article 1. We have succeeded each other in the gallery to say this: Whatever our spiritual convictions and the place where we live, we have all been touched by the tragedy of this cathedral, which belongs to everyone. In a very small way in view of the greatness of this monument, you support the symbolic and political capture of this solidarity by the President of the Republic alone. Have we ever known this in the history of our country? No. Never since 1945, a subscription has been placed under the high authority of the President of the Republic. In 1983, it was recalled, a subscription was placed under the high authority of the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate. In 1980, the subscription in favour of a monument to the memory of the Marshal of Lattre de Tassigny was placed under the high patronage – which is not the same – of the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, be proud of the mandate given to you. We are a collegiate body; There are 577 of us representing the French people. Where would the need arise to entrust this authority to one man? Let us put an end to this presidential monarchy that is becoming absurd! Be proud of yourself and those who elected you! Don't accept this way of lowering yourself! And don't tell me President Macron has committed himself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u193	He was elected, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u194	Of course, but I remind you of us too. Why, in a country of 65 million inhabitants, should solidarity that transcends borders be placed under the responsibility of one man?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u195	Thank you, Mr. Corbière...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u196	That is a matter of substance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u197	Of course, but you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u198	I wish to prevent Parliament from being debilitated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u199	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u200	This debate has already taken us a long time at first reading. Our Lady is a heritage jewel. The tragedy has affected one of the symbols of our nation and aroused a strong emotion in France and beyond our borders. In our institutions, however, it is the President of the Republic who embodies national unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u201	Under what provisions does the President embody national unity? Where is it written?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u202	Putting the subscription under the high authority of the President of the Republic demonstrates the desire to make this restoration a national priority. That is why I believe it is necessary to retain this provision. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u203	You wouldn't do the same if it was about Nicolas Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u205	I am a little surprised that this part of the text does not reach consensus,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u206	Delete the paragraph if you want a consensus!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u207	...for two reasons. First, it was the President of the Republic who announced, on the evening of 15 April, the opening of a national subscription – this fact is indisputable. It is therefore legitimate to mention this in the text. Secondly, he is the head of State and indeed represents the entire nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u208	It had escaped us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u209	It guarantees the proper functioning of our institutions and represents the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u210	He called for a vote for Nathalie Loiseau in the European elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u211	Don't get upset, it won't change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u212	Mr. Corbière, please! Only Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u213	He's saying things wrong! He took sides!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u214	Mr. Corbière, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u215	Therefore, placing the national subscription under the authority of the Head of State – which displeases you, but he is the Head of State, elected by the French – is a strong symbol: it means that the State, in the person of its most eminent representative, wishes that this subscription will allow the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris, to the satisfaction of the expectations of the French. I think it's a beautiful symbol, which should unite the nation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u216	It's recovery!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u217	...so its representatives. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u218	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u219	What our colleagues have said is true: it is never before seen. Our country has experienced the destruction of great monuments, which have aroused emotion – one can think of the Baltard pavilions or the castle of Amboise. The name of a President of the Republic has never been associated with one of these monuments. What you are actually doing – and it's a little petty, let me tell you – is trying to recover the event to basically link Emmanuel Macron's name to the reconstruction of Notre-Dame.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u220	He's our President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u221	This is petty because it goes against the will of the French. Mrs Valérie Boyer has said it with talent, you are trying to grab the emotion of the French to engrave in the marble the name of Emmanuel Macron alongside that of Notre-Dame. However, the two are not exactly to be placed at the same level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u222	It's not Emmanuel Macron, it's the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u223	The king's two bodies...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u224	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u225	We will not be able to convince each other. You regret, Minister, the lack of consensus on this matter. However, we propose the consensus: delete this provision! It cannot be done around the idea that we must all disappear behind the President of the Republic. You have put forward the argument that the President represents the entire nation. I answered you – not respecting my speaking time; I apologise, Madam President – whom he called a few weeks ago to vote for a specific list in the European elections. He thus demonstrated that he assumed a partisan role, which was not that of representative of the nation. I don't blame him, but he can't wear two caps at once. That is why we ask you, in the face of this immense event, not to stifle national solidarity. Don't try to get it back. Be big! Be generous for once! Don't do a political operation! My words make you laugh, and I know you're used to obey the President of the Republic, but you're deputies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u226	That's the paradox!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u227	Be proud of yourself! The people are here! He's not represented by a single man.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u228	We're trying to help you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u229	For my part, I do not like this conception. I even think that at the foundation of our sovereignty and the greatness of our history lies our refusal to be represented by a prince; representation is national. In the face of such an event, let us remain faithful to our history. Delete this paragraph, let's get together. Why are you stubborn?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u230	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u231	It is still curious that the fire of Notre-Dame, which has touched the hearts of all the French, has sparked such a debate in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u232	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u233	A national subscription has been launched and donations have been made, by the most modest as well as by very prominent people. We are representatives of the people in the National Assembly. By placing this national subscription under the authority of Parliament, we would encourage popular appropriation; We would join in a logic of gathering, of national unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u234	National gathering!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u235	You supposedly want to restore Parliament's authority. Why don't you use this symbol, which would link us to the past, to the present, to the future and, above all, to the popular movement that this fire caused among the French? We could lead this reconciliation together. For once, you could reach out to the opposition. We have voted a large number of your texts – 41% to date – while less than 1% of our proposals have found thanks to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u236	[[Smile]] That's because they're very sectarian!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u237	This symbolic measure would allow us to establish a link between Parliament and popular subscription. In addition, Parliament would show its unity and exercise its full role on this occasion. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Such a symbol would be consistent with the status of Notre-Dame de Paris, which belongs to the whole of France and to all the French, as they have proven. I really find it a shame that you don't get that hand out of hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u238	I have before me three amendments, Nos 111, 234 and 160, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u239	Its objective is substantially the same as that of the previous amendments. The Minister has expressed his astonishment, but we are equally surprised by your stubbornness and your refusal to hear the arguments put forward by all political groups, except the majority group. I will not repeat those that have already been put forward: the role of Parliament is essential; the National Assembly is the soul and voice of the people, and the Senate, the soul and the voice of the elected; the assemblies have competence to manage this subscription; the idea of recovery by the President does not suit us, as the examples of the past have shown that it was quite possible to proceed otherwise. We all ask you to change your brace and to hear our request that this subscription be placed, as has been the case in the past, under the authority of the presidents of the assemblies, rather than under the authority of the President of the Republic. Your proposal is unanimous against her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u240	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u241	We have difficulty following you and understanding your stubbornness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u242	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 234.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u243	It differs slightly from that of Mrs Victory, who proposed to place the national subscription under the authority of the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate. To echo the desire for collegiality, we propose to place it, among other things, under the authority of a college composed of five members and five senators. This would make it possible to involve Parliament in the supervision of this subscription for restoration and conservation work. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this would really be a strong signal of national unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u244	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 160.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u245	An emblematic monument of our country, Our Lady is above all a place of worship. It should be recalled that the subscription must also be placed under the high authority of the archbishop of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u247	The National Assembly and the Senate will be associated through the follow-up committee provided for in Article 7. This will give them a role of control, which is more important to them, it seems to me. As for the Archbishop of Paris, I am not aware of such a request from him. Moreover, this provision would obviously be contrary to article 1 of the Constitution. I express an unfavorable opinion on the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u248	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u249	The temptation would be great to think that we are worth more and better than those men of the twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth centuries who, year after year, gave their lives so that Our Lady could be what she was two and a half months ago. Let us not forget what their intentions were: neither their own glory, nor wealth, not even fame, but the construction of a cathedral to the glory of God. The temptation of our time would be to build something else, again, that belongs to a world that wants to be modern, to honor a government that would come to the aid of Our Lady, so that the foot of a well-known architect would be associated with this reconstruction that would be in the wind. In his book published for the benefit of the reconstruction and restoration of Notre-Dame, Sylvain Tesson writes: "Anonymity goes well to cathedrals. No signature of famous characters is associated with their edification. ... No one to honour, no memory to celebrate. We wouldn't be able to mention ten artisans who raised Notre-Dame. » Our Lady has lived through the centuries, in all her majesty. Above all, it remained what it was built for: one of Christendom's lungs. For Notre-Dame, you have to choose the restoration. We must show humility and modesty in the face of a monument of more than eight centuries. If Notre-Dame is the most visited monument of France and even of Europe, it is good that there is a mystery, which must be preserved. Our Lady will no longer be Our Lady if she doesn't look like what she was. It must become this forest again, in which the French can take refuge, far from the chahut of the city. It must remain this spiritual lightning, with its still whole cock and its three relics – a small plot of the holy crown of thorns, a relic of Saint Denis and one of Saint Geneviève. Our Lady must remain visually the one we love so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u250	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u251	Article 2 concerns the allocation of funds raised. A debate will necessarily open on the architectural party that will be taken for the restoration of the monument. Allow me to welcome the National Assembly's choice to include a provision that the works must preserve "the historical, artistic and architectural interest of the monument." The Senate has debated this issue at length; We'll get back to it. In any case, we must clearly recall one point: given its exceptional universal value, the cathedral is consubstantial to the inscription of the banks of the Seine to the UNESCO World Heritage Site. To put it simply, the restoration of Notre-Dame concerns not only the cathedral, but also its integration into the landscape of the banks of the Seine. Moreover, the arrow of Notre-Dame was designed by Viollet-le-Duc and Lassus to be in harmony with that of the Sainte-Chapelle, these two twin sisters constituting the two masts of the ship formed by the island of la Cité. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not up to us to define a plan for the restoration of Notre-Dame; We are not architects, let them decide. Nevertheless, we must be careful to preserve the timeless character of the cathedral and not take its appearance to make it a physical and temporal marker of a political mandate or an era. The cathedral has preceded us, it will survive us, it has resisted the hazards of centuries. It therefore seems to me important to respect both its original silhouette and its destiny. If I may, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I invite you to continue the examination of the text without showing the stubbornness that you have shown both on the date and on the authority of the President of the Republic. The cathedrals, which are one of the beating hearts of France, have always been built anonymously. It would be a bad tone, after the national unity caused by the shock of his fire, to make Notre-Dame de Paris, through its restoration, Notre-Dame du Président de la République or Notre-Dame de l'Élysée. I think that we must break with this trend, which is deadly for Parliament and for the restoration of the cathedral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u252	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u253	Allow me here to refer to an amendment that was particularly dear to my heart; I regret that he did not cross the admissibility barrier. It provided that, in the event that the total amount of funds raised under the national subscription to finance the preservation and restoration of the cathedral would exceed the cost of the said works, the surplus would be paid to the municipalities of less than 3500 inhabitants, with a view to restoring the churches. Even though the cost of the restoration of Notre-Dame will not be known until the chief architect of the historical monuments has established a complete and precise diagnosis, the generosity of the French has already manifested itself. The shift from surplus to rural communities is necessary, as they do not always have sufficient resources to safeguard their churches. These are in danger, as evidenced by the success of the heritage lottery. In Etouy, a municipality in my constituency, it is necessary to redo the roof of the church. However, municipal finances cannot be enough. The state is making a contribution through the provision of equipment in rural areas – DETR – but we need to go further. Therefore, Minister, I invite you to consider this proposal very seriously if there is to be a surplus of funding for Notre-Dame. This measure would not distort the purpose of the gift, namely the preservation of the heritage. I am sure that this appeal from an elected member of a rural constituency is likely to win the support of a large number of us, on whatever bench they sit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u254	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u255	My speech will be at the margin of Mr. Minot's. I have already mentioned the discouragement of some modest citizens wishing to contribute to the rehabilitation of Notre-Dame in the face of the contributions of the great donors. Others, whom I hear on the ground, would like to be sure that the sums they pay will actually be directed towards the restoration of the building. I therefore do not assume that the funds would exceed the needs. I just want to make sure that all the donations made by the French, whatever their amount, will really be oriented towards the work at Notre-Dame de Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u256	We come to the amendments to Article 2. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u257	It aims to ensure that the funds raised under the national subscription can only be used for the restoration and conservation of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and its furniture, as well as for the training of professionals with the particular skills that will be required for this work. The payments and donations made by the French must be returned in full to the restoration and conservation of the cathedral. It is essential to engrave this provision in the marble of the law, in order to guarantee its commitment. It would be in phase, Minister, with your comments transcribed in Le Parisien of 1 May: "The management of these donations will be completely transparent. They will go to Notre-Dame de Paris, not to anything else. We can't betray donors who help the cathedral, but perhaps don't want to give for another monument. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u259	I fully understand the meaning of the amendment and your desire to limit the use of funds. This is what Article 2 provides for, which explicitly states the purpose of the donations: the conservation and restoration work of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and its state-owned furniture, as well as the training of professionals with the particular skills that will be required for this work. Since this list is exhaustive, the amendment seems to me to be satisfactory. So I suggest you remove it. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u260	What if there's money left?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u262	I have said this several times publicly, both in this chamber and here: don't betray donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u264	The sums paid as part of the subscription will therefore be used for the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. It is written very clearly in the text, and I have said so. But if you think, honourable Member, that adding "exclusively" brings additional security, I see no problem with the adoption of the amendment. I therefore rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u265	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u266	And if it turned out at the end of the work that the amount of funds collected is higher than the actual needs, what would be the remaining amount that would be found by Bercy's services? Can you shed some light on this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u267	Mr. Minister doesn't look very enlightened...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u268	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u269	It is, of course, too early to say that there will be a balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u270	It didn't escape me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u271	However, in order to avoid any ambiguity, this seems to me to be in line with your wishes. I recall that we have not yet been able to establish the overall health status of Notre-Dame de Paris, nor the list of the necessary works, nor a fortiori their amount. We have always made it clear that all donations would be used for restoration and good maintenance in the long time of Notre-Dame de Paris. The sums paid will therefore be dedicated to the cathedral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u272	What if there's money left?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u273	I just answered you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u274	One party will go to the interview, which amounts to betraying the will of donors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u275	Unanimous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u276	Identical amendments No 91 by Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, 161 by Mr Dino Cinieri, 236 by Mr Julien Aubert and 268 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u277	I have before me three amendments, No 218 corrected, No 274 and No 1, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 218 corrected by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 274.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u278	I stress the vital importance of returning Notre-Dame de Paris to the last known visual state, that of before the fire. After this tragedy that has changed beyond our borders, projects that are all more farfelus than each other have been proposed: gardens on the roofs, golden flame, arrow and glass vault, and I pass by. So many projects that would disfigure Our Lady and, for some, made forget that, while the cathedral is a historical monument belonging to our heritage, it is perhaps above all a place of worship for Catholics, a living place of worship, animated by many daily religious services, where believers like to pray and passers-by meditate. It is with respect for this spirit that Notre-Dame de Paris must be restored. I agree that in recent weeks we have been reassured about the way Notre-Dame is protected and consolidated, with thoroughness and professionalism at all times. We also had the chance to audition, a few days ago, Mr. Philippe Villeneuve, chief architect of historical monuments in charge of the restoration of the cathedral, who does not hide his will to save everything that can be done to rebuild as close as possible to what Notre-Dame was. This is obviously a very good thing. "At the same time," according to the consecrated expression, all the very amazing ideas that emerged and were published in the press damaged the spirit of generosity inspired by Notre-Dame on the evening of the drama. Currently, 90 per cent of donations remain in a state of promise. The French clearly need to be reassured. A good way to start, so that they can give with confidence, is to specify that Notre-Dame de Paris will be restored, rebuilt, renovated as it was before the fire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u279	On Amendment No 1, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u280	As we have already pointed out during the examination of article 1, it is important to restore Notre-Dame in its last known visual state before the sinister. The Republican Group wishes to include this clarification in section 2, as honourable senators had done, knowing that the wording we are proposing leaves it open to experts to choose the right materials and techniques. We would thus go in the direction of the national will, since the majority of French people, in a recent poll, voted for a restitution of the cathedral in its last visual aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u281	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u282	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u284	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u285	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u286	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 75 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 21 Against 54
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u287	I call Mr Chenu to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u288	In the aftermath of the fire, the Prime Minister announced the organization of an architectural competition for the reconstruction of the building's arrow, mentioning the possibility of reconstructing an arrow adapted to the techniques and challenges of our time. On the same day, the President of the Republic expressed his wish that a contemporary architectural gesture could be considered. Unfortunately, the main thing that history will remember about our time, about Notre-Dame de Paris, is the fire that ravaged a large part of it. Let us therefore show humility with regard to the past and our history. The Charter of Venice of 1964, ratified by France, defines the principles of restoration and imposes certain constraints, in particular the restoration of historical monuments in their last known state. It also states that "the valid contributions of all epochs to the building of a monument must be respected" and that "[The restoration] is intended to preserve and reveal the aesthetic and historical values of the monument and is based on respect for the ancient substance and authentic documents. » The arrow built by Viollet-le-Duc is, of course, a "valid contribution" to the monument. On the other hand, we have a precise knowledge of all the elements of the arrow, which are very well referenced, and we have all the techniques to reconstruct it in the same way. Many personalities and specialists spoke for the so-called reconstruction of the entire building, including the arrow. This is particularly the case of Philippe Villeneuve, chief architect of historical monuments and responsible for the restoration of the cathedral since 2013; For him, the arrow must be reconstructed identically. It should also be remembered that, according to a survey by the Huffington Post, more than one Frenchman in two wants the cathedral to be reconstructed in the same way. The aim of the amendment is to ensure the preservation of the original state of the cathedral before the fire and to allow the identical restoration of this building, without modification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u290	The text already provides that the works aim to preserve "the historical, artistic and architectural interest of the monument". I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u291	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 182.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u292	During the first reading of the bill, senators passed an amendment stating that the preservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris should respect "the last known visual state before the sinister." The aim of this amendment is to clarify that the works must preserve the visual aspect inside and outside the monument, so that the modifications made cannot alter the beauty of the architecture as we knew it before the fire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u294	I remind you that the diagnosis of the damage and the work to be carried out has not yet been carried out, as you know. For the time being, architects are still in the process of implementing emergency measures aimed at preserving the cathedral from further deterioration. It seems premature to include such an objective in the law, because it is the architects – the chief architects of historical monuments, of course – who will be able to propose avenues for restoration as soon as the diagnosis has been made. My opinion will therefore be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u295	Amendment No 50 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u296	I have before me four amendments, Nos 108, 154, 197 and 174, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 108, 154 and 197 are identical. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 108.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u297	He restored the version of the Senate, which clarifies the nature of the work covered by the concept of conservation: it is the work of securing, stabilizing and consolidating the building. On the other hand, the current maintenance of the building and the operating costs, which fall within the competence of the State, are excluded. Clearly, the funds collected under the national subscription must be used exclusively for the financing of operations made indispensable by the fire, and not for missions normally entrusted to the State as the owner of the monument. My amendment therefore seeks, in Article 2, to insert a paragraph after paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u298	Amendment No 154 by Mr Le Fur is being defended. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 197.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u299	It tends to prevent the State from withdrawing from its obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u300	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u301	I look back on what my colleague Constance Le Grip has said to make it clear that this amendment is intended to prevent the State from withdrawing from its current maintenance obligations, i.e. from its operating expenses, which fall within its competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u302	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u303	This clarification appears superfluous, since the responsibility for the current maintenance of the cathedral lies with the State in terms of its ordinary competence and it has never been asked to withdraw from it. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u304	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u305	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u306	I have before me eleven amendments, Nos 273, 141, 198, 222, 245, 78, 139, 138, 171, 264 and 230, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 141, 198, 222 and 245 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 138 and 171. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 273.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u307	With this amendment, I would like to return to the wording of paragraph 2 of section 2 adopted by the Senate. It seems to me more precise and more complete, and it would have the merit of reassuring a large number of French people worried about restoration and sometimes farfelus projects – I have already had the opportunity to mention them – that have been able to circulate in the press and on the Internet. To refer explicitly to the Charter of Venice of 1964 seems all the more relevant to me as it raises the debate from its preamble in these terms: "Done with a spiritual message of the past, the monumental works of the peoples remain in life present the living witness of their centuries-old traditions. Article 9, which is devoted to restoration, states that it "is an operation which must remain exceptional in character" and which is "for the purpose of preserving and revealing the aesthetic and historical values of the monument and is based on respect for the ancient substance and authentic documents". The Parisians, and more generally the French, as well as all tourists of the world who still come to admire this majestic cathedral, expect to discover the cathedral itself, not anything else. It is therefore necessary to be very clear, and that was the merit of the drafting of article 2 adopted by the Senate: conservation and restoration work "restore the monument in the last known visual state before the sinister." Returning Notre-Dame de Paris to the same level is all the more necessary as we have all the necessary and possible know-how in France for this. I confess my incomprehension: instead of a detailed and clear wording of Article 2, the majority prefers a drafting without consistency, rather vagueness and leaving us on our hunger. At the same time, the fact that only 9 per cent of pledges have yet to be met may be due to the fact that donors are not yet fully reassured about how all these funds will be used. However, it is not too late to vote on this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u308	Mr Le Fur's amendment No 141 is being defended. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u309	It tends to reintroduce into the text that we are debating this evening some very interesting contributions introduced by the Senate, which are aimed at ensuring respect for the Venice Charter and the application of the Convention on the Protection of the World, Cultural and Natural Heritage of UNESCO. It is an explicit requirement that conservation and restoration work "restore the monument in the last known visual condition prior to the disaster." If we have heard the rapporteur's explanations just now – or rather the language elements she has read – I still wish that we have in mind here tonight the terms of the interview given at Figaro on 3 June by Philippe Villeneuve, the chief architect of the historical monuments in charge of Notre-Dame de Paris. To those of us who have not yet become aware of it, I warmly recommend that we read it in full. He explicitly pronounces himself on the last visual state, known to him as a rule imposed by the Charter of Venice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u310	That's not what she says.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u311	He does not chew these words as to his wish to see, for example, the arrow restored identically. When the group of heritage studies, which I have the honour of co-chairing with our colleague Raphaël Gérard, heard him, he did not deny his remarks: on the contrary, he explained and developed them. The desire of many of us, representatives of the nation, to include in the law the mention of the last visual state known as the guiding principle of restoration, seems to me a movement carrying a very strong ambition, moreover shared by specialists, and not least, in particular known and recognized architects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u312	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u313	The adoption of the amendment would also send a message about something that is unfortunately not within our purview: the draft arrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u314	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 222.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u315	My colleague Constance Le Grip has just mentioned a common will, and I think we could be proud to have done a joint job. You cannot say, Madam rapporteur, that we cannot include in the bill concerning the restoration of Notre-Dame the elements contained in this amendment, on the pretext that work to protect the building is still under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u316	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u317	Who are we laughing at? You yourself indicate that the chief architect of historic monuments will decide what to do. On that account, don't make any text! Don't make any text! Don't talk to Parliament! Do not launch subscriptions so that the majority of French people feel concerned! It's totally useless! So you're going to work in isolation. We would just like you to understand that it is necessary to establish a framework and that the International Charter of Venice, adopted in 1964, precisely protects for the future the building in question as it was visually before this sinister fire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u318	She doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u319	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam rapporteur, listen to what you are told: it is not up to the chief architect to decide how to restore. We will not give the keys to Parliament; We are indeed legislators and we can include this provision in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u321	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 245.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u322	It concerns respect for the principles of UNESCO and the Venice Charter of 1964. I recall that the announcement by the President of the Republic of the launch of an international architectural competition, which seems to have finally turned into a competition of ideas, raised concerns about the possibility of an architectural gesture that would be carried out on the occasion of the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. This announcement asks the following question, which trace should be left of the disaster of April 15, 2019? If an architectural gesture may prove necessary in the course of reconstruction work following an armed conflict, because it participates in the duty of memory, this is not necessarily the case after a disaster such as that suffered by Notre-Dame de Paris. Let us recall that Notre-Dame was a decisive element in justifying the inscription in 1991 of the property "Paris, Rives de la Seine" as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Yet this classification has not been taken into account in the bill, probably in haste and because the precautionary principle has not been applied. Our legislation, particularly comprehensive and protective, had so far been put forward by the authorities to UNESCO in order to ensure that the exceptional universal value of the property "Paris, banks of the Seine" would be properly protected. Suspend the application of a number of provisions could pose a threat to the continued registration of this building. Our Lady's work requires humility, expertise and method: it is important to allow specialists, i.e. architects, engineers and builders, time to make a diagnosis in order to determine what can really be put in place. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The cathedral, in its capacity as jewel of Gothic architecture, is mentioned among the criteria that justified this classification, which obliges our country, which has thus committed itself to the exceptional universal value of this property. UNESCO gives several directions to carry out a restoration project on a classified property: it invites in particular to build the restoration project on the basis of a reflection based on the available documents to preserve the integrity and authenticity of the monument, two concepts closely associated with the preservation of the exceptional universal value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u323	It's too long!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u324	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u325	This amendment is consistent with the wording adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u326	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u327	It takes up part of the drafting of the Senate, which would include the restoration work of the cathedral within the framework of the charter of Venice of 1964. In our view, Notre-Dame's restoration work must be strictly supervised and must respect all the rules in force. However, this bill is primarily derogating from ordinary law, in particular because of its article 9. We would like conservation and restoration work to be carried out within the framework of French law as well as that of international law on the protection and valuation of heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u328	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u329	I am replacing my colleague Marc Le Fur, the author of this amendment, who recalls France's commitments following its ratification of the World Heritage Convention on 26 June 1975. Notre Dame Cathedral, in its capacity as a masterpiece of Middle Ages architecture, contributed to the inclusion of the property "Paris, banks of the Seine" on the World Heritage List. The restoration works that will be conducted must therefore respect the authenticity and integrity of the monument to ensure the preservation of the exceptional universal value that presided over the inscription of this property.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u330	Mr Le Fur's amendment No. 138 is being defended. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u331	It aims to recall that the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris must respect the Charter of Venice, which will preserve the monument from any ambition of architectural gesture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u332	Amendment No 264 by Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot is being defended. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 230.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u333	The destruction of the forest, that is to say, of the historical structure of Notre-Dame, being a major historical and architectural loss, it is important that its replacement be made in the greatest transparency vis-à-vis the French. This also applies to the other materials used: this requirement is fundamental in order to make the French adhere to the reconstruction of what is much more than a historical monument or a place of worship. Since you are advocating transparency and exemplaryness, it is essential, I think, that the French are aware of what is happening with regard to the Notre-Dame construction site.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u334	What is the opinion of the committee on this series of amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u335	You have a lot to say to the Venice Charter, ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to read it again... Amendment No. 273, which takes over the drafting of the Senate, contains four elements. First of all, the text already provides that conservation and restoration works "preserve the historical, artistic and architectural interest of the monument". Secondly, the Venice Charter is mentioned: as I said earlier, France signed it and will apply it. The amendment then refers to the "last visual state", which we have already mentioned. Finally, it opens the possibility "to use materials different from those in place before the disaster": it is premature to imagine which materials will be used; This choice will be the responsibility of the architects in charge of the construction site. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u336	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u337	It should be remembered that Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris is above all a place of worship and that the works must preserve the cultural interest of the monument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u339	The assignment of the cathedral to the diocese of Paris and to worship was never called into question. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u341	Since the amendment is satisfactory, I am against it, or rather I am asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u342	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u343	At a time when the world's heritage is being destroyed massively, international treaties take on an even greater dimension than ever before. What image will France give of itself if it violates in conscience the texts prepared to protect the jewels of its heritage? My amendment aims to safeguard the authenticity of Notre-Dame, a classified building. Nara's document on authenticity guarantees, like the Venice Charter, respect for the authenticity of the monument. Exalting the authenticity of the building is part of the policy of preserving our cultural heritage. This text says it well: to distort the silhouette of Notre-Dame by an architectural gesture would violate the respect that we owe to the texts of common sense and would send a disastrous image of France abroad. If France is unable to comply with the international agreements it has signed, what credibility will it have tomorrow to intervene on issues such as the restoration of buildings destroyed by the Islamic State? Let us not depart from the international treaties that preserve the monuments that are the memory of our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u344	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u345	The wording of Article 2 satisfies the amendment: withdrawal or unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u346	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u347	Article 2 provides that the conservation and restoration work of Notre Dame Cathedral preserves the historical, artistic and architectural interest of the monument. However, one must not conceal a fundamental dimension of Notre-Dame de Paris, its raison d'être and its primary function: it is a cathedral, in which religious ceremonies have been celebrated for more than 800 years, including on June 15, 2019, the date of the first mass since the fire. The amendment adds to the historical, artistic and architectural dimensions of the monument its religious dimension: Our Lady being above all a cathedral, it is important not to conceal her religious character.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u348	I have before me two amendments, Nos 265 and 266, which can be presented together. Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u349	These amendments were tabled on the initiative of my colleague Thiériot. The bill does not fix the cannons according to which the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris will be undertaken. However, the "contemporary architectural gesture" envisaged by the President of the Republic, as well as the Prime Minister's announcement on the launch of an international architectural competition to "provide Notre-Dame with a new arrow adapted to the techniques and challenges of our time", give cause for concern about the adoption of contemporary projects that would distort Notre-Dame. It is therefore necessary, in order to satisfy the wish of 54% of the French to see a "restoration similar to the cathedral", to include in this law the principle of a restoration of the cathedral respecting the canons of Gothic and Neo-Gothic architecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u350	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u351	I have the impression of repeating myself: it is not for the legislator but for the heritage experts to propose projects for restoration. Article 2 also states that the works are intended to preserve the historical, artistic and architectural interest of the monument. The opinion is unfavourable on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u352	Amendment No 242 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u353	Amendments Nos 235 by Mr Julien Aubert and 253 by Mr Marc Le Fur, which may be subject to a joint debate, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u354	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u355	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u356	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u357	I haven't intervened so much so far. What I want is for this restoration to be a great moment of concord because 800 years is not nothing! I was able to realize how much, in the minds of the French – who have concerns in all senses – Notre-Dame has an image that takes them a little out of the monotony of times. Whether you believe in Heaven or don't believe in it, everyone wants to put it back up. It would be good if we could come to an agreement on this. This would be a sign of hope for all, to the extent of so many great moments in history, during which France was still so torn apart. It would be good if some kind of republican well-being, associated with something that strikes our minds, could help us. I also wish – this is the purpose of my amendment to Article 3 – to address these gentlemen who have a lot of money but do not always use it very well. The gentlemen who have money and invest it in companies, in works of art and in research, I like them, but those who only speculate, there's plenty of money, and I wouldn't want them to get too much money on the backs of the poor people! That is why I have tabled an amendment on this subject: that they pay, but for good, without advertising or advertising effects! We don't discuss a subject like this every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u358	Identical amendments No 17 by Mr Thibault Bazin, 64 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho, 137 by Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart, 143 by Mr Marc Le Fur, 199 by Mrs Constance Le Grip and 275 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u359	We addressed the issue at the beginning of the bill's consideration. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u360	Amendment No 262 by Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u361	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 18 and 144. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u362	It is intended to restore Senate writing. It is not necessary to provide that the collection and management of funds paid in connection with the subscription is the responsibility of the State. We therefore propose the deletion of the words "to the State or" in paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u363	Mr Le Fur's amendment No 144 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u364	Pending the establishment of a public institution responsible for the management of donations, it is necessary to retain the words "to the State or". The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u365	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u366	Many heritage professionals wonder about the public establishment designed to ensure the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame. How long will it last? What sources of funding will ensure the life course of this institution specifically designed for the building? Will the donations of the French pay the costs of this state institution? If that is the case, their destination will be diverted. The generous compatriots who participated in the subscription do not want to pay for the costs of an establishment, they want the fruit of their donation to be allocated to the renovation of a cathedral which is an integral part of the French identity. In addition, the establishment of such a facility would create a disastrous precedent. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the rehabilitation of the classified cathedrals of which it is the owner. Creating a particular institution dedicated to a single building makes the State derogate from one of its duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u367	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u368	We have already discussed the need to establish a public institution and will discuss it again during the discussion of Article 8. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u369	Amendment No 269 by Mr Le Fur is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u370	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 176.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u371	If everyone agrees that the materials used will not be identical to those which have disappeared, the restoration of this place of worship must nevertheless be carried out in the same way as the last known visual state before the sinister, in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Charter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u372	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u373	We have already discussed the subject: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u374	Mr Le Fur's amendment No 248 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u375	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 184.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u376	It aims to ensure respect for the destination of donations, which are intended to finance the restoration and conservation of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. It should be made clear that only the perimeter of the building is concerned, with the exception of buildings around it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u378	The bill, from its title, concerns "the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris". We will address the concept of scope in the review of section 8, which establishes the public institution. I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u379	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u380	Same request!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u381	Do you maintain your amendment, Mrs Descamps?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u382	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u383	I have before me four amendments, Nos 200, 109, 145 and 19, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u384	It is intended to establish precisely, in the text of the draft law, that the modalities for the return of donations and payments made are the subject of agreements with, for example, the Centre for National Monuments or the foundations recognized as being of public utility mentioned in the first paragraph. To describe the framework of these conventions would be more precise and more policy-oriented than simply mentioning the ability to sign them. The amendment also seeks to introduce the possibility of concluding agreements for natural or legal persons who have made donations and payments directly to the public treasury. Finally, the last paragraph provides for the possibility of spreading the payments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u385	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u386	Adopted by the Senate, it aims to ensure greater transparency in the manner in which donations are returned, by providing that they must be the subject of agreements between, on the one hand, the Centre for National Monuments or the foundations recognized as being of public utility mentioned in the first paragraph and, on the other hand, the public institution. It also provides, but optionally, that a donor, a natural or legal person, who has made a donation directly to the public treasury, may obtain formal guarantees from the State concerning the use of the donation. In this way, governments would provide evidence that they rely on the virtuous experience and practices of foundations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u387	Amendments Nos 145 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 19 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u388	They deal with a number of topics. We answered earlier on the question of 15 April. The provision that you are referring to in the Senate tends to delete the information from donors, which is an extremely important element for us to keep in this text. Furthermore, the possibility that natural or legal persons who have made donations or payments directly to the public treasury may conclude agreements is not excluded from the bill. This addition therefore seems unnecessary. Finally, with regard to the method of payment, the wording you are proposing, which is that of the Senate, does not specify the competition funds concerned and introduces provisions that are rather operational and fall within the regulatory field. That is why we have adopted its abolition in committee. I maintain my unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u389	I have before me three amendments, Nos 80, 179 and 81, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Mette to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u390	The purpose of the project is to ensure that the National Monuments Centre and publicly recognized foundations authorized to collect donations under the national subscription enter into agreements that enable them to ensure that donors' will is taken into account in the allocation of funds. The objective is to avoid any risk of revocation of donations on the grounds that their assignment would not be consistent with the donor's wishes. The foundations recognized as being of public utility cited in the article – the Fondation de France, the Fondation du patrimoine and the Fondation Notre-Dame – have each launched donation collections in order to participate in the reconstruction of the cathedral, according to an object or objects of their own. In addition, it is necessary, in view of the obligations of the foundations to the Court of Auditors, whose scrutiny is well provided for in Article 7 of the draft law, to insert the words "to ensure respect for the object of the donation", in order to legally guarantee the return of donations by the foundations, the latter having the responsibility to verify the adequacy of the payments made by them with regard to the original object of the donation made following their call for the generosity of the public. This wording makes it possible to comply with Articles L. 111-8, L. 111-9, L. 111-10, L. 111-12 and L. 143-2 of the Code of Financial Courts, since the Court of Auditors will verify the conformity of the expenditure incurred by these bodies with the objectives pursued by the public call for generosity. As for No 81, it is an amendment of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u391	Amendment No 179 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin is being defended. Amendment No 81 has just been defended by Mrs Sophie Mette. What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u392	Your amendments are intended to make the payment of donations conditional upon the signing of a convention that guarantees respect for the intention of donors. However, some donors did not express any intention to donate; They simply made a donation to Notre-Dame de Paris. As a result, this intention is well respected by article 2. In addition, foundations have, to date, studied all the gifts of individuals and verified their objects. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u393	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u394	It is also unfavorable, because the donations that enter into the national subscription will restore Notre-Dame de Paris. If, at the time of the donation, the author specifies that he makes it under very specific conditions, for it to be used for restoration, then the State – if the gift has been paid to the public treasury – or the foundations will be obliged to comply with that intention. However, in the absence of a specific donor's intention, the donation enters into the national subscription according to the terms of the text we are discussing. It is therefore not useful to go further than what is well mentioned in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u395	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u396	With respect to section 3, which deals with the return of the proceeds of donations, I would like to pay tribute to the substantive work done in this chamber by our colleagues, from all sides, who were particularly well explored, and I really regret the fact that the National Assembly removes most of the amendments that they proposed from the back of their hands. It is true that we have been discussing this for some time now, but I simply recall everything you have rejected: the change in the date, which should have gone from 15 to 16 April; the removal of the return of State donations to the designated public institution; the fact that foundations are no longer required to enter into agreements with the public institution in order to ensure that donors' will is taken into account and that the conventions are publicized so that they are informed; the fact that individual donors, businesses and communities that have contributed directly to the public treasury can no longer conclude such agreements directly, and that public institutions must provide an accurate estimate of the cost of construction projects. All of this has been swept away, as has the details of how the funds are to be returned. I admit I don't understand that way of working too much. As the legislature moves forward, I am increasingly bewildered by the sectarianism displayed by the majority, including on a text that was to bring together and contribute to the national unity generated by the emotion following the fire of Notre-Dame. Article 3 is one example, among others: joint work is always swept away, quite simply. When I came here for the first time, I did not imagine that parliamentary work could take place in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u397	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u398	We wish to wage a battle to preserve Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris from its possible occasional privatization by large groups. To do so, we wish to prevent any consideration for donations and payments in respect of this subscription. At the time of the committee's examination, we were objected to the fact that the consideration given to companies was highly supervised and could not be manifestly disproportionate to the donations and payments committed. It is not familiar with current practices in this area, and we have every reason to be seriously concerned. If we do not set up this guard, we are exposed to a multitude of unacceptable counterpart: plaques in the name of the great patrons, signs related to the project on the slate of the site or on advertising tarpaulins, privileged access to the monument, provision of space for receptions, privatization of the places, tailor-made heritage visits, etc. This project must not be an opportunity for large companies to buy an image or to advertise themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u399	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u400	We have already had this debate in committee: an unfavourable opinion. We shall return to the subject of advertising, which I know is of interest to us all, in Article 9, since it simply excludes it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u401	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u402	This amendment by the Socialist Group, which you have already refused at first reading, is intended to enable the State and the various bodies to refuse donations from natural or legal persons which might be linked to money laundering or tax evasion, and to give the State the means to ensure that these donations comply. You will probably tell me that the law already prohibits such practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u403	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u404	However, as we all know, these practices exist and remain, our demand is not met. It seems to us that the example of this construction site cannot suffer any irregularity which would contradict the very spirit of the builders of the cathedral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u405	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u406	We have already dealt with this subject at first reading. As you have just pointed out, the law already punishes these practices. I understand your interest in the subject, but my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u407	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u408	Article 4 concerns the participation of local authorities in national subscriptions: it allows them and their groups to make payments in respect of national subscriptions. The Senate had proposed that these payments have the same status as expenditures for investment projects in the renovation of historic monuments. An amendment by the rapporteur went back to that addition and deleted all the amendments of the Senate, again. The Observatoire du Patrimoine Religiouse lists 500 religious buildings at risk, 14 of which are in Paris, and more than 5000 dilapidated sites. If the state owns the 87 cathedrals, the communes are responsible for maintaining all the churches built before 1905, i.e. almost all the 42258 churches and parish chapels counted by the Conference of Bishops of France. If these buildings are classified, the department, the region and the state can pay a subsidy. If Article 4 goes in the right direction by allowing local authorities to make payments in respect of the national subscription, it is necessary to stop lying to the French and to make them believe that the communities, whatever their good will, have the means to contribute to the restoration of Notre-Dame. Without being able to maintain their buildings properly, town halls and dioceses no longer hesitate to sell: 5 to 10% of religious heritage could be sold, destroyed or abandoned by 2030. Let us encourage the French to continue to give for Our Lady, consult them to know what they expect of this restoration, encourage them to contribute to the restoration of our cathedrals, our churches, our abbeys or our monasteries, which have recently been degraded or whose conservation is endangered. National solidarity speaks volumes about our commitment to this common heritage and to our Christian roots. I would also like to point out a fact that happened as we were talking: I just read that a church in the Eure burned for the second time this week. There's some kind of fire and damage epidemic in our buildings. Not only is this heritage very difficult to maintain for communities, it is subject to multiple degradations, whether voluntary or not. I would like to point out that I have asked for the creation of a mission of information on these degradations of our cultural buildings – whatever they are, in fact, all religions. I look forward to the answer. We can no longer continue to allow our heritage to deteriorate, whether it is for lack of means of maintaining it or because it is damaged voluntarily. It would be time for us to restore it, but also to know who are the people who deliberately degrade it, and for what reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u409	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 83, which seeks to delete Rule 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u410	I tabled it again, after defending it in committee. From the point of view of principle, one may wonder whether a community official, mayor or president, decides to make a grant to Notre-Dame while the cathedral is not in its territory, because this may seem shocking. In fact, it has been clear that some communities have rushed by announcing donations with taxpayers' money, although this is not legally binding. My amendment is therefore intended to correct this authorisation of investment expenditure, which constitutes a legal anomaly. Donations can very well be made from the operating budget, for other reasons. By removing the possibility of using the VATF – the VAT-compensation fund – the Seant showed that it was not an investment expenditure eligible for VAT recovery or compensation. I repeat, if I were followed in my request to delete the article, we would give a clear sign. I am aware that this would not necessarily make life easier for certain communities, which I believe have been a little bit quick in their generosity. But it would remind us that we must take an interest in its territory. Whether the communes in Île-de-France – or Paris, of course – give, it does not shock me. But that a commune in the South of France, for example, gives a choice on the relevance of which one can wonder, all the more so, once again, because it is about taxpayers' money, not about the money of the elected ones. That is why I call for the deletion of Article 4, which also poses a problem of orthodoxy with regard to public accounting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u411	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u412	We debated the subject of this amendment at first reading and then in committee last week. The objective of Article 4 is to respond to requests made by certain local authorities, for which the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral is not of local public interest. The aim is therefore to provide a legal basis for donations and payments made within the framework of national subscriptions by local and regional authorities outside their geographical competence. It is because several communities have announced their intention to participate in the national subscription that the bill enshrines this opportunity – I insist on that word. So my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u413	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u414	A large number of local and regional authorities wanted to participate in the spirit of generosity in favour of the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. It seems legitimate to give them the opportunity to do so. It is up to them to explain to their deliberative assembly – city council or other – or to their administrators the reasons that led them to accompany the restoration of the cathedral. I do not think we should prevent them from participating in this subscription. In addition, as indicated above, an accounting instruction will be issued shortly to clarify that these donations will be recorded as capital expenditures. They will not be included in the calculation of the so-called national maximum operating expenditure target of 1.2 per cent per year under the Public Finance Programming Act. On the other hand, these payments will not be eligible for partial reimbursement by the Value Added Tax Compensation Fund, as this is a national subscription. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u415	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u416	I can hear your answer, minister. However, our assembly cannot condone breaches of public accounting, which is very well done and limits precisely the freedom to act in such a case. Come on again for this time, but let's not leave this possibility open for each donation. The accounting rules are well designed, and it would be desirable for the Assembly to contribute to their compliance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u417	Amendment No 12 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u418	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne has the floor to support Amendment No. 165.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u419	It aims to restore the wording adopted by our assembly at first reading: it implies the removal of the precision relating to the non-eligibility of payments made by local authorities in the context of the national subscription. I am aware of the requests of some of you to include these elements in the law. However, as well as the nature of the payments, these details will be included in the budget and accounting statement to which the Minister referred. I therefore do not think it would be useful to step up the scheme by means of such measures, which are more of a regulatory issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u420	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u421	It certainly seems to be in the regulatory field. However, consistent with the explanatory memorandum to section 4 of the bill, it seems useful to clarify that contributions from local authorities and their groupings will be considered as capital grants. This clarification is intended to remove any ambiguity and ensure the traceability of the funds allocated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u422	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u423	This amendment is in the regulatory field and I am expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u424	The committee has deleted Article 5. I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 90, 21, 24, 153 and 202, aimed at restoring it. Amendments Nos 21, 24, 153 and 202 are identical. Amendment No 90 is the subject of several sub-amendments, Nos. 288, 289, 290, 303 and 291. Mrs Marie-Ange Magne, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u425	It aims to restore the text voted by the National Assembly at first reading. The Senate has rewritten some parts of the system. It introduced a temporary and targeted reinforcement of the tax advantage granted in respect of donations, in accordance with Article 200 of the General Tax Code, which seems superfate and causes an unnecessary increase in the scheme. In addition, the changes in the grant eligibility period to the exceptional increase in the rate of the 75% tax reduction raise several difficulties, in particular as regards the end date of this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u426	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support sub-amendment 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u427	I care a lot about it. Amendment No 288 is the result of a suggestion by the Socialist Group. We are committed to making this subscription truly popular. So there is no reason to deprive half the French. So we need to adopt a tax credit logic rather than a tax reduction. It is enough to reduce the tax deduction by half so that the State has the means to support all policyholders. This is the only innovation that we would have brought to this law – which is also relatively useless, since the objective it pursues could have been achieved under constant law. The real innovation would have been in an extension of the scheme to a tax credit. This wonderful idea would have given rise to popular momentum and would have been less discriminatory for the French, who share the same desire to participate in the reconstruction of Notre-Dame de Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u428	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u429	Mrs Valérie Rabault's sub-amendment 289 is being defended. Subamendments Nos. 290 and 303 are identical. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor in support of sub-amendment 290.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u430	It aims to restore to the French the equality of tax treatment that they are legitimately entitled to demand for the reconstruction of Notre-Dame Cathedral. It is therefore a matter of re-establishing section 5 of the bill as it was adopted by the National Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u431	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 303.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u432	First of all, I will oppose Mrs Magne's amendment, which is aimed at re-establishing Article 5, which was deleted in the Committee on Finance, in full conscience and not out of malice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u433	Indeed, it was a will!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u434	The deletion of the article would have the effect of reducing the reduction from 75 % to 66 %, which corresponds to the general scheme. This 9-point difference would not be dramatic. As for my sub-amendment, it would mitigate the effect of this unnecessary article, if it were to be retained. I had fun doing a simple calculation: if Article 5 were restored, as proposed by the rapporteur, a person who would pay 1000 euros – the level of the ceiling of the so-called "Coluche" deduction – would lose 41.67 euros compared to the situation we are advocating. It does not seem abnormal to me to align the ceiling of exceptional donations in favour of Notre-Dame giving entitlement to deduction on the level already in force for the Restos du coeur or the Fondation Abbé Pierre. It would be a positive sign to apply equivalent tax treatment, on the one hand, to aids to persons who cannot afford to feed themselves or who encounter serious problems in their lives, and, on the other hand, to the legitimate rehabilitation of Notre-Dame.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u435	I call Mr Dominique Potier to support sub-amendment No. 291.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u436	Through its history and the literature that surrounds it, Notre-Dame carries a popular spirit, which must be found in the process of reconstruction undertaken by the Government. The purpose of this amendment is to avoid treating tax households with several members less well: in the interests of fairness, it is proposed that the limit for payments subject to a tax reduction be set on a tax-share basis. Our approach is always the same: popular, egalitarian, democrat.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u437	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u438	It is not intended to re-establish article 5 of the draft law in its drafting adopted not by the National Assembly, but by the Senate. In his wisdom, the latter provided for a tax deduction of 75 per cent, up to a limit of EUR 1000. This is an exceptional device, for an exceptional case: the restoration of a unique symbol in the eyes of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u439	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u440	This offers me the opportunity to deal with donations to our cultural buildings. The International Foundation of Pontifical Law Aid to the Church in Distress published its annual report for 2018. There are 23 donor countries in the EDA, among which France is by far the most generous. Last year, the foundation raised €8 million more in Hexagon than in Spain, the second largest donor. Despite this great generosity, the EDA has seen a drop in donations compared to previous years. In France, the foundation raised €22 million in 2018 compared to €26 million in 2017, a 15% decrease. According to the AED, this fall is partly due to the Government's latest tax reforms, notably the increase in the CSG, the widespread social contribution. To quote the EDA: "Our small donors, who make up the majority of our support, have been directly affected by the increase in the CSG; It has had a radical impact on the collection of donations. We can analyze it, because many of our contacts write directly to us. » At 90%, the resources collected in France by this foundation in 2018 were used in the Middle East for the reconstruction or renovation of more than 200 houses in Iraq and emergency aid in Syria. This area has been the scene of persecution of Christians for several years. As a result, the AED has released more than 40 million euros for Iraqi refugees since the summer of 2014, and more than 25 million euros for Syrian refugees since the beginning of the war in March 2011. After Africa, the Middle East is the area where the foundation invests the most. Since 2017 and the liberation – if I may say so – of Iraq, the media coverage is certainly not the same on the spot, but the inhabitants continue to suffer. A mechanism has been set up: media coverage is lower and donations are rarer. Therefore, at the time of reconstruction, the needs of these associations are extremely important. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I would therefore like to commend their work and regret that there is no provision in this text to facilitate donations. Even for Notre-Dame de Paris, the choice was made to retropaedalize by no longer providing for a tax deduction, or at least by limiting it, which I really find a pity. I am not going to go back to what I said earlier about the number of our buildings that have been left behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u441	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u442	It would be time to consider a mechanism that allows us to help them, so that they do not collapse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u443	Amendments Nos 153 by Mr Marc Le Fur and 202 by Mrs Constance Le Grip are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these amendments and sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u444	We have already had this debate. The opinion will be unfavourable on all the sub-amendments. I am also not in favour of re-establishing the text adopted by the Senate. I do not think it is appropriate to change the deduction ceiling. On the contrary, it is important to stick to the mechanism as announced. Finally, know that, so far, the average donation is 100 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u445	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u446	To respond to the generosity of our compatriots, we proposed to increase the rate of the tax reduction from 66 to 75 per cent, up to a ceiling of EUR 1000. The state wanted to show that it understood the exceptional emotion of our fellow citizens who responded to this tragedy with an equally exceptional boost of generosity. It has thus made a specific gesture, however reserved for donations of less than 1000 euros and made by private individuals, to the exclusion, therefore, of companies. With regard to the tax reduction scheme in favour of sponsorship, we should be careful not to confuse. If it's presented as a tax advantage, it's not really one. The donor pushes his tax towards the action he wishes to promote, which he completes by adding an additional sum. He thus pays an amount equivalent to, or even greater than, what he would have been had he not given. He makes a donation to the work of his choice by shifting to it part of the tax he should have paid, which means that he still pays a sum of money, which will be partly financed by the State. It is therefore not a tax gift to patrons or donors. The State simply accompanies the choice of a donor to give a little more than its tax in favour of cultural action, in this case the restoration of historical monuments. When presenting the system of patronage, be careful not to maintain any confusion in the minds of our compatriots: those who pay taxes do not enjoy some kind of tax advantage from which others would be deprived. Finally, we opted for a simple, clear, recognizable ceiling, announced for weeks to our compatriots. It would be inappropriate to penalize those who gave more than the amount you mentioned...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u447	That would make 41 euros of difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u448	... by no longer allowing them to benefit from the tax reduction up to 1000 euros of payment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u449	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u450	This bill has been announced, not without dishonestness. First of all, we will forgive him, but I remember very well the Prime Minister promising on television, in the fire – this is the case of saying it – of the emotion: "I want every euro given to go really to the reconstruction of Notre-Dame de Paris. For all those who advocate for other works, it is deeply unjust. We've all corrected this awkwardness: we don't want that. The second evil is to have granted a tax reduction and thus deprived more than half of the French of the possibility of being accompanied by the State to give.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u451	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u452	I didn't understand your explanation, minister. We all know what a tax reduction on a gift is, we understand. However, if I make a donation of 100 euros by being taxable, my tax will be lower, while if I am not taxable, I do not receive a tax credit. You just forgot that half the French don't pay taxes. We simply asked that an equal proportion be returned by the State, in order to restore the equality of all the French who participate. I repeat: if I do not pay tax, I will receive nothing in return for my gift; If I pay for it, my donation of 100 euros will actually cost me only 50 or 40 euros. To the injustice of income, you add an injustice in the recognition by the state of the effort made for a common work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u453	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u454	This really isn't the time. On the contrary, you should have universalized the ability to give so that the gifts paid for Notre-Dame de Paris do not devalue those dedicated to these cathedrals, which are the planet or the human person.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u455	He's right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u456	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u457	Minister, like everyone else, I heard your laius. However, this is an exemption in favour of a few, while only those who do not pay tax will pay the full amount of their donation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u458	It's irrefutable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u459	You'll have to tell us things from every angle, so it will be. You are proposing an exemption, which will, moreover, be taken over by the State, and therefore by all taxpayers. You cannot claim that the situation is the same depending on whether or not you pay taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u460	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u461	On the contrary, it differs completely since, in one case, we benefit from a tax reduction, in the other no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u462	This reasoning is completely false.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u463	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u464	I think there's a little confusion. Each Frenchman simply gives to the height of his means. The one who doesn't pay taxes may give 50 euros. The person who pays for it will be able to pay up to 100 euros, since because of the taxes he owes on the fruit of his work, he will be accompanied by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u465	What if the first one gives 100 euros too?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u466	We're only accompanied if we're rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u467	Once the tax benefit is deducted from the amount granted, what the donor really wants to pay remains. It is true that this tax benefit results in a public expenditure, but it is financed by tax revenues, which explains why it is reserved for taxable persons. I don't see any injustice in this device...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u468	Yes, he is deeply unjust!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u469	... since every Frenchman can give to the height of his means. Mr Mattei, we discussed it in committee: let us not confuse the perennial donations, renewed every year, in favour of charitable associations like those you mentioned, especially the Restos du coeur, which carry out fantastic work over time, with an exceptional gift in favor of a unique case, Notre-Dame, which is subject to a different regime, in particular this particular ceiling, which presents the merit of legibility, as explained by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u470	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u471	This discussion is so extraordinary that we do not regret to have stayed until this late hour to attend. We are told that the French give according to their means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u472	It's hard to do otherwise...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u473	The gift is rather traditional, Mrs. Motin; That is the reality. On the other hand, the tax advantage exists only for taxable citizens – it is the basic tax rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u474	It has always been so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u475	Those who are not would probably like to give more but they do not benefit from a tax advantage. In any event, the State has chosen to grant an extraordinary tax reduction of 75 per cent, different from the usual rate of 66 per cent. The delta is indeed an expenditure borne by the State. Stop making us believe, minister, that this is free and everything is fine: the expenditure will really weigh in the state budget, it will have to be borne. I would be curious to know the cost of this measure. Did you just assess him? Let's imagine that all donations amount to €5 million and come from taxable persons. I would be curious to know the answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u476	Without donations, it would be the state that would pay in full.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u477	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u478	The debate is strange, it is true, because our colleagues are pretending not to understand what is simple: if we want this national momentum to be meaningful and everyone to be able to participate in it, especially that half of the French who do not pay taxes, we must grant a tax credit. It's not very complicated to grasp. Moreover, we have devised a measure with a constant budget since we proposed lowering the ceiling to 531 euros, as for charitable associations. This would have been simple and the State budget would not have increased. Stop making people think that we don't want to do anything to promote donations! You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u479	It's the same for all associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u480	Stop calling from bench to bench! Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u481	Mr Minister, I have no problem with this text, apart from these two articles, which are not neutral. If we can no longer, as a Member of Parliament, even of the majority, deliver an opinion which is not in line with the one originally decided, we must stop making any remarks and go to bed quickly. The role of the parliamentarian is nevertheless to try to move the debate forward. For the sake of consistency, I have tabled this amendment, which I could call a withdrawal in the event of the re-establishment of Article 5. It is no more logical to impose a ceiling of 1000 euros than to retain that of the so-called "Coluche" donations. We are trying to move the debate forward. The argument of the loss that would be suffered by those who have already given does not hold. The one who gives the fact because he wants it and not to take advantage of the tax carrot. Moreover, some major donors have given up the tax advantage, which I found elegant. We could try to rebalance this. That is the point of the amendment. Far from being revolutionary, my proposal is fair and humane.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u482	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u483	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u484	I ask, out of curiosity, how an amendment can be tabled on an deleted article. I just want to understand...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u485	These amendments under joint discussion tend to re-establish the article, precisely. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u486	Mr Mattei, I would never have allowed myself to say that a Member like you, or any other Member, could not propose an amendment. You are well aware, however, that I have the right not to agree with your proposal. I didn't say anything more. I tried to justify my choice to retain a ceiling different from yours, even if I understand your position: it seemed simpler and clearer to set it at 1000 euros, as it had been announced from the start, so as not to take the risk of psychological disruption to those who have already given. I understand your logic; Mine's just different. Everyone can express themselves. I am in favour of Amendment No 90 by the rapporteur and against all the sub-amendments and other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u487	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u488	Article 5a provides for the submission of a report. The aim of this amendment is to make this report more comprehensive: it should include the material counterpart obtained by donors and the amount of the tax revenue resulting from the carrying out of the conservation and restoration work. This information is important and enhances transparency. We should all share these objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u489	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u490	I have moved in committee to re-establish the version of rule 5 bis adopted by the Senate for several reasons. First, the requested report would be prepared by 30 September 2020 and each year thereafter. However, this amendment does not seem appropriate to me as the main objective is to identify the donations and amounts associated with the exceptional increase in the rate of the tax reduction provided for in Article 5, which will end on 31 December 2019. Secondly, more problematic: Parliament's information on payments made by local and regional authorities – something that we had introduced at the initiative of our colleague Valérie Rabault, in a trans-party spirit – is being deleted, which is rather regrettable. I therefore think it would be preferable to stick to the text adopted by this House: an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u491	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 181.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u492	We wish to supplement the request for a report adopted by the Committee on Finance at first reading. This report could also detail the income deciles that will benefit most from the tax reduction, as it has just been restored in Article 5; This clarification would demonstrate the inherent injustice of not a tax credit, but only a tax reduction. Indeed, only taxpayers paying income tax will be able to benefit from it. Thus, more than half of the French population will be excluded from this scheme, yet supposed to encourage national cohesion and solidarity around the common objective of rebuilding Notre-Dame de Paris. In concrete terms, and at the risk of repeating myself, the article that has just been voted will allow an easy taxpayer to be reimbursed 750 euros by the tax authorities for a donation of 1000 euros in favour of financing the reconstruction of Notre-Dame. In addition, this difference will be compensated by the state, i.e. by all taxpayers, as noted on another bench. On the other hand, a taxpayer paid to the SMIC will have to finance 100 % of his gift of 1000 euros, without any financial contribution from the State coming to help him. The report must examine this ludicrous situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u493	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u494	We have already had this debate at first reading. You are presenting your amendment as an instrument to illustrate the fact that the tax reduction will mainly benefit the most affluent taxpayers. By its very operation, however, a reduction in income tax benefits only those taxpayers who owe it. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u495	I call Mrs Mette to support Amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u496	While it is necessary for Parliament to have comprehensive information on the national subscription, it should not ignore the rules guaranteeing our public and individual freedoms, which includes the protection of personal data provided for by the GDPR – the general regulation on data protection – and the tax secrecy of natural and legal persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u497	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u498	I do not think this clarification is necessary. The report will mention only the amount of donations made in connection with the subscription, in particular those which have given rise to the exceptional increase introduced in Article 5. Therefore, it will not contain any personal or tax data. In addition, the government already complies with these obligations when it submits reports to Parliament. The amendment therefore seems to me to be satisfactory: request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u499	Amendment No 65 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u500	Mr Charles de Courson's deletion amendment No 166 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u501	Mr Le Fur's Amendment No 146 and Mrs Marie-France Lorho's Amendments Nos 23 and 66 are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u502	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 110.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u503	We would like to amend paragraph 1. In addition to receiving the reports of the State and the public institution from the committee of the first President of the Court of Auditors and the chairpersons of the permanent committees of the Assembly and the Senate responsible for finance and culture, it seems essential to us that the finance committees of the two chambers be able to monitor the use of the funds collected in the context of the national subscription. On the use of large sums of money on a major heritage issue, Parliament must be able to exercise its control role.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u504	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u505	We want the restoration of Notre-Dame to take place in a spirit of national union. To this end, it is necessary to be included in the State Evaluation and Monitoring Committee of Parliamentarians representing the various political groups of the two Assemblies. It is essential that the control of the funds used – which may come from the donations of individuals – does not come essentially from the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u506	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u507	The planned composition of the Monitoring Committee, which includes the first President of the Court of Auditors, the Presidents of the Assembly and the Senate, the Chairpersons of the Committees on Cultural Affairs and Education and the Chairs of the Finance Committees of the two Assemblies, therefore already provides for the presence of opposition parliamentarians. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u508	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u509	There are even three opposition parliamentarians: in the Senate, the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Education and Communication and the Chair of the Finance Committee; In the House, the Chairman of the Finance Committee! My opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u510	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 244.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u511	Presented by Marc Le Fur and supported by Brigitte Kuster, this amendment aims to involve the city of Paris and the diocese of Paris in the management of the funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u512	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u513	Article 8 provides for the association of the city of Paris and the diocese of Paris with the public institution, but not with the monitoring committee, which has another function. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u514	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u515	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u516	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u517	As you have just pointed out, Madam rapporteur, Article 8 makes these two entities sit on the board of directors of the public institution set up by the new drafting of the Government, which has nevertheless, in this article, avoided the issue of the management of the funds. As an elected representative of Paris, and although not belonging to the municipal majority, I recall that this city is also involved in the financing of the reconstruction of Notre-Dame; it is concerned in more than one way by the action of that public institution, whose field of competence could be expanded following certain derogations. It is therefore desirable that both work in good intelligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u518	I have before me three amendments, Nos 208, 54 and 147, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 54 and 147 are identical. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 208.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u519	It tends to strengthen the transparency operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u520	What the hell is that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u521	We reiterate here the observations made by the Conseil d'État in its opinion of 23 April 2019: this objective of transparency "will be better ensured by imposing on the State or the public institution responsible for the restoration or conservation of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris an obligation to report publicly on the use of the funds collected". I hope that we will go further in this transparency exercise, which cannot be satisfied simply by an annual report. On the one hand, the future state or public institution will have to report every six months – this rhythm does not seem to me to be exaggerated – to the relevant parliamentary committees on the use of the funds raised. On the other hand, the State or public institution will be required to communicate the use and allocation of funds on a single and open Internet area in several languages. Many donors – small, medium and large – have sent us their donations from Europe and, more massively, from across the Atlantic. They could rightly demand that a dedicated and freely searchable website ensure transparency in the use of donations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u522	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u523	Allocation is not consumption: as Constance Le Grip pointed out, it will be necessary to have information on the consumption of donations by the public institution. For the sake of transparency and clarity to all those who have participated in this spirit of generosity, we want it to report as it goes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u524	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u525	I would like to go along the same lines: we want the public institution to report on how it has actually consumed the funds it has received, so as to verify, as the project progresses, whether this consumption corresponds to the original allocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u526	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u527	It does not appear necessary to recall the power of control of the Standing Committees of the Assembly and the Senate. In addition, at first reading, we had already planned the submission of public reports. On Amendments Nos 54 and 147, the committee delivered an unfavourable opinion. Personally, after discussing it with the minister, I would have given wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u528	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u529	This clarification regarding the consumption of funds goes without saying. I give a favourable opinion on these two identical amendments. On the other hand, I am against Amendment No 208.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u530	At two o'clock a quarter in the morning, finally an amendment adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u531	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 115.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u532	It seeks to secure the financing of the setting up of the Parvis de Notre-Dame, by supplementing paragraph 2 with the following sentence: "This report also sets out the forecast funds which are allocated to the financing of the layout of the parvis and the adjoining gardens in order to be able to temporarily welcome the public, the collections and to present the state of progress of the construction site. We are particularly committed to collections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u533	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u534	The aim of this amendment is to distinguish, on the one hand, the funds allocated to the restoration work of the cathedral itself and, on the other hand, those directed towards the financing of the development of the surroundings, in particular for the temporary reception of the public and the collections. I know it's a subject you care about. I would remind you that, as Article 2 makes clear, the purpose of the subscription is to finance the preservation and restoration of the cathedral. We will discuss the approaches to Article 8. I can therefore only ask you to withdraw the amendment, which will be satisfied in the final version of the text; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u535	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u536	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u537	Hold on to your amendment, Mrs. Victory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u538	No, I'm taking it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u539	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u540	What does the Government plan to do in the event of an influx of donations? Where will surplus donations be reallocated? Donors need to know for what purpose the fruits of their generosity are being used. Surpluses of payments must be used on projects to which donors subscribe. I had proposed, in an amendment, to make surplus donations available to the Heritage Foundation for a similar restoration project, such as a foundation project relating to a classified religious monument. It would be inappropriate for the excess donations to be used for the future maintenance of the cathedral, whereas it is up to the State-owner to assume responsibility for them under the Act of 9 December 1905.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u541	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u542	It is very premature to mention a surplus of donations when only 9% of pledged donations have been collected. Article 2 also states that the funds will be entirely and exclusively devoted to the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u543	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 126.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u544	Transparency has rightly become a citizen and popular demand. Today, especially in financial matters, it is a democratic imperative. Derogations from the ordinary law provided for in the following Articles will necessarily lead to exceptions in the field of public order and therefore to rules governing it. When we know the amount of political-financial business related to public procurement, the establishment of stronger control over the collection and use of public or private funds is fundamental, especially when they are used to finance the restoration of a symbolic monument belonging to the entire nation. This restoration must live up to our contemporary democratic challenges. We therefore propose that a regularly updated website allow all citizens to have access to this information. Of course, the anonymity of the data would be ensured, in accordance with the recommendations of the CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u545	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u546	We have already planned a report that responds to your request: the opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u547	I should like to inform you that, on identical amendments Nos 2, 29, 75, 163 and 167, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u548	The preservation of heritage must be at the heart of our concerns in the drafting of the bill. Senators amended section 8 in a way that satisfied me, because it provided essential guarantees in this area, all the more necessary as this section empowers the Government to make arrangements by order. The enabling law must be precise in order to ensure that the preservation of the heritage is not flouted. It must also be precise with regard to the composition of the scientific council to inform the public institution responsible for the restoration of Notre-Dame. It must also specify that it is to the architect of the historic monuments in charge of the cathedral that the authority on the control of the works of conservation and restoration must return. Finally, it must state that the public establishment will be dissolved once its purpose has disappeared. These common sense clarifications were deleted by the Commission; they should be reinstated to ensure the quality of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u549	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 2, 29, 75, 163 and 167, to delete Article 8. Amendments Nos 2 by Mrs Brigitte Kuster and 29 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho are defended. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u550	We consider it inappropriate to set up an ad hoc public institution, even if it will be under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture, as we requested from the first reading. There are already two public administrative establishments responsible for the renovation of historical monuments: the National Monuments Centre and the Heritage Operator and cultural real estate projects. We do not understand why you are looking to overly specificize the management of the reconstruction of Notre-Dame de Paris, by divesting existing bodies, quite able to carry out this work – they were created, among other things, to ensure this type of mission. The logic of derogation cannot guarantee the best protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u551	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 163.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u552	Why create a new administration to fulfill a mission, when existing administrations could already do so? This is clearly the question that arises in the reading of Article 8. The State already has several establishments whose missions correspond perfectly to those which this article wants to attribute to a new public establishment: I am thinking in particular of the National Monuments Centre, which is already dealing with some of our cathedrals and which has managed to carry out conservation and restoration operations of major monuments such as the Hotel de la Marine or the Château de Villers-Cotetêts. Everyone knows that the creation of a new establishment involves management, cabinet, communication: in short, a new establishment involves new expenditure. It therefore seems completely unnecessary operationally and financially costly to create an ad hoc establishment to rebuild Notre-Dame. That is why we propose the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u553	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u554	This amendment was tabled on the initiative of my colleague Charles de Courson. As has been said, the reconstruction of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris does not require the creation of a specific ad hoc public institution of an administrative nature of the State under the supervision of the Minister for Culture. This public institution will create a profusion of unnecessary administrative procedures and processes at present, especially since, as mentioned at first reading, this creation will result in a waste of time. That is why we wish this article to be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u555	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u556	He's unfavorable. Indeed, as we said at first reading, we support the creation of a public institution for several reasons. Moreover, the Government's amendment No. 284 will clarify the details.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u557	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u558	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u559	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u560	The group's many questions and concerns The Republicans on this article have not been dissipated, which forces me to intervene. We continue to believe that a public institution, even of an administrative nature, has no reason to be, as I mentioned in the general discussion, on behalf of my political group. Indeed, there are already ad hoc structures. Minister, it would be interesting to hear from you on this subject. It should be noted that the Historic Monuments Centre has been entrusted, since 2007, with a new mission of conservation and restoration of the monuments it manages, and that it has 1500 public servants. As for the Heritage Operator and the real estate projects of culture, it is a public institution for the control of public works specializing in the restoration and valorisation of national monuments: it therefore works in the first place for your ministry. It is therefore surprising to see the creation of this new structure, which is supposed to coordinate the work. We can also expect that some of these staff will be required to join the new facility. In our view, the ex nihilo creation of a new structure lacks logic, since structures already exist. Moreover, it is surreal to expect that the age of the president of the institution will be waived in addition: this hand sewn, in order to arrange certain cases, does not seem to us to meet the requirements of the general interest nor to favour the economies of the State and efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u561	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u562	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 2, 29, 75, 163 and 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u563	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 50 Number of votes cast 48 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 13 Against 35
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u564	On Amendment No 284, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. This amendment is the subject of many sub-amendments. The Minister has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u565	At first reading, I had indicated that we were thinking about the best way to ensure the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. After working with the teams of the Ministry of Culture, interacting and taking into account the remarks of the National Assembly and the Senate, we made the decision to create a public institution. The public institutions you mentioned, the OPPIC and the CMN, are already responsible for a large number of ongoing restorations. Moreover, as we have said enough, this is an exceptional project. It therefore seems logical to create a specific public institution. As stated in this amendment, which is intended to draft the article, it will be a public administrative institution – we had discussed the various options – which will be under the supervision of the Minister responsible for culture, as the text makes very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u566	And under the high patronage of the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u567	Not only will he be able to restore Notre-Dame, but he will also be able to carry out works to develop the immediate environment, namely mainly the parvis, the squares surrounding the cathedral and the promenade of the south flank, as part of a possible convention with the city of Paris, which will retain control of the decision. He will also be able to take care of the development of the work and of the crafts and heritage involved in the project, and to develop and implement cultural, educational and mediation programmes, which we have often mentioned here. This establishment must be included in the law because it falls within a new category of establishment, since it is intended that representatives of the city of Paris and the affective cult will sit on its board of directors. These governance requests, which have been made on several occasions, have been met. In addition, by an amendment adopted by the House, we are setting up a scientific council, because we have also been asked to use experts in heritage restoration. This public institution will be able to recruit employees under private law. Before the establishment of the public institution, a prefigurator will anticipate its implementation, whose name you know: General Georgelin. A decree will detail the rules of its operation, including the date of its actual installation, on the understanding that, at the end of its mission, the establishment may be dissolved, also by decree. The relaxations proposed in Article 9 and the clarifications on the arrangements for the organization of the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris correspond, I believe, to what we had planned to do at the first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u568	We come to the sub-amendments to Amendment No 284. Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 293.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u569	It aims to distinguish between pre-restaurant and sustainable conservation missions. The task of the public institution should be limited in time. We are against its creation, but if it is created, we must foresee its date of extinction. It is therefore appropriate to remove the mission of sustainable conservation from the restored monument. There is a similar confusion between the diocese of Paris and the City of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u570	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support Amendment No. 320.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u571	I will defend this amendment, even if the measure contained therein would have had a greater place in Article 9. The Government decided to table, at the last minute, an amendment to rewrite article 8. We regret the method, but we look forward to the Government finally hearing some comments made by Parliament over the past several weeks. The Socialist and related groups, like many other groups, have raised questions about the exorbitant derogations introduced by this text, and have raised concerns about the risks they pose to the usual restoration procedures. We are surprised that environmental regulations are only mentioned in the impact assessment to determine how the Government can derogate from them. While ecological issues are at the heart of the concerns of the French, it is essential that the future restoration site take into account the environmental balance. That is why the Socialist and Related Group wants compliance with environmental standards to be enshrined in the law and that the future public institution scrupulously respects these standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u572	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support sub-amendment 286.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u573	At the outset, I would like to point out that I support the Government's amendment to rewrite article 8 to clarify the scope and functions of the public establishment, which will allow the best possible management of this restoration site. I had tabled a number of amendments aimed at ensuring that the public establishment of the direct neighbourhood took account of the traders and residents of the island of La Cité. They are already affected by the project and will, of course, be affected within the next five years. The following subparagraph should therefore be inserted: "It shall ensure that the situation of traders and residents is taken into account. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u574	Subamendment No 296 by Mrs Frédérique Dumas is being defended. Subamendments Nos. 301 and 305 are identical. I call Mrs Mette to support sub-amendment No. 301.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u575	It aims to associate the foundations recognized as being of public utility with the public institution, in the same way as the city of Paris and the affective cult. The Fondation de France, the Fondation du patrimoine and the Fondation Notre-Dame must be able to sit in the public institution, which will, in concrete terms, allow them to participate in the monitoring of the funds and their use, and to represent the very large donor community. This recognition of their unique role in the financing of a major public project is necessary, in particular with regard to the obligations relating to compliance with the intention of donors or the purpose of the donations collected by those foundations, and with regard to the audits of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u576	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 305.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u577	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] In my turn, I stress the importance of the great foundations of public utility, which have worked, from 15 April to the evening, to collect and accompany the great movement of national, European and international generosity. They must be associated with the public institution, in the same way as the city of Paris and the diocese of Paris. Their presence in the institution would be a recognition of their considerable role, and would be relevant to the obligations related to respect for the intention of donors, which can be relied on for generosity but which, at the time of our discussion, can be circumspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u578	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 292.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u579	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Its purpose is to clarify that the representation of the affective cult on the board of directors of the public institution will be in accordance with article 13 of the Act of 9 December 1905 concerning the separation of churches and the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u580	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support sub-amendment No. 311.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u581	It aims to restore the National Monuments Centre's presence in the governance of the public institution, as foreseen by the Senate. This is necessary for the restoration of a monument such as the cathedral of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u582	Subamendments Nos. 308 and 321 are identical. Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support sub-amendment No 308.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u583	At a time when the French strongly reject nepotism and argue the need for a more exemplary state, this bill plans to circumvent the rules of the civil service for the needs of a particular person. By providing that the heads of the institution are not subject to the age limit rules applicable to the public service, it is intended to ensure that General Jean-Louis Georgelin will be able to lead and receive treatment for this purpose. Without prejudging the quality of the personality of that general, this reinforces our view that this bill is a piece of legislation that multiplies exceptions to law and ethics, which we believe is contrary to the general interest. Because a law cannot have the effect of insuring the particular interests of a single person, we oppose the possibility that this public institution may be run by persons who have reached the age limit in the public service of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u584	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support sub-amendment No. 321.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u585	It is identical to the previous one. The Government's amendment provides for a derogation from the age limit rules applicable to the civil service to designate the future management of the public institution in charge of reconstruction. We understand very well the meaning of this provision: it might seem anecdotal, but it is a new derogation, and we are totally opposed to it. With regard to Mrs Mette's sub-amendment No 301, many of us believe that the foundations recognized as being of public utility have the confidence of the donors. It would be important to give them a place in the governance of the future public institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u586	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support sub-amendment No. 312.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u587	It is intended to clarify the composition of the Scientific Council, which is not provided for in the governmental amendment tabled after the review in committee. Its composition should be detailed, in accordance with the wording adopted in the Senate. In addition, this amendment aims to extend the role of the Scientific Council by providing for its reasoned agreement, which would avoid limiting it to an advisory role. These two particularly important elements should be incorporated into the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u588	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 294.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u589	The creation of the Scientific Council is a very good idea – we had tabled several amendments to that effect. However, his missions are not clear, as it is not specified that he is providing advice. It is important to specify, a minimum, that the scientific council formulates public opinions, like the National Council of Programmes, whose role is exclusively advisory and which makes public opinions, which does not prevent the Minister of National Education from exercising his regulatory power and taking decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u590	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support sub-amendment No. 319.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u591	I repeat, the role of the Scientific Council must not only be advisory: it must give reasoned opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u592	You have the floor to support sub-amendment No. 313, Mr Bazin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u593	Given the nature of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, it is essential to place the chief architect of historical monuments at the heart of this work. He is the person likely to ensure the mastery of the conservation and restoration work. This would provide a guarantee of seriousness and competence for this extraordinary work. The following subparagraph should therefore be inserted: "The work of the conservation and restoration work of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris is carried out under the authority of the chief architect of the historical monuments in charge of it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u594	Subamendment No 295 by Mrs Frédérique Dumas is being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the amendment and the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u595	I am in favour of Amendment No 284 by the Government. I am against Amendment No 293, because there is no ambiguity as to the nature of the conservation operations referred to in Article 8: it is not about the long-term conservation of Notre-Dame, but about the conservation of heritage and the conservation of heritage. As for Mrs Victory's sub-amendment No 320, it falls more under Article 9, and we will have the opportunity to consider a sub-amendment by Mrs Racon-Bouzon along the same lines: a request for withdrawal or an unfavourable opinion. Mr Rupin's sub-amendment No 286 on traders and residents was accepted by the committee meeting under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Dumas' sub-amendment No. 296 received an unfavourable opinion: the diocese of Paris, the assignee of the cathedral, and the town hall of Paris will both be associated with the governance of the public institution. Identical sub-amendments No 301 by Mrs Mette and 305 by Mrs Le Grip relate to the association of foundations. The latter will not be associated with the governance of the public institution, as they are not intended to carry out the conservation and restoration work of the cathedral. On the other hand, they will obtain all the necessary information under the conventions they will sign with the State in order to ensure the proper use of donations. The opinion is unfavourable. My sub-amendment No 292 received a favourable opinion from the committee. Mr Bazin's sub-amendment No 311 on the NMC received an unfavourable opinion. Identical sub-amendments Nos. 308 and 321, concerning the age limit, received an unfavourable opinion. Article 7 of the Act of 13 September 1984 provides that the law or statutes of a public institution may derogate from the age limits set for State officials. Mr Bazin's sub-amendment No 312 concerns the Scientific Council and its opinions. Indeed, the commission has come back to the wording proposed by the Senate because it changed the logic of the scientific council, which is not a decision-making body. As regards the sub-amendment No 294 by Mrs Dumas, concerning the consultations of the Scientific Council giving rise to public opinions, we have already referred to this subject in committee. The opinion is unfavourable. Subamendment No 319 by Mr Bazin relates to the composition of the Scientific Council. We prefer that this remain referred to an order-in-council: unfavorable opinion. Mr Bazin's sub-amendment No. 313 is satisfied: the chief architect of historical monuments is in fact associated with the conservation and restoration work of Notre Dame Cathedral – it is the law that wants it. I'm asking for his withdrawal. Finally, sub-amendment No 295 by Mrs Dumas proposes the dissolution of the public establishment as from the completion of the work. However, we wish to retain the current wording, which provides that the date and manner of dissolution of the public establishment shall be fixed by decree. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u596	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u597	What is the Government's opinion on the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u598	I will not repeat the exercise carried out by the rapporteur, who was exceptional because it is difficult not to get lost in all these sub-amendments. I obviously support the amendment that I have tabled. I also give a favourable opinion on two sub-amendments: point 292 by Mrs Brugnera,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u599	No joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u600	It's the one-to-one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u601	... which is a useful addition to the reference to the law of 2 January 2007 with regard to the public practice of cults; Mr Rupin's No 286 to take account of the situation of residents and traders, a subject which we had already mentioned at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u602	Does this amendment really fall within the legislative sphere? The law is talkative!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u603	For the rest, I fully agree with everything that the rapporteur has said. I would simply point out to Mr Bazin that the association of the ACMH – the chief architect of historical monuments – is of a regulatory nature, since it is provided for in Article R. 621-27 of the Heritage Code. It is because sub-amendment No 313 is satisfied that I am against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u604	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u605	I will withdraw my sub-amendment No 313. I would like to go back to the rapporteur's sub-amendment No 292, which refers to the 1905 Act, in particular to its Article 13. If the references to the Acts of 1905 and 1907 are of course relevant, it is necessary to be very vigilant because article 13 (2) provides that the enjoyment of buildings used for the exercise of worship by a religious association may cease "if, apart from cases of force majeure, the worship ceases to be celebrated for more than six consecutive months". I imagine that the fire of Notre-Dame is a case of force majeure...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u606	But it's better to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u607	Don't be afraid, Mr. Bazin!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u608	There's still a subject! The enjoyment of Notre-Dame by the diocese of Paris should not be a problem! I think everyone agrees, but the devil sometimes hides in the details.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u609	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u610	No, my dear colleague, this is not a joke. We all agree that the fire of Notre-Dame is a case of force majeure and that, if worship cannot be celebrated for more than six months, it will not be a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u611	I put to the vote Amendment No 284, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u612	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 49 Number of votes cast 49 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 35 Against 14
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u613	Mr Le Fur's amendment No. 157, aimed at restoring Article 8a, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u614	Amendments Nos 177 and 178 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u615	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u616	Article 9, which has been the subject of much discussion, empowers the Government to make by ordinance, within one year of the publication of the law, any provision aimed at facilitating the restoration of the cathedral and falling within the scope of the law. This cathedral, the work of builders, must not be trapped in the stakes of our time. In centuries, while everyone has forgotten our debates, Notre-Dame de Paris will still reign in the heart of our country: it will always fascinate those who visit it by raising those who pray. Such derogations will not fail to cast doubts on the example of the Notre-Dame yard, which thousands of French and millions of individuals will follow very closely – I will return to it later. Our Lady of Paris does not belong to us, but we are the first to have burned her. Our only duty is to restore it, with the patience required by an absolute masterpiece, to transmit it as we have received it. I invite the Government and our Assembly to show a little more humility. We have said it, but I think it is good to say it again since we have not been heard: the state cannot afford to break the laws, even when it comes to restoring one of the jewels of our civilization. These rules you're trying to circumvent exist for a good reason. Tell me if I am wrong: do they not make it possible to secure the smooth running of the yards and their execution time, while offering guarantees in terms of transparency and acceptability? Article 9 cannot be maintained; We call for its abolition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u617	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u618	Article 9 empowers the Government to make ordinances in order to derogate from the rules on urban planning, the environment, the preservation of heritage, public sovereignty, roads and transport. However, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council – I refer to Decision No. 2016-745 DC – and the Senate's position on the orders provided for in Article 38 of the Constitution, the legislator must sufficiently specify the purposes of the measures that may be taken by order. However, the Government was not in a position to explain what rule would slow down the restoration of Notre Dame Cathedral and why it should be derogated from. In addition, the status of the listed historic monument is already derogating as it allows exceptions to the urban planning code and various accessibility rules as well as to many other codes in force. Finally, discussions in the Joint Joint Committee showed that Article 9 was the main point of disagreement between the National Assembly and the Senate. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] For all these reasons, it should be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u619	On the identical amendments Nos 3, 25, 48, 58, 76, 85, 118, 128, 164, 207, 215 and 229, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. On Amendment No 285, I also have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I therefore have before me twelve identical amendments, Nos 3, 25, 48, 58, 76, 85, 118, 128, 164, 207, 215 and 229, to delete Article 9. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u620	The Republicans Group, on whose behalf I am presenting this amendment, remains firmly opposed to Article 9, which provides for the Government's authority to make orders in order to derogate from or adapt the rules applicable to urban planning, the environment, construction and the preservation of heritage, as well as public affairs, roads and transport. It's still a lot! This article, which is the main reason for our opposition to this text, is also that of the failure of the Joint Joint Committee and of the concord and national union which we might find on the text. Indeed, the statements made by the various members of the Republican group have shown our wish that the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris take place as soon as possible. However, as you yourself say, Minister, since the beginning of our discussion, we must not confuse speed with haste. Why, then, should we insist on provisions that are not only incomprehensible to the French and French, but which still endanger the whole policy of restoring the thousands of historical monuments in our country, as my colleagues have already pointed out? In addition, the Republican Group is concerned about the constitutionality of the application for authorization. Indeed, you must clearly indicate the purpose of the measures that the Government wishes to take and their scope of action. The only purpose of the reconstruction of Notre-Dame does not seem precise enough. Apart from the Ordinance on Preventive Archaeology, for which the Government had provided precise information, all the others were extremely vague. The Republican Group therefore wishes to know precisely the objectives of all the ordinances. Finally, there is no need to clear the rules of urban planning, in particular the rules for the preservation of national monuments. This restoration and conservation work must be carried out in accordance with the rules of preservation of historical monuments and under the supervision of the architects of the buildings of France. There can be no question of giving the Government a white-seing for the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. While the State is legally owned, it is primarily a depositary, on behalf of all French and French. That is why this amendment proposes to abolish the proposed authorisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u621	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u622	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u623	Article 9 provides for the Government to be given a white-seing for one year by means of an authorization to legislate by ordinances. I regret that this article plunges us into the greatest amount of precipitation and allows the Government to free itself from all the rules on urban planning. To substitute urgency for patience to respond to electoral and economic deadlines could lead us to bleak the construction site and not restore properly and sustainably one of the treasures of French heritage. It is up to us to restore Notre-Dame de Paris, not to appropriate its appearance, the construction site, the works and the restoration. The President of the Republic takes the risk of ignoring the recommendations made by hundreds of experts, the opinions of specialists in preventive archaeology, the rules of planning and preservation of heritage and the procedures of public order. It is up to the experts to restore the cathedral and to indicate the cost and duration of this restoration, not to a president of the Republic who would like to be a builder. We are not alone in worrying about the disproportionate will of the President of the Republic to act alone and against everyone's opinion: more than 1,000 conservatives, experts, architects and professors from France and abroad have warned him too, which is rare enough to be stressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u624	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u625	Such exceptions may distort the cathedral or prevent possible risks. Above all, we must secure, consolidate and protect it. In seeking to act by ordinances, the State does not set an example and seems to be prepared to dispense with the rules to which we have, however, largely contributed. This signal would then allow mayors and our fellow citizens all the freedom to exempt themselves from the restoration rules to which they are subject today, which would be a totally contradictory signal, if not absurd, since our country contributed to the elaboration of the Venice Charter, the Malta Convention and the Nara document, as well as the precise criteria for the protection of the world heritage of humanity of UNESCO.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u626	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u627	This process has an obvious democratic deficit and constitutes a political recovery of the restoration of a world heritage, European and French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u628	Amendment No 48 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho is being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u629	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I want to defend it because we still have the right to defend identical amendments, which will no longer be possible in a few months: as much, ladies and gentlemen, at two hours thirty-five in the morning, to try to catch your attention and perhaps even wake you up! [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] In order to ensure the quality of the site, Mrs Motin, it is necessary to take the necessary time. The restoration of a masterpiece of the magnitude of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris requires respect for time and rules. That's why I'm asking you to delete section 9, which would allow the executive to do anything with Notre-Dame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u630	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u631	You plan to derogate from the rules of urban planning, environmental protection, heritage protection and preventive archaeology. However, these derogations are not indispensable for the reconstruction of Notre-Dame, and can even put it in danger. In the past, very large-scale construction projects have been carried out without being free of the rules, which are protections, especially of the heritage, by the importance they give to the role of architects of the buildings of France and the curators of the heritage. Preventive archaeology, whose place was reinforced by the law of 7 July 2016 on freedom of creation, architecture and heritage, is not a constraint: it is an indispensable element for the knowledge of our history. In addition, ignoring the urban planning code, the environmental code, the construction and housing code, the public order code, the general code of ownership of public persons, the road traffic code and the transport code represent a real danger, setting a precedent for future renovation and reconstruction operations. In short, the rush that characterizes this bill poses a danger to the renovation of the cathedral, as well as to our entire heritage, already weakened by the lack of public funding. That is why we call for the deletion of Article 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u632	Amendment No 85 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine is being defended. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u633	He is very unanimous in saying that we disagree with Article 9. At first reading, the Socialist and Related Group reiterated the concerns expressed by thousands of researchers about the danger of such a provision, aimed at allowing the Government to derogate from all the rules applicable to urban planning, the environment and the preservation of heritage, as I explained earlier. When the text was examined at first reading in the Senate, the clause was deleted because of these concerns. Unfortunately, you reintroduced him into committee. The majority must hear the unanimous message of the professionals: such a provision is dangerous. You have heard this in part, because two of the derogations which were originally provided for in particular in the field of public order have been removed. Like most of our colleagues, we are calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u634	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 128.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u635	We too wish to delete article 9, which would allow the Government to derogate from all constraints in order to allow, as soon as possible, the rehabilitation of Notre-Dame de Paris. We cannot adhere to a failure to respect the law, in particular all the virtuous norms of a financial, democratic and environmental nature governing the construction or restoration of buildings, especially since Notre-Dame, by the technical and human prowess of which it proceeds and by the exceptional richness of its architecture and ornaments, symbolizes a victory of our ancients over obscurantism. At the time, Notre-Dame was the embodiment of a new time that began. It is essential that its reconstruction be carried out in a spirit that respects the great issues that we face today, which are not very different from those of those days. Social, environmental, ethical and democratic issues must be at the heart of the concerns of those who will have the mission to rebuild it. Its construction took 107 years. Isn't it presumptuous to want to rebuild it in five years, for the sole purpose of printing its own footprint on this multi-sacular building? We need not eagerly, but to take the time to mature a project that creates continuity between the motivations of old and those of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u636	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u637	Article 9 provides for the possibility for the Government to legislate by ordinance, which would allow it to derogate from many existing codes. The main justification for this procedure is to complete the restoration within five years in order to respond to the wishes of the President of the Republic, whereas, in the opinion of the specialists, no time limit should be fixed. If these codes exist, it is to protect our heritage with the usual procedures that frame the restoration of historic monuments. It seems aberrant to give up these rules for one of the most emblematic of our historical monuments. Our amendment therefore seeks to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u638	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u639	This amendment is also intended to delete Article 9. Many of the very good reasons put forward by the Republicans to ask for this abolition have already been brilliantly exposed, notably by my colleagues Brigitte Kuster and Emmanuelle Anthoine. I, for my part, will simply go back to the notion of exemplaryness which, in the field of policy for the restoration of heritage, is a duty of necessity for the State. Article 9, which is intended to introduce derogations, seems to me to be of a nature, I repeat, to create an unfortunate precedent, which is likely to seriously undermine this example of the State. How, in fact, can we then guarantee that all the rules of protection of the heritage are respected by all the other owners of historic monuments if the State itself, which enacts these rules and is responsible for their application, is free of them for one of the most emblematic sites in France, if not even the world? How can we understand that there can be double standards for months and years? The notion of exemplaryness therefore seems to me to have to be clearly at the heart of the State's mission. On the other hand, as other colleagues have said, the fact that the current rules are so restrictive that they can represent obstacles or obstacles in this great historic project is tantamount to questioning the relevance, excellence and quality, though unanimously recognised, of the French rules. All this is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u640	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u641	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 215.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u642	Our group has serious doubts about the use of derogations, whether in terms of urban planning, the environment or the preservation of heritage, or in terms of public affairs, roads or transport. The need to restore and the need for efficiency should not lead to precipitation. On the contrary, the visibility of the site seems important to us. Imposing such derogations, originally provided for by ordinances, can serve as a dangerous precedent for future renovations of our heritage. It would be difficult to understand that what has been decided for a Parisian cathedral is not so when another cathedral burns, as unfortunately has already happened and as unfortunately will happen again. Article 9 seems all the less necessary since derogations are already possible under constant law. Why, then, do you want to put them in the bill at all costs? While we welcome the majority's decision to abolish derogations in the field of public procurement and construction, this does not seem to us to be enough. The Government's rewriting of the entire article is not sufficient either. Derogations are still allowed, particularly in the area of urban planning. Our group believes that this restoration and conservation work must be carried out in accordance with the rules of preservation of historical monuments, under the supervision of the architects of the buildings of France, whose profession it is. If we are in favour of accompaniment to the restoration of the cathedral, and if we wish this restoration to be effective, we do not have to impose time limits, which are likely to be difficult to keep, let alone to clear the rules in force. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u643	Amendment No 229 by Mr Maxime Minot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on this series of deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u644	We have already discussed article 9 at length at first reading, and I will be even more brief as an amendment by the Government proposes a new wording. Why is this article allowing the Government to legislate by ordinance in order to derogate from a number of rules? The site is large, non-standard, and is also located on an island that is under stress and difficult to access. And, I repeat, we do not know in what condition the cathedral is in or what works will be necessary and with what materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u645	That is why this bill, which has been drafted in an emergency, is of no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u646	Article 9 gives the Government the possibility of derogation, but perhaps it will not use any, as no one knows today. If some of you think that the Government will make all possible derogations, we believe that we must trust those who will be responsible for this exceptional project – as Mrs Le Grip said – a highly observed project, a project that will be carried out very well. I repeat, therefore, that we must trust the professionals who will lead him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u647	So why the rush?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u648	We'll be the one to ask for an account!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u649	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore give an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u650	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u651	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u652	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u653	I would like to remind the rapporteur that there were many exceptional projects – whether we were considering the reconstruction of the roof of the Cathedral of Nantes, after its fire, or the reconstruction of the Parliament of Brittany – and that everything was done in accordance with the rules, without any need for derogations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u654	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 3, 25, 48, 58, 76, 85, 118, 128, 164, 207, 215 and 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u655	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 46 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 14 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u656	I have before me two amendments, Nos 285 and 129, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 285 is the subject of many sub-amendments. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u657	Mrs Boyer, I would remind you that if we wanted to legislate quickly, it was in particular because we had to take account of the retroactivity of certain tax systems. We then wondered whether it was necessary to bring together in the same text all the organizational provisions, the relaxation of the provisions of several codes, for the most exemplary possible restoration of the cathedral, or whether it was necessary to wait until the end of our reflections and our work to engrave directly into the marble the necessary provisions. We concluded, given the time that a shuttle between the Assembly and the Senate takes, that it was more effective to put everything in the same text. At first reading, I told you that I would return as soon as possible to you, in a very transparent way, either directly, for second reading, to set certain measures in the law at the outset, or at the time of the ratification of the ordinances, so that you have all the elements we need for an exemplary restoration. We have just considered article 8, on which the Government has fulfilled its commitments. This is also the case for Article 9 since we propose, through this amendment, to freeze in the law the relaxations that we had imagined. And you can see that we were right: it was not because we were planning from the outset to allow the Government to legislate by ordinances in a very broad way on derogations and easing, that we were going to use all these possibilities. The evidence is with the heritage. It is not a question of derogating from the fundamental principles of heritage protection, as I said and I repeat: only the strictly necessary derogations will be retained. The aim here is to entrust the INRAP with carrying out archaeological excavations, to derogate from the consultation of the Regional Commission on Heritage and Architecture, in case of appeal against the opinion of the architect of the buildings of France – you see that it is very limited – and to frame, what some of you, moreover, wanted, the possibilities of displaying on the tarpaulins of the scaffoldings, on the palisades and in the right-of-way of the site. That's it! So you see that we took the time to think about it, not to make mistakes. At the same time, however, we have the will to confine the scheme to the simple needs of this exceptional project, as the rapporteur so rightly said. In the field of public policy, derogations are intended to authorise, for the purpose of valuing the site, the occupation or use of the public domain for the purpose of carrying out an economic activity without prior selection procedure or the pursuit of an economic activity free of charge. The text then provides for an authorization to derogate by ordinances in the field of road, urban planning and the environment, because we have not finished our work. But the state of mind is the same: you can see that the order will only provide for very limited relaxations. We still have to define what the restoration project of Notre-Dame de Paris will be – I heard Mrs Kuster talking about it just now. The diagnosis of the state of health of the cathedral has not yet been established. That is why we have not been able to complete the drafting of the specific easing provisions that are necessary. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, among the areas covered by the authorization, there will be procedures for the authorisation of quarries under the Environmental Code. These procedures are very framed, a diagram is provided. We will certainly need a large number of specific stones, and we will probably have to depart from the pattern of quarries laid down by law. We must be able to give ourselves the necessary room for manoeuvre, once we have clearly identified all our needs for the restoration of the cathedral. Here too, what we show you at second reading is entirely in line with what we told you at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u658	So we did well to mobilize.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u659	We come to the sub-amendments to Amendment No 285. Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor in support of sub-amendment 298.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u660	Article 9 provides for derogations for operations related to the conservation and restoration of the cathedral and its basement, but also for its immediate environment. This latter provision does not seem appropriate to us – it is not up to the public institution to take care of the conservation and restoration of the surroundings of the cathedral – and should at least be clarified, because the notion of "immediate environment" is far too vague and does not allow us to know the exact scope of action of the public institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u661	You have the floor to support sub-amendment No 299, Mrs Dumas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u662	The article provides that the prefect of the region shall not consult the regional commission on heritage and architecture if the prefectural authority or the city of Paris disagrees with the architect of the buildings of France and decides to appeal to the prefect. We propose to abolish this derogation, which once again seeks to free itself from the rules guaranteeing the protection, conservation and presentation of cultural heritage, in order to comply with a five-year period imposed by the President of the Republic. The conciliation and exemplary nature of this project must be rigorous. I would like to point out that the opinion of the Regional Committee on Heritage and Architecture is consultative. I do not understand how the text can specifically request derogation from the advisory opinion of a regional committee that meets as soon as it is asked to do so. To classify, for example, the Garden City of the Red Butt as a remarkable heritage site, you have demanded a positive opinion from the Regional Heritage Commission. In this case, the committee is requested to meet; The Commission is asked not to give its opinion, although it is purely advisory and does not pose any delay problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u663	I call Mr Michel Larive to support sub-amendment No. 317.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u664	With this sub-amendment, we want to ensure that the palisades used for the work of the Notre-Dame yard are not advertised for commercial use. The church of Saint-Augustin, the Place de la Concorde, the column of the Bastille, the Conciergerie, the Palais de Justice: all served as advertising material for major brands, often of luxury. We are no longer satisfied with the kind promises full of good intentions, and it would seem to us that it is really inappropriate for Notre-Dame's construction site to also become a standard of capitalism, allowing brands to come and parasitize the heart of the city of Paris. (Murmurs on the benches of the LaREM group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u665	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 325.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u666	The Government's amendment authorizes publicity on the building site of the cathedral, even if the local advertising regulations of the city of Paris prohibit it. We really refuse to see Notre-Dame's cathedral promote, even on the palisades, the latest fashionable smartphone or I don't know what. If the government amendment specifies that the cathedral will not be covered with commercial advertising – still happy! –, why allow it for the palisades of the yard, that is to say, as close to the building? We call on the Government to delete paragraph 7 from that possibility, which we really do not understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u667	I call Mrs Mette to support sub-amendment No. 302.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u668	The rules for the preservation of the heritage have been enacted in order to promote the conduct of the works in the best conditions. Therefore, there is no need to dispense with rules other than those envisaged, which the legislator himself has decided and which guarantee the exemplary conduct of the construction site desired by each of us. Secondly, the precautionary principle implies that the rules applicable to diagnosis and restoration must be respected so that this project is conducted in accordance with the rules of art. Finally, this sub-amendment aims to ensure the fulfilment of some of our international commitments and will help to reassure all professionals involved in heritage preservation, who are very concerned about the derogations proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u669	I call Mr Michel Larive to support sub-amendment No. 309.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u670	By rewriting article 9, which was intended to bring down all the amendments relating to that article, the Government showed some contempt for national representation, seeking to avoid debate. The newly drafted Article 9 III proposes a series of derogations "from the rules on roads, the environment and urban planning, in particular with regard to the compatibility of planning documents, the granting of the necessary permits, and the applicable procedures and time limits". While all of these derogations seem to us to be completely inappropriate, since the reconstruction of Notre-Dame seems to us to be exemplary, two of them are of even greater concern to us: environmental derogations and those relating to public participation. While individuals are asked to invest through a large subscription, we cannot rule out the provisions that allow everyone to become aware of and take part in the orientations of the project. More than that, we cannot forsake compliance with environmental standards, precisely at a time when environmental issues must be at the heart of our motivations. We therefore hope that these two derogations, which we consider to be more worrying than the others, will not be included in the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u671	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor in support of sub-amendment 297.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u672	Despite its rewriting, this article still authorizes by ordinances the arrangements for carrying out the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris in only five years, as the President of the Republic himself imposed. Our group has largely expressed its doubts at first reading about the use of derogations. If we welcome the majority's decision to abolish derogations in the areas of public procurement and construction, this is insufficient. Derogations are still permitted, in particular in the areas of urban planning, roads, the environment and the granting of works and construction permits. We therefore propose that these derogations be abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u673	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support sub-amendment No 322.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u674	As we pointed out in the general discussion, we consider that the rewriting of Article 9 is in the right direction. At first reading, this article provided for the granting of various derogations without specifying the scope. The new version corrects it. However, it maintains the establishment of a number of exemptions through ordinances. In order to strengthen the framework within which they are based, we propose that they be subject to compliance with all of France's European and international commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u675	I call Mrs Michèle Victory to support sub-amendment No. 324.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u676	This article is the most problematic because it makes it possible to introduce too wide derogations. Furthermore, it suggests that the law is a binding framework, even though it is a tool to ensure the proper conduct of the work, i.e. in compliance with the applicable rules. That such a construction site requires specific devices, why not? But this amendment sacrifices quality to speed of execution. By this sub-amendment, the Socialist Group wishes to make it clear that the restoration work must be carried out in safety conditions not "satisfactory" but "optimal". This seems obvious, but it is preferable to include it in the text. The speed expected by the Government will force several trades to intervene simultaneously on the construction site. As we know, such conditions increase the risk of accidents. It is therefore essential to recall that the security situation must be optimal rather than satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u677	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support sub-amendment No. 315.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u678	He cares very much about me. Our Lady of Paris is a symbol of our national heritage, to which many, in France and abroad, have shown their attachment. But Notre-Dame de Paris is above all a place of Catholic worship, from the beginning to the present day, and everything must be done so that it can return to it as soon as possible. This is the wish of the parishioners, the faithful and the clergy, and it must be followed up. Christians were wounded for not being mentioned in the presidential speech on 16 April.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u679	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u680	In order to redress this contempt, we ask that space be reserved for worship, as quickly as possible, even during the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u681	Subamendments Nos. 310 and 323 are identical. I call Mr Michel Larive to support sub-amendment No. 310.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u682	This is a back-up amendment to delete the second paragraph of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u683	Subamendment No 323 by Mrs Michèle Victory is being defended. Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor to support Amendment No. 300 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u684	Its purpose is to ensure that the ordinances protect all the interests mentioned in the environmental code and respect France's European and international commitments. Indeed, it seems unthinkable to us to avoid the international conventions that we have ratified. The exceptional nature of the site, due to its size and its historic and historic importance, justifies the possibility of derogations, without reducing in any way the need to comply with the environmental code. It will thus be impossible, during restoration work, to question the environmental authorisation procedure and to derogate from the rules on classified installations. The site will be subject to prefectural authorization and will have to meet the standards of neighbourhood, health, safety, public safety and nature protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u685	I call Mr Michel Larive to support sub-amendment No. 316.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u686	It aims to impose a high degree of social requirement on the public establishment in the execution of the work site. At the time of its construction, Notre-Dame embodied a new time that was opening. It is essential that its reconstruction be carried out in a spirit that is attentive to the current concerns, and which are not very different from those of the time. A large number of men and women participated in the construction of the building. Some died and many of them were poorly paid. The times have changed: the human progress achieved in 850 years must ensure that workers are properly paid and covered by the most favourable social systems possible. The secondment system is a social aberration, a shame for Europe. It organises legal social dumping. It is similar to real relocations at home. It allows an employer to send his employees to work in another EU country without fully respecting the social law of that host country. Thus, social contributions, both wage and employer, are paid in the country of origin. All this is legal, organised by a 1996 European Directive. We have extremely rich know-how in France and Europe that we need to support more, especially in the craft sector, without a few, in order to reduce the cost of work, freeing themselves from certain social contributions, thus organising widespread competition between workers. This applies particularly to the reconstruction and restoration of a monument as emblematic and symbolic as Notre-Dame de Paris, whose history has been recalled. That is why we wish to include in the text that will not be used by posted workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u687	You have the floor to support sub-amendment No. 318, Mr Larive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u688	It aims to impose a high degree of environmental requirement on the public establishment in the construction of the site. Our Lady of Paris symbolizes, by the technical and human prowess to which its construction gave rise, as well as by the exceptional richness of its architecture and ornaments, a victory of our elders over obscurantism. It is this same will that must inspire us today. A contract of moral, technical, symbolic, historical and human virtue allowed the building of Notre-Dame de Paris. At the time of its restoration, it must be respected. We therefore wish to ensure that those who will have the great responsibility for this project give a central place to the great concerns of our time. In particular, the aim is to ensure that the materials and methods used will have a positive or no effect on the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u689	Since his summary statement is identical, can we consider that your amendment No 129 is being defended, Mr Larive?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u690	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u691	What is the opinion of the committee on the two amendments under joint discussion and the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u692	I will reply sub-amendment by sub-amendment, as I did on Article 8. With regard to the sub-amendments that propose the deletion of one or more derogations in the Government's amendment, I shall express an unfavourable opinion. As regards sub-amendment No 298, the concept of the immediate environment appears in several provisions, notably in the Urban Planning Code and the Environmental Code. In addition, the summary statement of the amendment clearly indicates what this concept covers: the parvis, the squares surrounding the cathedral and the promenade on the south side of the island of la Cité. It seems to me appropriate to consider the restoration work of the building in its environment, so keep the wording of the amendment. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. With regard to sub-amendment No. 299, the objective of the fourth subparagraph is to simplify procedures in order to facilitate the work, bearing in mind that many guarantees are provided in this text, at the initiative of the National Assembly or the Government, such as the regular information and consultation of the National Commission on Architecture and Heritage or the establishment of a scientific council and a public report. I am therefore against the deletion of the paragraph. I do not understand sub-amendments Nos 317 and 325: they are satisfied because the amendment provides for the prohibition of any advertising on site palisades. Mrs Mette's sub-amendment No. 302 is also satisfied because the rules on the preservation of heritage can no longer be the subject of derogations. I have an unfavorable opinion on sub-amendments Nos 309 and 297. Mrs Descamps' sub-amendment No 322 seems to me to be satisfied by Mrs Racon-Bouzon's corrected sub-amendment No 300, which recalls the need to respect France's European and international commitments. We agree that this project must be exemplary. I ask for the sub-amendment to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable. We share the intention of Mrs Victory's sub-amendment No. 324. However, the concept of optimal conditions, which is not legally defined, poses a difficulty of application. Instead, I propose that you adopt Amendment No 300 as corrected, the wording of which seems to be more satisfactory. Accordingly, I request the withdrawal; Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable. On sub-amendment No. 315, I would remind you, Mr Bazin, that a mass was celebrated in the cathedral recently on 15 June. The restoration of a space for the celebration of worship is an important objective which the managers of the site will have to discuss with the diocese of Paris. A relocation is under way. It is clear that this objective can only be achieved if the conditions for ensuring the safety of all are met. The opinion is unfavourable. I have an unfavorable opinion on sub-amendments Nos 310 and 323 and Nos 316 and 318 and a favourable opinion on No 300 as corrected. Finally, I am in favour of the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u693	What is the Government's opinion on the sub-amendments and on Amendment No. 129?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u694	I am in favour of Mrs Racon-Bouzon's corrected sub-amendment No 300. Sub-amendment No 322 is, in a way, satisfied with the previous one, which covers the whole subject: wisdom or support. On all the other sub-amendments, my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u695	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u696	An unknown one is hovering on the restoration site of Notre-Dame: the competition of architects for the repair of the arrow evoked by the President of the Republic, of which we do not know the calendar. Of course, this subject is not included in the text, but it is likely to give a completely different meaning to everything we are discussing. I wanted to take date for the various derogations, according to the explanations you gave us; Indeed, as you know, the worst as well as the best can result from such an architect's competition, and we wish to find the last vision we have had of the cathedral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u697	There's a specification!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u698	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 300, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u699	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 34 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u700	I put to the vote Amendment No 285, subamended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u701	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 45 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 32 Against 13
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u702	Well done, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u703	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u704	Amendment No 8 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u705	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 27 and 28. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u706	This amendment, of which the first signatory is Mrs Trastour-Isnart, proposes that the bill be entitled "for the preservation and restoration, in the last known visual state before the sinister, of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and establishing a national subscription for this purpose". The aim is to insist on the obligation of restitution in the last known visual state before the claim, which should or should have been introduced in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u707	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u708	I also defend the idea that the title bears "restoration in the last known visual state before the sinister," in keeping with all the work we have done on this text. Our Lady is the symbol of the cultural unity that the French have expressed. I would remind you that the majority of the French want an identical restoration. If the discussion on the text could be so thorough, leading us up to three and a half hours in the morning, it is thanks to the pressure exerted by the opposition and the experts. In this way, the text could be amended, in particular article 9, in which the Government and the majority were partially correct. I regret, however, that all the work done by the Senate on clause 8 and the other articles was swept away in the House, because the text was actually enriched. I have discussed this with my colleagues, in particular Constance Le Grip: it is really a pity that this project, which would have called for national unity, will be put to the vote with strong pressure and above all without dialogue or hand stretched to the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u709	Amendment No 246 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u710	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u711	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u712	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 32 Against 7
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u713	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u714	I'll only say one word because it's late. Thank you, Madam Chair, for agreeing to hold this extended session. I also thank the chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, the rapporteur and the draftsman for her opinion, who have done a remarkable job in their committees, and all of you, who have remained as numerous, very late in the night. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have taken account of Parliament's remarks. We will continue to work to transmit to you the ordinances to ratify as soon as possible and gather all the necessary elements to achieve a restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris that is at the height of our common wish, that is, exemplary, in order to send a very strong signal to our compatriots, who have had an exceptional impulse of generosity. We can say that we worked well together tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-02-E1002.u715	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Bill to combat hate on the Internet. The meeting is adjourned.
