ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u1	The next item is the debate on the mobility policy bill (No. 1831, 1974, 1937, 1938, 1942). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply to this discussion the procedure of scheduled legislative time, on the basis of a period allocated to the fifty-hour groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u2	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u3	In France, mobility is broken, and the French are the first victims. This breakdown hinders their most basic needs as their most ambitious projects. It undermines the unity of our country. This breakdown has a thousand faces, those that each of you meets in his constituency: that of young people refusing an apprenticeship or a job, for lack of means to pass the driver's license; that of our elders who cannot go to the doctor or to the market, for lack of solutions to go there; These women and men had to get up at five o'clock in the morning to hope to be on time at work, in Bordeaux, Marseille, Toulouse or Île-de-France. This breakdown is not the result of public inaction – no one can reasonably say that nothing has been done about transport in the last 30 years – but a failure to adapt our public policies to the real needs of our citizens. We have multiplied the TGV, a technological pride envied and exported from our country, at the cost of a slow and sloppy deterioration of the other railways, but also of the roads and the river network, thus depriving many territories of the minimum subsistence. We have strengthened our metropolises, which now have all the assets against their European or global competitors, but at the cost of capturing jobs and wealth, pushing many of our fellow citizens further away from urban centres. Finally, we have encouraged an unprecedented development in the mobility of goods and people, but at the cost of an unsustainable environmental footprint, making transport the leading emitter of greenhouse gases and one of the main sources of air pollution. The questions that arise are fundamental: are we able to make our mobility policy a tool for spatial planning? Are we able to make it a tool for social cohesion? Are we able to make it a response to the climate emergency? The Government's response is yes. Not only are we able to do this, but it is a duty and an opportunity. It is a duty to respond to the feeling of abandonment, for a long time, which has been expressed forcefully in recent months; a duty to meet the expectations clearly set out in the great national debate in favour of concrete, effective solutions, as close as possible to the ground; Finally, a duty to respond to the climate emergency, which no one can ignore. It is a duty but also a great opportunity to take advantage of the revolution of new mobilitys: carpooling, car sharing, multimodal information services, self-service offers, autonomous vehicles; The sector is brimming with innovation, which offers a tremendous opportunity to strengthen and create new French mobility champions. In short, we want to put France's start-ups at the service of France's territories. To succeed in this bet, I have proposed a simple method: starting from the basic needs of our fellow citizens to train, go to work, find a job, go to health care. At the National Mobility Conference, we made a clear and shared diagnosis with all stakeholders. Because what would be a law that would not meet the needs? At each stage of the construction of the text, we have worked closely with those who will have to implement it. What would be the value of answers that no one would take? The text that is proposed to you is already largely yours. It has been reinforced by senators, who have confirmed the broad principles of it, in a spirit of responsibility, and have strengthened its operational character, particularly with regard to the exercise of mobility competence by communities. This text was then enriched by the work of your Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning. I am thinking in particular of the strong ambition, which we share, for the ecological and solidarity transition. At this moment, I would like to thank the Members from all the benches of the House who participated in this collective construction. In particular, I would like to thank your rapporteurs, who have been fully involved, for their time and energy in preparing this text. So, what is the mobility law? This is primarily an act of confidence. Trust in communities, first of all, that play an irreplaceable role at the heart of the Republican pact, being the best able to meet the concrete needs of our fellow citizens. We don't do tailor-made since Paris: it is in the territories that we build the right answers. Simplifying the acquisition of mobility skills by inter-communities promotes the deployment of simpler, more flexible, more cost-effective and more responsive solutions across the country. Strengthening the region's role as a leader in mobility ensures consistency of offers and services as well as full coverage of the territory, in order to avoid too many white areas of mobility. By establishing places and tools for dialogue, the Committee of Partners and the operational mobility contracts, the conditions are created for the actors not only to talk to each other but to work together to provide the appropriate responses. The juxtaposition of partial solutions has never made an effective solution. So far, we have resisted the temptation of Jacobine being too prescriptive, so as not to hinder the ability to innovate and adapt. Let us trust our communities and all those in the territories to improve the mobility of our citizens. This trust is not a sign of disengagement but of a transformation of the role of the State. The aim is to provide more technical and financial support, to make possible, to provide tools, to support and to open up areas of experimentation. This is the whole meaning of the approach of France Mobilitys, which accompanies the territories in the deployment of innovative mobility solutions. That's trust for me. In the same spirit, I propose a new legislative framework to encourage the development of mobility offers and services. These new solutions are an opportunity: our responsibility is to put them at the service of as many people as possible, especially our fellow citizens for whom the single car is still the only solution. That is why we support the opening of data in order to encourage the emergence of applications, information and services accessible to everyone in one click for the entire journey, throughout the territory. That is why we are creating the framework for the deployment of autonomous shuttles from next year: they will provide a very useful response in the rural world, like the sixteen coordinated experiments supported by the State, which are all demonstrations of this. That is why we are finally allowing the deployment of new self-service offers, while giving communities the tools they need to ensure that they do not develop at the expense of other users of public space. We hope that this act of confidence will also be addressed to employers. They play a key role in improving home-to-work travel, all too often synonymous with galley and brakes. They must therefore be fully involved in mobility. By putting mobility at the heart of social dialogue, the majority trusts the social partners to find, in conjunction with the organising authorities, the best solutions, as close as possible to the needs, to reduce the cost of journeys and to make the sites more accessible, including those without a driving licence or a vehicle. By setting up the sustainable mobility package, your majority allows employers to pay up to 400 euros to their employees going to work by carpooling or cycling. This simple and effective tool will soon, I am convinced, enter the daily life of the French. The state will set an example with all its agents as of 2020, to the tune of 200 euros. For simplicity, this accompaniment could take the form of a mobility title, as there are restaurant tickets; We'll have to discuss it. Putting an end to the double penalty – no public transport, therefore no transport aid – is social justice: you can be proud of it. Yes, the mobility law is a piece of social and territorial justice. Physical mobility allows access to training, employment, health, culture and others. It depends on everyone's ability to emancipate themselves, to build themselves, and on our nation to become a body. To allow the most vulnerable people, because of their social situation or disability, to benefit from personalized support for their mobility is a measure of social justice. Making driving licences cheaper and faster to obtain, without making any concessions on the quality of driver training, is a measure of social justice. Everyone on these benches knows that the driver's licence is a barrier to the emancipation of young people, whether they are going on the way to learning, getting a first job or getting into education. The permit must return to its vocation of inclusion and not contribute to exclusion. To provide very concrete answers to our citizens with disabilities, such as the possibility for an accompanying person to benefit from preferential or even free fares in public transport, is a measure of social justice. Social justice also applies to workers in the transport sector. It requires the establishment of a suitable social framework for employees in transport by coach or bus, whose companies are opening up to competition. The aim is both to ensure continuity of service and to maintain high-level social guarantees in the transfer of employment contracts. This text meets this objective for urban and long distance transport in Île-de-France and in the rest of the country, after extensive consultation with the social partners. This same concern for social justice leads us to propose the establishment of a framework to regulate the relations between the platforms and the self-employed they involve. It is based on both obligations and strong incentives. The imperative of justice also applies between our territories. The infrastructure policy of which we inherit has been an undeniable success, but it has become a symbol of indisputable fractures. The programming we propose is intended to repair the links that must unite our territories. Repairing ties between our territories means investing 13.4 billion euros in this quinquennium, 4 billion euros more than in the previous quinquennium: this is considerable. We assume this because our territories need investment. Repairing the links between our territories means giving priority to the maintenance of existing road, rail and river networks. It is less spectacular than opening up new infrastructures, but, as everyone knows, this is what our fellow citizens expect of us for the safety and quality of their daily journeys. To repair the links between our territories is to implement the plan for the opening up of the roads of the rural territories and the medium towns, these indispensable routes which, contract of plan after contract of plan, have been postponed. Repairing the links between our territories means giving our metropolises real RERs, as there are in Ile-de-France: 2.6 billion euros will be spent there in ten years. To repair the links between our territories is finally to invest in the public transport and transport infrastructure of tomorrow. Programming means financing. This trajectory will be funded. Like any programming law, its funding will be included in the finance law, an appropriate framework for dealing with resources. For 2019, we are at the meeting, despite the particularly difficult context you know: the budget of AFITF – the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – is up by 10%, to 2.5 billion euros. In this bill, we have already implemented several important provisions to secure its funding. I am thinking of the allocation of a floor share of ICTPE – internal consumption tax on energy products – in line with the commitments made by the State in 2014. Beyond that, it does not seem impossible to aim at maintaining the amount allocated in 2019 for the years to come. You have also introduced in committee the allocation of the surplus of the so-called "Chirac" tax to AFITF. For the first time, air transport will contribute to the development of cleaner modes of transport. At a time when France intends to send a strong message at European level for the taxation of air transport, this contribution is an important symbol of our voluntarism. The debate on the contribution of the most polluting activities and modes to the financing of our infrastructure is a good debate, a legitimate debate, which we will have in this House. We need to have it, and I am ready to do so, so that it can shed light on the decisions that will have to be transcribed into the law of finance. Our objective is clear: to provide us with a policy to move towards cleaner modes, both for travellers and for goods. This is what we do by promoting a large river project with the regionalisation of the Seine-Nord Europe Canal society, expected by the communities. This is what we do through our investment choices. Here is only one figure, of which you can be proud: during the quinquennium, three quarters of our investments will go to the railway; for 1 euro spent on our roads, we will invest 3 in our trains; This is also the reorientation of our investment policy. As such, the mobility law continues the movement that we started here a year ago with the new railway pact. Already we have the ambition to give our fellow citizens a public transport service that works better. Already we place the needs of the users at the center, making the transport of daily, the development of the offer and the quality of service, the priorities. We already have positive results: in 2019, the regularity of trains is the best of five years; the economic model of the TGV is adjusted even as ticket prices are falling. These priorities, you find them in the mobility law. We act with consistency and determination. As with the railway law, we want quick results. So, with this bill, this is the second piece of legislation that reshapes our transportation policy. In this respect, we are honouring the commitment that was made during the railway reform, by dealing here with the issue of small lines. We do so in the spirit of trust that drives this text, by allowing the regions to take over the management of certain lines, wherever they wish, whenever they wish. We do this because rail transport is the backbone of clean mobility. Indeed – this will be my last point – the mobility law is a response to the ecological emergency. As you know, transport is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases, one of the main sources of air pollution. They can also generate significant noise pollution. By placing mobility at the heart of the bill, we are firmly placing it in the ecological and solidarity transition in which we are all engaged. To accompany the ecological and solidarity transition is to set ambitious and realistic objectives: the decarbonisation of land transport in 2050 and the end of the sales of vehicles using fossil fuels in 2040, which you have registered in committee, in accordance with the climate plan; I welcome the inclusion of the fight against climate change and air or noise pollution in the objectives of the programming, which you also voted in committee. These objectives are set out in very operational action plans, whose principles and normative provisions are laid down in the draft law. I am thinking, for example, of the renewal of the fleets of vehicles. You have specified the path needed to make our cleaner air and CO emissions as quickly as possible, in a sustainable manner. You have adopted the same approach to reduce the cost of deploying recharging and refuelling infrastructure. Because what is the value of objectives if they are not realistic and if we do not give ourselves the means to achieve them? Air pollution is killing and, as we know, transport has its share of responsibility. To accompany the ecological and solidarity transition is to encourage the deployment of low-emission zones. We are engaged in this process with twenty-three communities, and at this moment I want to acknowledge the spirit of responsibility of their elected officials. Developing low-emission zones is no less than allowing the 17 million inhabitants concerned to live in a more breathable environment. To allow, as we do, the renewal of personal vehicles thanks to the conversion bonus or professional vehicles thanks to the over-amortization, is to give each one adapted tools, so that no one is left behind in this necessary transition and expected by the French. To accompany the ecological and solidarity transition is finally to promote the soft modes. I am naturally thinking of the bicycle, to which many of us here are attached. Very concretely, the bike plan, which aims to triple the use of bicycles, finds its declination in the text: 350 million euros are included in the infrastructure programming to eliminate the discontinuities of cycle routes. All the normative levers are also activated: marking of bicycles, road safety, deployment of secure parking in car parks and railway stations, transport of bicycles, planning of routes, training of bicycles. I have no doubt that our debates in public will allow us to go further on all the provisions related to clean mobility; It's a major issue. Mobility for all in all territories is not a slogan. This text is the translation of a political choice expected by our fellow citizens and carried by the President of the Republic. It is an act of confidence in our territories, in our businesses and in the social partners. It is the firm commitment of a State that invests, makes possible and simplifies a State that respects the word given. It is the translation of a non-negotiable environmental ambition, of a responsible France that carries a coherent project to respond to the climate emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Our debates will be rich, passionate, perhaps even rough, but let us not lose sight of one thing: behind every mobility solution, there is a transformed life, new opportunities, an economic, social and cultural opening that is emerging for each of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u4	The Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u5	Finally, we are here to discuss the long-awaited mobility bill, which will enable us to meet the pressing expectations of our fellow citizens for too long. Mobility is one of the most crucial issues for the cohesion of our society: it is a condition for access to work, public services, culture and leisure. It is a decisive element of our daily life: to shop, to take his children to school, to go to the doctor, to see his family simply. That is why it is natural, legitimate, that those for whom the slightest displacement rhymes with complexity, that those who are daily in difficulty to move, express a deep discouragement or even a sense of abandonment. The expectations of our fellow citizens are as great as they are concrete; Our answers must be equally so. First of all, I would like to commend the method chosen by the Government. The National Mobility Assemblies were an exemplary exercise. They provided a comprehensive and, above all, shared picture of the expectations of all parties involved. One conclusion was that we must finally work for everyday mobility and put an end to unfulfilled promises or large projects disconnected from the needs of the field. This is the purpose of this bill, which, almost forty years after the adoption of the Inland Transportation Policy Act, will profoundly renew the situation. The aim is to provide solutions for everyone to move around, with four priority issues: investing more in infrastructure; offer all and everywhere alternatives to the individual car; build on innovations and develop new mobility solutions; successful ecological transition in transport. In order to move around, everyone must have an accessible and at the same time more environmentally friendly solution. These two priorities must go hand in hand. In many cases, automobiles remain a means of locomotion for the time being, but our citizens are also fully aware of the urgency of climate issues. Given the weight of the transport sector in greenhouse gas emissions, they know that we can no longer wait; They also know that we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels because their scarcity will inevitably reduce the cost of fuels. The way we favour, therefore, is that the greatest number of people have, in the long run, an alternative to the use of the car for their daily journeys. To achieve this, we are reforming the governance of mobility. The establishment of the mobility organizing authorities will allow for a better response to the needs of local communities and the opening up of territories that have been neglected for too long. We must also support the development of new mobilitys, such as carpooling, which reduce "autosolism"; We must encourage them, especially with the sustainable mobility package. Our committee has expressed strong expectations on this point, which I share. I hope that our discussions will allow us to make further progress on this essential issue. Our committee has also taken many steps to develop the use of bicycles because we are also very committed to promoting active mobility, which also addresses public health issues. Reforming governance and proposing new forms of mobility, everywhere and for all, are prerequisites for banning, from 2040 onwards, the sale of new private vehicles using fossil fuels, which our committee voted for. In a technological context that has never been more conducive to the ecological transition, this measure allows everyone to prepare for the necessary changes and gives the predictability that all the actors need. Last point I would like to stress: improving daily mobility also means devoting quality infrastructure and the corresponding funding to it. Substantive work has been carried out on this issue by the Infrastructure Guidance Board. The exercise was arduous. It may have caused bitterness when some projects have not been given priority. I note above all the exercise that he was responsible for: for each scenario chosen, the funding needs have been identified, and it is in knowledge that we will be able to determine ourselves. It is from this perspective that our committee has considered it necessary to provide for a contribution from the air sector, whose climate impact is known, to the financing of transport infrastructure. I will conclude by welcoming the work of our five great rapporteurs and our draftsmen, and thanking the minister for her listening and her availability, since our committee spent more than fifty-one hours examining the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] I have no doubt that our debates in public will be rich. We have the opportunity to improve the daily lives of all our citizens in practice: let us meet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u6	Mr Bruno Millienne, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u7	For a few months now, the question of French mobility has been at the centre of public debate, particularly in relation to the territorial divide, which seems to be reflected in the recent social crisis in our country. However, it was without waiting for the recent social demands that the Government, at the end of 2017, organized the Assises de la mobilité, where the issue of governance emerged as one of the main levers for improving the daily lives of our citizens. "To better meet the daily needs of citizens, territories and businesses": this is therefore the ambitious objective assigned to this law, more specifically under its title I, for which I am the rapporteur. At this stage of our work, I measure the task which is mine: to ensure, beyond all partisan chapels, that the general interest is the sole horizon. I know that this objective is shared by a very large majority of you, on the various benches of the House. I therefore approach the new phase of my mission with the same requirement as I imposed in committee: a requirement for myself to always keep in mind, beyond the primary temptations, the imperative of making the general interest take precedence; I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. My mindset, as our debates begin, is the same as the one that prevailed in committee: the Senate has made undeniably useful and welcome additions and amendments to the text that we would be wrong not to keep. This is what the Committee on Sustainable Development has done, while removing the provisions of the Senate which, on certain provisions, tended to distort the original philosophy of the text. I would like to humbly welcome the work of all the members of our committee, who, after rich exchanges and debates, have managed to produce a quality text, and I thank them for that. I also thank the Minister and her teams, who have contributed greatly to the quality of our discussions. I invite us to continue on this path in open session. Finally, let me express my sincere thanks to all the people I had the opportunity to receive at the hearings. Thanks to their particular look, their experience on the ground, their fine knowledge of the transport problem, they have brought a great deal. All told me the pleasure they had in working with the Minister and her teams in the Mobility Assembly, which was an exemplary exercise. I hope that the work we have done here will better meet their expectations, allowing us to return to a version of the text that is closer to the pre-projects that were circulated before the tabling of the Senate office bill. I know our assembly is able and willing to take its part in achieving this goal. I have already seen a few amendments to this effect; They will receive unreserved support from me. On the other hand, those who would complicate a text that is as simple and flexible as possible for the communities will run into my benevolent but firm opposition. I repeat: this text is intended for the territories, which will have to take it as soon as possible and as quickly as possible, because the expectations are great and old. As you know, the political family to which I belong, the Democratic Movement, is deeply committed to decentralization, to trust in our territories and their elected representatives. We are also committed and attentive to the diversity of our territories, which are each specific – and that is the whole meaning of our commitment to greater recognition of the right to territorial differentiation. If my role as rapporteur obliges me to place myself outside the issues of membership of a political group, my political DNA is such that all these issues are at the centre of my concerns. However, I do not believe in the principle that taking account of the specificities of our territories should systematically involve the inclusion of specific provisions in the law. Each of us could be inclined to give in to this temptation to satisfy the inhabitants of his territory. I see another much more effective way to address this legitimate concern that I often share: to provide communities with an ambitious, flexible framework that fully ensures respect for the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities. In short, what we need, what our communities need and what we need to work for is the definition of a framework of trust and responsibility. If communities do not take advantage of the tools available to them, if they do not take full advantage of their prerogatives, they will have to report them to citizens. The framework that we are in the process of building must allow for full coverage of the territory by a mobility organizing authority, or AOM. It should also enable the region to fully assume its leadership role, which appears to be possible with the reintroduction of operational mobility contracts in Article 4. This was one of the main fears that I felt when I read the original bill: how would the regions have effectively assumed their prerogatives without a tool that created a minimum of mutual constraints and commitments? How to resolve disagreements? This framework should also enable users and employers to be better involved in community mobility decisions. The provisions of Article 4 also address this imperative. They offer the AOM the opportunity to associate with the Committee of Partners any actor whose presence seems useful, without yielding to the temptation of a list to the Prévert in the text but trusting the territories. Finally, the prefects will also have an essential role to play as mediators to ensure that, in all territories, the AOMs can best meet the needs of their people. They will also intervene to remove the blocking points that could undermine the achievement of the ambitious objectives of this text. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I cannot conclude this statement without a few words on the strong social dimension of the project, in particular articles 6.7 and 7 bis, which deal with the issues of persons with disabilities or social vulnerability. The text is from this ambitious point of view; We will be able to discuss it and no doubt enrich it even more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u8	Mrs Bérangère Couillard, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u9	Mobility is at the heart of our society's challenges. Transportation is essential in the daily lives of French people: their proper functioning is essential for training, working or returning to work, for health care, for access to culture and leisure. However, transport policy is no longer adapted to the needs and expectations of citizens, especially those who are furthest removed from major cities and city centres. In preparation for almost two years and the result of a very broad consultation with the territories and mobility actors, this bill is a strong response to the territorial and social divides that have been undermining our country for decades. More than thirty-five years after the "LOTI" law on inland transport, this text is undergoing a profound transformation of our public transport policies. As you will have understood, this bill, built in concert, is primarily aimed at the territories and is intended to respond to the major challenges of mobility today and tomorrow, at the service of all and all territories. It is our common duty to address the territorial and social divide that has become difficult for our fellow citizens. The ambitions are clear and, I believe, shared in the Chamber. Title II, "Successing the revolution of new mobility", for which I had the honour of being appointed rapporteur, is particularly active. It aims to develop innovation and new mobility solutions for all. To provide the best answers to the diversity of needs, we can count on the tremendous potential of innovation. This is a wonderful opportunity that has created an unprecedented upheaval since the emergence of the individual car. This involves opening up real-time data from mobility offers to see the emergence of new door-to-door services. Open data and the development of digital mobility services – including route calculators and multimodal ticketing – are essential to encourage intermodality and combat "autosolism". The data that will be made available will make it possible to see the emergence of new services that will considerably simplify the daily travel of our citizens, in particular people with disabilities and reduced mobility. They will also facilitate the use of cleaner forms of mobility. For these reasons, the Government has chosen to go further than the 2017 European Delegated Regulation by expanding the data field, which will be open to so-called "dynamic" data, and by speeding up the data opening schedule – by December 2021 at the latest. This is an ambitious and necessary choice that will enable users to be informed in real time. Articles 12 to 14 encourage innovation in mobility. This is reflected in the construction of a legal framework for autonomous vehicles allowing, in particular, the adaptation of safety, liability or training rules. The opening of autonomous and connected vehicle data will also help to prevent and respond better in the event of accidents, but also to better understand the flow of travel in order to set up transport services adapted to the needs of our citizens. Article 14 creates a legal framework for the development of experiments on new mobility solutions, particularly in sparsely populated areas. The development of these new mobility services pursues the same objective: to allow a better displacement of our citizens, especially for those who currently have very little access to mobility, while promoting respect for the environment. This law will also provide all the necessary tools to support the development of car sharing and carpooling. These innovations must not be the prerogative of the big cities: they must benefit everyone in all the territories – I particularly want to do so. Short-distance carpooling is a solution for areas in which public transport is not always able to meet the daily mobility needs of French people. Seven in ten French people use their cars for their home-to-work journeys, and eight in ten in some areas. Carpooling accounts for only 3% of commuting, which is no longer acceptable: we must make sure that this rate increases. The bill therefore provides concrete tools for the development of this practice. Communities will be able to subsidize carpooling to assist those who use carpooling solutions for their home-to-work journeys. These aids will be defied: the French who benefit from them will therefore not have to declare them to the tax authorities. Outside the agglomeration, reserved lanes will be created, which carpool vehicles will be allowed to use; Thus, "co-carers" will benefit from a real saving of time for their journeys, avoiding some traffic jams. Title III will make it possible to create a sustainable mobility package, with the aim of offering all employees who make their home-to-work journeys by bicycle or carpooling to be able to benefit from this aid. These are concrete measures aimed at developing the practice of carpooling. The development of new shared mobility services, in particular free-floating bicycles and other equipment, innovative and low-polluting solutions, must also be encouraged but requires appropriate regulation, by giving communities the tools to guide these devices and ensure a balanced sharing of public space for all its users. The situations we are currently experiencing with the deployment of these services in the Territory are not acceptable. At times, communities have found themselves deprived of these new offers in their territory. A suitable framework should therefore be created to reconcile the preservation of public safety and tranquillity while ensuring the proper deployment of these new forms of mobility. I have dealt with it and I am sure that the solution we have found, which we will discuss in Article 18, is the right one. The bill was enriched in the consideration of Title II by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Land Use Planning. For example, we have strengthened the powers of ARAFER, the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities, concerning the opening of data, in particular for data on accessibility to persons with reduced mobility. We have enabled the development of efficient multimodal digital services while avoiding any risk of intermediation for transport operators whose services are sold on these platforms. We have adopted the publication and transmission to travellers of information on delays and cancellations of their journey so that passengers can assert their rights. We have clarified the framework for experiments on new mobilitys that can be carried out in the coming years to provide mobility solutions in sparsely populated areas. We have planned to punish drivers and operators who provide users with unbridled personal scooters and travel devices and drive at speeds greater than 25 kilometres per hour. Finally, the development of digital mobility platforms, in particular for VTCs – transport cars with drivers – and delivery, requires the provision of rights and guarantees to the self-employed who work through them. It is in this sense that, in the coming days, I will be defending concrete proposals for the charter provided for in section 20 of the original bill to be supplemented by a foundation of rights for all workers on the platforms. With regard to the self-employed with whom they are dealing, they have a social responsibility, which must lead to new, more binding rights for platforms. First of all, there must be an obligation for mobility platforms to be transparent to their self-employed workers: before each service they must be informed of its foreseeable minimum price and may refuse to do so without the possibility of reprisals. The platform will also have to publish on its website indicators on activity income, activity time and average price: transparency must be ensured. Self-employed workers on mobility platforms will be able to freely connect, disconnect and choose their activity time without being penalized. Finally, the right to vocational training must be strengthened for all these workers. These are real advances, which I believe and which I defend especially before you, with the hope that they lead to a new form of social dialogue that it is important to imagine and initiate quickly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will have understood, the ambition of the text, in particular its Title II, is to provide answers to the needs of our fellow citizens, answers necessary to improve the daily lives of millions of French people. This text is undergoing a profound transformation, the aim of which is to respond to the imperative set by the President of the Republic: concretely improve the daily mobility of all citizens, in all territories, through more efficient, cleaner and accessible transport solutions. I am convinced that we will have rich and quality debates, because we all share this objective, which meets the expectations of all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u10	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u11	The mobility guidance bill bears its name, in particular because of its title III. The challenges of climate change and air pollution are indeed long-term challenges for which collective mobilization is needed. But this long-term vision must be reflected in short- and medium-term actions. It is precisely the object of a law of orientation: on the one hand, to anticipate the major developments to come and to set a horizon for action; on the other hand, to build the means to move forward, now, towards these objectives. This bill must therefore answer two questions, concerning the development of cleaner and more active mobility: what is our horizon? How can we reach him? First, what horizon do we want to set? It is twofold, and the two dimensions are linked: to combat climate change and, at the same time, to combat air pollution. The chemist I am reminded that it is not the same molecules that are involved in both phenomena: carbon dioxide is the main cause of the amplification of the greenhouse effect – a natural phenomenon – while nitrogen oxides and fine particles are the major pollutants of the air we breathe. However, these are two phenomena to combat simultaneously, because they threaten our health, here and now, in terms of air pollution, and they threaten the habitability of certain parts of the world, in the long term, in the case of climate change. The roadmap is therefore clear: we must limit the rise in global temperatures well below 2 degrees to take up the terms of the 2015 Paris agreement. To achieve this, industrialized countries must achieve a carbon-neutral goal by the middle of the century, that is, within 30 years. This is the objective that France is about to set itself in the draft law on energy and climate, which will soon be discussed in our Assembly: to aim for carbon neutrality by 2050, that is to say not to emit more greenhouse gases than our carbon sinks – in particular our forests and agriculture – are able to absorb on that date. To achieve this great purpose, which I believe we share on every bench, we will have to destroy the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the use of land vehicles. This is precisely the objective that the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has set in Article 26 AA of the draft law: "France sets itself the objective of achieving, by 2050, the complete decarbonisation of the land transport sector. » In order to achieve this, intermediate targets, which form as many crossing points, have been introduced into the bill, including the end of the sale of new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles using fossil fuels by 2040. In 20 years' time, new diesel or gasoline vehicles will no longer be marketed. Second set of objectives: those that allow the recovery of air quality. The latest figures from the European Environment Agency show that air pollution is responsible for about 500,000 premature deaths per year in Europe. In France, the latest studies, published last March, report more than 600,000 premature deaths due to air pollution each year. This is therefore a major public health issue. Several areas of our country regularly exceed European air quality standards: proceedings are under way against France before the Court of Justice of the European Union for exceeding the limit values of the average concentration of nitrogen oxides or fine particulate matter in thirteen areas. There is an urgent need to act in order to preserve the health of our citizens. The objectives are therefore clear: the prospect of complete decarbonisation of land transport by 2050 and compliance with air quality standards as soon as possible. But how can we reach them? That is the second question that this bill invites us to answer. To this end, it proposes many measures, which constitute a whole, in which I will distinguish five main orientations. Firstly, the promotion of active mobility, which has the triple advantage of not emitting greenhouse gases, of not generating nearby pollutants and of being beneficial to the health of those who practice them. That is why, in committee, we have strengthened this orientation, which is already substantially reflected in the Government's original text, which aims to translate into law certain measures announced in the framework of the bike plan presented in September 2018. Secondly, the promotion of intermodality. By creating secure parking for bicycles or fighting theft, the aim is to remove obstacles to the use of bicycles. We have also introduced in committee the obligation to include in the advertisements for motor vehicles a message aimed at promoting active and shared mobility. Further progress will also be discussed during the session, in particular with a view to generalising the construction of bicycles. The promotion of active and shared mobility also requires that our citizens have the financial means to take advantage of it. This is the spirit of the sustainable mobility package, which is set out in clause 26 of the bill: it must both encourage active and shared mobility, and help our citizens finance their daily travel. We have made the choice in committee to give the social partners time to reach agreement on the issue of commuting. This is now on track, and I thank our colleagues from all the benches who have agreed to withdraw their amendments in committee to allow time for these discussions. I am convinced – and this seems to be widely shared among you – that the issue of mobility must be placed at the heart of social dialogue in companies; That is the meaning of one of the amendments I have tabled. The sustainable mobility package will, I hope, be a step forward in providing our citizens with the purchasing power to cope with daily travel and develop the practice of carpooling and active mobility. In view of the number and richness of the amendments tabled on the subject, I imagine that we will discuss them in depth. Thirdly, the promotion of low-emission vehicles. In committee, we have adopted important provisions aimed at greening the fleets of large companies – those that count and use more than 100 vehicles – with a progressive and ambitious trajectory that will lead to a minimum rate of 50% of low-emission vehicles by 2030. In a public session, we will propose to go further, also by placing obligations on taxis and VTCs affiliated with booking centres, and by increasing obligations on public fleets, so that public authorities can be exemplary in this respect, in accordance with European commitments. To ensure compliance with these obligations, we will propose the establishment of a transparent mechanism for the annual publication of results. The gradual spread of low-emission vehicles also means removing the brakes on their use; I am thinking in particular of the lack of charging infrastructure, which is an important limitation on their deployment. Fourthly, it is precisely a question of developing them, whether by pre-equipment of new buildings or by equipping the parking lots of existing non-residential buildings. Again, I will propose to reinforce this logic by improving the right to take and creating what might be termed "collective right to take". We will also encourage communities to develop recharging infrastructure deployment patterns. Finally, in committee, we have strengthened the provisions of the bill on the control of local pollution. It is a matter of particular interest to me as President of the National Air Council, and I am pleased that the Government has taken the opportunity of this text to strengthen the pollution control system, in particular by creating action plans for air quality and creditizing the mechanism for low-emission areas. Although the fight against pollution is relevant in the transport sector, it cannot be reduced. That is why I have proposed in committee that low-emission areas must be described as "low-emission mobility areas" in order to be quite rigorous. Indeed, they must not conceal the necessary action in the other emitters. These provisions should encourage us to adopt a cross-cutting approach to air pollution control, based on the exemplary work of the approved air quality monitoring associations. This pollution affects each and every one of us because, by its constancy and its magnitude, it represents a real health scourge, against which we must fight to give us the opportunity to breathe an air that does not harm our health. I would like to stress that the text adopted by the committee is a working basis that needs to be further strengthened. That is the meaning of the discussions I have had over the past few days with the Minister's teams and many of you, in order to bring to fruition the ideas presented in committee which seemed to be in the right direction but whose wording was nevertheless still perfectable. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will therefore have to discuss important issues together, which will guide our public policies for the years to come. Setting a horizon, as I said at the beginning of my speech, and giving ourselves the means to move forward in its direction, are the two objectives that we must pursue in the coming days. One cannot go without the other if one wishes, as Jules Renard wrote, that "the horizon be closer tonight than this morning".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u12	Mrs Bérangère Abba, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u13	Thirty-seven years ago, nearly thirty-seven years ago, the Inland Transportation Orientation Act affirmed a right to transportation, which would allow for reasonable access, quality and price, as well as cost to the community. While LOTI has long been a reference, lifestyles and context have changed. Victims of decades of major projects, to the detriment of the maintenance of secondary hair networks, our public transport policies have been lost on the way. The last decades were those of major announcements and unfunded projects, those of underinvestment in infrastructure, all too often those of policies encouraging all-cars. The French now aspire to cheaper and more low-cost modes of transport in terms of time, energy and carbon. We need to respond to climate and public health emergencies, geostrategic energy sovereignty issues and prepare for the future in terms of mobility. We are indeed inheriting degraded infrastructure that requires a considerable effort to upgrade. The individual car remains indispensable to many of our fellow citizens, who have to date no other solution, and it is their difficulties, especially when they live in rural areas, that have been strongly expressed in the social movement that our country has just passed through. The mobility guidance law provides answers to these difficulties. As early as 2017, the National Assembly on Mobility and the work of the Infrastructure Guidance Board allowed for broad consultation. Here we are radically changing our paradigm, moving away from a vision centered on large infrastructures to those of everyday life, closer to the needs of the French and the territories. Title I A of the draft law – originally Title IV – sets out the programming of State investment in transport for the next ten years, with the attached report setting out this strategy. By giving us multi-annual visibility on transport policy and directing investment towards improving people's mobility and optimising freight transport, Title I A of the mobility guidance law has four main objectives: to reduce territorial inequalities by increasing the accessibility of landlocked areas and areas poorly connected to large agglomerations; focus our efforts on daily travel, improving the quality of road, rail and river networks; accelerate the energy transition by promoting modal rebalancing towards the least polluting transport; Finally, improve the efficiency of freight transport by facilitating modal reporting. To achieve this, five priority investment programmes have been defined: the maintenance and modernisation of existing national networks; the desaturation of the major railway nodes; the opening up of medium-sized towns and rural areas; the development of the use of cleaner mobility and shared mobility; support for an ambitious freight transport policy. As you will understand, here we are facing two major challenges: the grid of the territory and its road, rail and river networks, as well as the development of new mobility and active modes; the funding of such programming and the resources allocated to it, not least. Installed in 2017 during the Assises de la mobilité, with the mission of proposing to the Government an investment strategy, the Board of Infrastructure Guidance, like the mobility commission 21 before it, was able to establish the state of play and prioritize the needs. Section 1 C continues this body of expertise and proposal, which will ensure the implementation of the objectives of this bill, in particular through the members of Parliament who will sit on it. The attached report confirms the objective of completing major road, rail and river routes, recalling the Government's choice to use scenario 2 as defined by the Infrastructure Guidance Board – the IOC – in its January 2018 report. This scenario favours the implementation of the priorities of restoration and modernization of the heritage and improvement of the mobilitys of the daily for about ten years to a high level of ambition, in breach of previous practices, centered, as we have seen, on the major projects. In the Senate, and then in the National Assembly when the text was discussed in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, there were plans to extend the list of priority projects or to include specific projects in the law. I welcome this because the work of the IOC is the result of months or even years of observation and fine analysis of the national network and infrastructure needs. Therefore, without betraying the suspense, I will express an unfavorable opinion on any amendment that would weaken these balances. Also comes the question of the financing of this programming and the trajectory of the expenses of AFITF, the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France. The substantial effort of the State to invest in transport – almost €28 billion over ten years – calls for a secure allocation of resources to AFITF and additional revenue. We share, I believe, the desire to achieve clear guidelines on infrastructure financing and to make appointments for finance laws. Recent events, when the revenues of radar fines assigned to the Agency fell sharply, have reminded us hard: some components of AFITF's resources are far too uncertain. We, like our honourable senators, will be committed to the sustainability of AFITF's resources and to the sincerity of the funding of this programming. That is why we will continue our reflection with the Government today on ways to consolidate and increase its revenues. The Senate also proposed, as the first basis, the principle of the full allocation to AFITF of the product of the increase of the TICEP by 2 cents of euro per litre on diesel for light vehicles and 4 cents for heavy vehicles, introduced by the 2015 Finance Law, which compensated for the abandonment of the ecotax. Several amendments discussed in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning have also made progress in this area. On a proposal from your rapporteur, we have already adopted the principle of paying AFITF the surplus of the solidarity tax on airline tickets, known as the Chirac tax. This provision, of a significant financial scope, since it is expected to provide €30 million to €50 million per year, is particularly symbolic in that we mark the participation of the air sector, with a high environmental impact, in the financing of infrastructure and in the development of clean mobility. Beyond that, certain measures depend, as we know, on decisions taken at European level and international agreements. The President of the Republic has called for France to be at the forefront of these issues and to take decisive action. In this context, we will have to mention provisions on air transport in particular. In conclusion, on this title of the bill and its attached report, the amendments made by the Senate seem to me to reflect a general support for the objectives, even though the High Assembly has wished to change its order and wording in places. These developments show that everyone has been able to free themselves from the postures – which I welcome – and work on the basis of common priorities that must, on the merits, be able to reach consensus. This is also the feeling that has emerged from the many hearings I have conducted with mobility actors. Let me welcome the Minister's dialogue with local executive bodies, including regional presidents, which has led to the identification of shared diagnoses and priorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the past, transport policies have all too often been translated into renunciations and failures. This text, through its pragmatism and voluntarism, is a major asset for a successful mobility policy close to the daily lives of our citizens. It is an unprecedented and strong political act to submit to Parliament for the first time a programme of investment in transport. After the very rich exchanges which took place in committee, it is with confidence and with a certain enthusiasm that I commit myself with you to the examination of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u14	Mrs Zivka Park, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u15	The social movement that has upset our country in recent months is indisputably rooted in the feeling our fellow citizens feel of living in peripheral territories cut off from the metropolises. The price of housing excludes them from the dynamic metropolises where wealth creation and economic growth are concentrated. Access to employment, training and culture is increasingly complicated. In short, we must respond to a territorial divide that has worsened in recent decades. The mobility policy bill that the Government is submitting to our Assembly is one of the responses to these fractures that undermine the cohesion of the territories. It is a matter of improving the movement of people on a daily basis, for all our citizens, in all territories. We welcome the quality of the consultation work that was carried out prior to the presentation of this text to the Assembly and the constructive discussions that took place in committee. The Mobility Facilities have been a time of exchange and dialogue with mobility actors, including operators, elected representatives of the territories, employers and users. This bill is embarking on a profound transformation of mobility, as all my fellow rapporteurs have been able to express by referring to the titles on which they have competence. This text puts in place instruments that local and regional authorities will have to take into account in order to better manage the mobility of their citizens. It also accompanies the digital transformation at work in the field of mobility, which has been faster than the public authorities. The idea of this bill is to open up, simplify the management of mobility in order to create new opportunities for users according to their territory and in line with constantly changing expectations and behaviour. All this, however, cannot be achieved without a fundamental consideration of the issue of the ecological transition. The development of clean mobility is indeed a requirement of our citizens. More specifically, Title V, which I report, introduces various measures covering all mobilitys, both for persons and for goods, and relating to land, rail, river and sea modes. It highlights several objectives: enhancing the security of mobility and safety in public land transport networks; Improving the competitiveness of maritime and inland waterway freight transport; the implementation of financing and modernisation tools. The safety of the French in everyday mobility is a major concern of the draft law, in particular through measures aimed at strengthening the system of sanctions against violations of the rules of road safety. Other specific measures are aimed at securing the routes of road users, especially after various dramatic events in connection with crossing level crossings. The report by our colleague Laurence Gayte has given rise to a number of measures in this area; I wanted to pay tribute to the quality of his work. Some of the road safety measures that we will have the opportunity to discuss together have been debated in the Senate. Our colleagues in this chamber wanted to see some relaxation or even the removal of new devices. Nevertheless, in committee, the fight against alcohol and the taking of drugs was reaffirmed as a priority of road safety, which led to the re-establishment of effective measures to combat behaviour that increases the risk of traffic accidents. However, to act in favour of the safety of our mobility is also to act upstream. The text puts in place more favourable conditions for the proper learning of driving and access to driving licences, in particular on the basis of the recommendations of the report by our colleague Frédérique Dumas. Road safety is also, as we propose, the strengthening of preventive measures. Beyond the issue of mobility safety, Title V opens up RATP's public urban bus transport networks to competition, with an important social component. Under European law, the operation of RATP networks is scheduled to compete from the end of 2024 for bus mode, from the end of 2029 for tram mode and from the end of 2039 for metro and RER modes. With a view to opening public transport services by bus to competition from 1 January 2025, the draft law intends to establish a convergence of the conditions of intervention of the various operators in the sector. This competition raises the questions of a new specific legal framework, the arrangements for the transfer of employment contracts from employees and the portability of certain rights deriving from the Staff Regulations. The aim is to implement the conditions for the success of this transfer in order to ensure that it takes place in the best possible conditions, and to ensure the continuity of the public service for users. The draft law thus provides for the transfer to the new employer of employment contracts for employees in the event of a change of operator. In addition, the continuation of contracts will be accompanied by the transfer of high-level social guarantees. The Commission's work has led to progress, in particular on the following points: determining the consequences of the refusal of the transfer; the terms of the termination indemnity paid in the event of a refusal to transfer; the establishment of a procedure for the automatic transfer of contracts of employment in the event of a change of operator, which will apply everywhere in France, in particular to the staff of OPTILE – the Organisation professionnelle des transports d'Île-de-France – in the grand crown. In all cases, the challenge is to ensure the continuity of public service for users. With the opening to competition of transport in Île-de-France, safety is an issue for the coherence of the system. It is important to ensure a high level of security of persons and property. With the development of the Grand Paris, whose RATP is an infrastructure manager, four lines, 200 kilometres of tracks and sixty new stations will be added to the already densely populated francilian network. The bill proposes to entrust the entire metropolitan network to a unified and harmonized security service, the GPSR, Network Protection and Security Group. The text seeks to establish and ensure a high level of safety for travellers, and to avoid the risks of fragmentation between several actors in safety management. With regard to simplification measures aimed at improving the competitiveness of maritime, inland waterway and rail transport, the aim is to enable stakeholders in the sector, in particular large seaports, to operate within a stable legal framework and to develop and modernise a number of measures related to maritime navigation and inland waterway navigation, in particular with regard to safety. In addition, as the movement of goods increases, the bill promotes the use of more environmentally friendly modes of transport of goods, including through the establishment of a strategy for the development of rail freight. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You will understand, open, simplify and modernize are the key words of the title I have the honour to report, but it is also the general spirit of the mobility orientation bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u16	I call Mr Damien Adam, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u17	The Committee on Economic Affairs is very pleased to have been able to work on this founding text, the mobility guidance bill, to bring out cleaner, more efficient and more accessible mobility solutions, in order to develop real alternatives to the individual thermal car. As rapporteur, however, I remain committed to complementing certain measures, to further speed up the deployment of the clean vehicle while improving the competitiveness of our industry. First of all, I am convinced that the installation of electric charging stations can be further encouraged and facilitated. For the development of electric mobility, access to a charging station is obviously essential. While it is quite easy to have a terminal installed at home when living in a single house, it is now extremely complicated for a person living in a condominium to benefit from what is called the "right to take". Too complicated and far too long, the current law provides for a maximum period of 18 months between the initial request of a tenant and the trustee's response. This delay and the procedure to be followed are incompatible with the purchase of an electric vehicle. However, condominiums account for 8.4 million dwellings, or 21 per cent of the housing stock. They are a major issue for the installation of electric charging points and, consequently, the development of electric vehicles. The text before us provides for significant progress in reducing the time limits for the right to take. However, I believe that we need to go even further. That is why I will propose an amendment to reduce the trustee's response time to three months, specifying the procedure to be followed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u18	Moreover, the current application of the right to take is likely to create inequalities between the occupants of the same collective building. In addition to two or three locations equipped with charging stations, the common electrical system of the building must be adapted to increase its power. If the first occupants only have to bear the costs of pulling a cable and plugging it into the electrical panel, the following co-owners will encounter the difficulty of having to review the entire electrical system at a much higher cost and will therefore not be able to exercise their individual right to the plug. My own conviction is that the installation of collective infrastructure in car parks for all condominiums is inevitable in the long term, in order to allow the development of electric vehicles for all and to guarantee equality between citizens. The measures in the text, however, are not limited to electric mobility, which cannot yet cover all uses. Referring to the substance of Article 25, the Committee on Economic Affairs has examined the measures to support natural gas for vehicles known as "GNV" and "bioGNV", a transitional and niche energy particularly suitable for heavy goods vehicles, buses and industrial vehicles. As with the electric vehicle, the development of gas and biogas in transport will require the creation, in the coming years, of a network of suitable supply stations. Because it is sometimes difficult to link biogas production sites to the grid, the text will provide additional remuneration for farmers producing biogas, who are forced to transport their production on their own to the stations. In particular, I will propose an amendment to secure these compensation supplements, removing the possibility of amending the current remuneration contracts, in order to avoid any uncertainty regarding their income. In addition, the Senate wanted to introduce new obligations for greening the fleets of companies. These provisions have received the full support of the Committee on Economic Affairs because the fleets of companies play a locomotive role in the automotive market. I will again propose that these obligations be combined with a mechanism of sanctions and public monitoring, based on the principle of name and shame. This mechanism seems essential to me for the fulfilment of these new obligations; Without the sanction provided for in the law, the latter could indeed remain only theoretical. Finally, I welcome the inclusion in the text of the target for the end of sales of 100% petrol and diesel vehicles by 2040. Because this horizon, in order to be credible, must be accompanied by verifiable intermediate objectives, I will propose to resume that of reaching, in 2022, a number of sales of new vehicles with very low emissions at least five times the number of sales recorded in 2017. I will conclude with a wink, evoking a mobility that is content with entirely renewable and inexhaustible energy: the sailboat, too rare in our country. We have the chance to welcome to Rouen, from June 6 to 16, the Armada, the largest gathering of sailboats in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I warmly invite you to come to this great popular festival, to mix you with the 5,000 sailors from all over the world and the 6 million visitors expected to admire the most beautiful civilian and military ships in the world, such as the Belem, the Meta, the Themis, or the Hermione, which we all know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u21	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u22	In examining the mobility policy bill – LOM – the Finance Committee has ensured consistency and readability between our policies in the field of transport infrastructure and services, and our budgetary and fiscal guidelines. With LOM, state policy will gain credibility, thanks to the multi-year visibility of programming to set projects according to available, reliable and credible resources. We avoid any additional costs associated with the ageing of networks, which are almost obsolete in different places, we give visibility and reliability to the stakeholders of the BTP and the local and regional authorities involved, and we escape the pitfalls in the projects. This programming is the result of the demanding work and the quality of which is recognized by all, carried out by the Infrastructure Guidance Board, to sequence and prioritize projects designed to improve the daily mobility of French people and consolidate the implementation of new major projects. The partners guarantee their commitment. As a result, SNCF Réseau will modernize train paths and stations, and will also invest in new operating techniques. We are also dedicating the necessary resources to intensify the regeneration of the unlicensed national road network. This programming is the opposite of a list of projects that would quickly make the law obsolete. The Finance Committee has strengthened this orientation by inviting the European network of TETs – the balance trains of the territory – and night trains. At my initiative, she also called for improved access to government-funded calls for projects for smaller communities. Similarly, at the initiative of the rapporteur-general, Joël Giraud, it sought to facilitate investments at the interface of licensed and unlicensed road networks. These strategic choices are based on unprecedented financial commitments by the Government, with an increase of 40 per cent in the operational costs of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France. In concrete terms, these will be extra ringing and stumbling euros for our territories. For example, the additional AFITF resources for 2019 amount to €2.5 billion, a quarter more than its 2016 budget, which was €1.8 billion. As a result, the situation is getting worse; I think we're on the right track. From 2020 onwards, the Agency will need to be allocated an additional EUR 500 million in order to approach the EUR 3 billion in expenditure. In 2018, the collapse of revenues from the "radar" special-purpose account, caused by the damage caused in the margin of the movement of yellow vests, resulted in a loss of €200 million for the Agency, the last beneficiary of this account and only to suffer the consequences. The Finance Committee has made it clear that this shortfall can be caught up throughout the programming process, the main thing being to raise the EUR 13.7 billion after five years. As soon as the next finance law is in place, we will have to dedicate new resources to AFITF, commensurate with the financial programming of the LOM. It will then be necessary to clearly detail to the national representation the implementation between the budget appropriations of the "Transport Infrastructure and Services" program and the expenditure of the AFITF. In fact, the Agency is mainly a fund, with a large part of the expenditure going to the general budget through competition funds, which sometimes raises readability problems. The Committee on Finance has adopted an amendment to that effect. Secondly, the Finance Committee examined the question of the resources of the mobility organising authorities. She argued for the stability of the scope of the transport payment, known as "mobility payment", or VM, as this is a production tax that must be amended with the utmost caution. It sought to restore the link, weakened by the Senate, between the VM and the funding of at least one regular public passenger transport service, which does not preclude the use of these revenues to finance other mobility services. However, the mobility payment does not seem to be a suitable source of funding for the less dense areas, even in the form of the interstitial mobility payment proposed by the Senate, which we consider complex to implement. We need to define new levers to finance mobility policies adapted to our territories, so varied in rural areas, such as transport on demand or shared mobility. It is essential to combat social and territorial inequalities. The Senate has proposed to assign a share of the ICTPE directly to the organizing authorities, which is contrary to the LOLF. The Finance Committee therefore had to remove this irregular assignment. During the review of the PLF, it will be up to the Government to define new revenues, which could be part of the overall reform of local taxation and, where appropriate, either through an endowment mechanism, ensuring a contribution from the State but also an equalization between communities, or through decentralization of a complementary share of ICTPE. I will conclude by welcoming the new opportunities offered to our waterway system, which are essential to make our industrial basins and ports more competitive, and to achieve our ecological transition objectives through the modal shift to the waterway. I also welcome the amendment tabled by the Government to transfer directly the management of the Seine-Nord Europe Canal project company to the local authorities involved, a method preferable to that of the ordinances. The objectives of three amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance on my initiative to secure the massive European funding expected under this structuring project are thus met. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This bill is a great tool to help the French in their daily travel and to make the mobility of people and goods more sustainable in our beautiful country. Congratulations, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u23	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u24	Speaking of mobility rather than transport, we integrate the concept of travel into all facets of the Republic. Through mobility, we will also address the issues of spatial planning, access to care, public services, employment, the link between employment and housing. In this way we will discuss all the elements of the daily lives of our fellow citizens, beyond the technical aspects which have long governed the policies pursued in this field. Mobility is a fundamental element of our daily life. It is one of the main demands to have emerged from the great national debate, through little criticism of public policies. Expectations are high. To respond to this, this bill has a clear ambition: to allow everyone to move, without hindrance linked to inequalities between territories, social insecurity or a situation of disability. These issues are of direct concern to the Law Commission, which has taken up the opinion of Title I. The aim is first of all to put an end to the white areas of mobility. In too many areas, communities face difficulties in implementing their mobility organization skills, including lack of engineering capabilities. It is therefore essential to identify the relevant scale of intervention and to allow the most relevant solution to emerge in each territory. At the local level, Article 1 provides for the competence of voluntary intercommunalities or, failing that, of the region, in the alternative, in order to cover the territory completely. Coherence of locally implemented solutions will be ensured by the region at the level of mobility basins, whose responsibility it will define the perimeters. Secondly, Title I also enables the organising authorities to seize the opportunities represented by new, often innovative, forms of mobility, particularly active and shared mobility. While the latter require regulation by legislators and local authorities, they also represent an opportunity for some territories that remain outside the major transport networks. Thirdly, Title I seeks to enable the competent authorities to promote more inclusive mobility, so as to bring vulnerable audiences closer to mobility services. These arrangements are the result of a method: the National Mobility Facilities, which enabled all mobility players to formulate proposals and participate in the debate. The dialogue was welcomed by all stakeholders. Many of the solutions chosen in terms of governance are the result of a spirit of consensus, to which our honourable senators' consideration of the text was no exception on the whole. The work of the Law Commission was in the same spirit, in connection with the committee seized on the merits. I agree with the provisions that bind the various players in mobility by reconciling objectives that relate both to the promotion of mobility solutions in all territories and to the ecological transition and the modal shift towards the least polluting mobilitys. The implementation by the organizing authorities of the mobility of faculties opened by this bill will have to be ensured without territorial break, linked in particular to the administrative limits. Our country has undergone numerous reorganisations of territories concerning regions and intercommunalities or linked to the emergence of metropolises. It is a complex legacy that sometimes hardly meets with an adjusted definition of living pools and thus mobility territories. In this respect, adjustments are desirable to facilitate the fluidity of mobility solutions across administrative boundaries. Another area of vigilance is the production and analysis of data on the mobility economy. From a governance perspective, the missions of the regional economic, social and environmental councils may need to be strengthened. All stakeholders in a mobility pool must also be able to be consulted, on certain occasions, outside the framework set by the partners' committees. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The right to transport, which has been extended into a right to mobility, will allow us, on behalf of the Committee on Laws, to submit a number of amendments. This mobility actively contributes to the planning of the territory, to the very definition of the next organization of our territories. That is why we want a careful examination of this text, so that you, the minister, have a tool adapted to the conduct of public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u25	Mrs Monica Michel, the information rapporteur of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u26	The mobility policy bill is – should we recall it? – the result of extensive upstream work. I would very much like to commend the exemplary approach taken by Minister Elizabeth Borne in the development of this text. The associations of local elected representatives have participated widely and their views have been taken into account, I welcome this. The aim of this text towards local and regional authorities can be summed up in three main principles: coverage of the whole territory; opening of movement and traffic data; fewer cars and other air pollutant emitting vehicles. The first challenge is to fill the white areas of mobility, estimated at 80% of the territory, by creating the most fine and developed territorial grid. The second issue concerns the collection and opening up of travel data for the development of digital mobility services. This subject, of great technical complexity, covers very important issues for the mobility organising authorities, which are local and regional authorities. The third issue is the need to limit carbon emissions. After the important work done by the Senate, the consideration of the bill in the Committee on Sustainable Development and Land Use Planning provided much clarification. Thus, under Title I, in the event that a region takes over the competence of AOM, the municipalities, which will no longer be AOM, will, however, be able to continue to levy the mobility payment in order to maintain the pre-existing transport services they have organised. The resumption of internal regional services within the territorial jurisdiction of a community of communes is a matter for regional school services, on a regular and demand-driven basis. The text provides for the free choice of method of advertising for the authorities which organise a mainly tourist transport service. It clarifies the concept of full financial compensation contained in article 133 of the NOTRE Act – the new territorial organization of the Republic – on financial compensation between departments and regions. It leaves members of a mixed union the freedom to define the rules of majority, in order to have a governance built locally and adapted to the diversity of mobility solutions to be deployed in the territories. It removes the proposed prorata of the transport payment based on the time spent on telework, which would only add to the complexity of the calculation of this payment. It makes the introduction of full mobility payments conditional on the organisation of regular public passenger transport services. As regards operational mobility contracts, it involves the managers of multimodal stations and hubs in the mobility pool, which are essential partners in order to improve the functioning of the connecting nodes between mobility services in practice. It re-establishes the monitoring committees for rail services, which bring together user associations, associations of disabled persons and elected representatives of the local and regional authorities concerned. The change in the terminology of rural mobility plans, which become simplified mobility plans and can be found in all the territories not subject to the obligation of a mobility plan, brings together a very broad typology of territories. The freight transport component is included in these simplified mobility plans. The PLU – a local planning plan – will be able to define the rules for parking and delivery areas necessary for future logistics sites, which will provide legal certainty to communities wishing to set specific requirements to compensate for the lack of delivery areas in the public space. On the other hand, I regret the choice to reconsider the reversibility of the transfer of competence to organise mobilitys based on a common agreement between the region and the community of communes. I also regret, with regard to safety on private roads, that my amendment has not been accepted, while we regret the injuries, sometimes even deaths. I have tabled a series of amendments in committee, both to improve the accessibility of mobility infrastructures for people with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility, and to increase the flexibility of implementation for local and regional authorities; These amendments were adopted. Thus, in urban networks, AOMs will be able to compensate for ITA stops – a proven technical impossibility – by making non-priority stops accessible rather than by alternative transport. The range of solutions to the alternative obligations in the road transport of persons will be expanded, in line with what is already provided for in the rail sector: not only alternative transport, but also other simpler or lighter alternative measures, including accompanying measures. The grid of the communal territory will be improved, by distributing accessible locations throughout the municipality, instead of requiring that all roads be equipped, and by making known to the general public and, consequently, to associations representing persons with disabilities or with reduced mobility, the status of the accessibility programming of the organising authorities responsible for the preparation of the planned accessibility master plans. As regards Title II, the Commission's clarifications relate, first, to the provision for free re-use of data below a certain level or frequency. Above all, AOMs will be protected against the risk of disintermediation resulting from an uncoordinated development of multimodal ticketing services. However, in my view, there are some points that need to be clarified, such as the modalities for setting up an EFA – a low-emission zone – in the territory of the MGP – Greater Paris metropolis – in order to effectively meet the objectives of Article 28. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, local and regional authorities are the main players in the many issues raised by this bill. On behalf of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, I will present a series of amendments aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the proposed measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u27	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group a motion of rejection in advance, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u28	Every year, in France, air pollution costs us more than 100 billion euros and is responsible for 67,000 premature deaths. The transport sector alone accounts for 30% of greenhouse gas emissions. In the face of such a situation, which we can legitimately call a matter of concern, the gap between the Government's communication on the mobility policy bill and the reality of the decisions taken is a matter of political irresponsibility. A law that claimed to revolutionize mobility had to respond to two issues of concern to the French: stop losing hours in traffic jams, when their work is becoming more and more distant from their home; meet France's own targets for reducing energy consumption in the transport sector. However, the bill does not provide any concrete answers to these questions and, once again, proves your government's complete disconnection from the daily concerns of our fellow citizens: 40% of the people in this country do not have access to public transport and see the small lines of everyday life closed one after the other. However, in the face of this spatial and social relegation, you propose a vision of urban and elitist mobility. During the discussion in committee, Madam Minister, you assured me that three quarters of the state's investment in transportation is in clean mobility. But the Nobel Prize in Ecology risks escaping you again because "at the same time", as you say, the state continues to finance air transport to the tune of 505 million euros per year. They should be compared to the 50 small million per year, for seven years, of the bike plan, which is presented in a large pump, i.e. 0.7 euro per inhabitant per year, four times less than the need to reduce our backlog, and twice less than the IOC's recommendations. If the government is looking for funding, it can look at the tax niches on aviation kerosene, but this issue is not even mentioned in the bill. It would seem that Members are not entitled to discuss the air, although this sector is fully part of the problem we are looking at. A new gap between words and deeds, Madam Minister: you assure me that you are investing five times more in rail than on the road, while the programming of investments up to 2027 provides for the financing of a shovel of major unnecessary projects: the Lyon-Turin line, the Seine-Nord Europe Canal and a whole lot of motorway bypasses and other LGVs in PPP – public-private partnerships – which cost billions of public money and accelerate global warming. Of the sums allocated for the rehabilitation of the railway network, you continue to highlight the 3.6 billion envisaged in the programming plan: again, the magnitude of the problem does not seem to have been perceived. Years of policy at the service of the LGV and the all-roader have left our rail network in such a state of disrepair that the sums announced are very derisory in terms of needs. For the New Aquitaine region alone, EUR 1.1 billion is needed to restore the regional network only and avoid the closure of several threatened lines. Beyond the planned investments, which continue to pave the way for the ecological disaster, it is the large-scale private-sector warehousing that continues with the mobility law. Thanks to the transport infrastructure we have in the country, we have the opportunity to put this network at the service of social settlement and ecological transition while bringing revenue back to the state. The Government is doing the opposite, however, by entrusting the keys to our strategic infrastructure to the private sector. After Aéroports de Paris, you take advantage of this bill to open the door to privatisation of certain road sections: in a word, the transformation of some national roads into motorways for the benefit of the private sector; It's a new gift to autoroutian societies, everyone knows how fat they are on our backs. In the face of the ecological emergency, while our time is precious, you continue to make us lose it by fuelling shareholders to profusion rather than fighting global warming. For all these reasons, the La France insoumée group calls for the preliminary rejection of the draft law on the orientation of mobilitys, in order to transform it into a draft law on the orientation of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u29	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u30	You will understand that I do not share your reading of the text: perhaps you have not participated sufficiently in committee to assess the importance of the reorientation of our investment policy, whose priorities are very clear, particularly in terms of the maintenance and modernisation of our networks, in line with the expectations of our fellow citizens. Three quarters of our investments, in the next ten years, will actually go to rail transport. More fundamentally, the text is based on trust in communities and businesses, in order to provide the answers expected by our fellow citizens, as closely as possible to the needs. The ecological transition of our mobility must also be undertaken; It seemed to me that our fellow citizens had expressed very strong expectations in this regard. Therefore, I can only be against your motion to reject, which would deprive the House of the opportunity to discuss and improve the text before it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u31	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u32	The Liberties and Territories Group is not in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand, Mr Prud'homme. You have set out three reasons that may seem skilful to reject the text: it does not remove the plugs; it does not contribute to the reduction of energy consumption in the field of transport; it does not include air transport. With regard to the disappearance of traffic jams, the point is a little short because there is a need for very heavy investment in this area. We must not forget to look in the mirror, namely the policy pursued over the last ten years. However, this text has the advantage of putting the transport problem into perspective, even if it is possible to be critical on many points. This argument cannot therefore be accepted. Moreover, to say that it does not contribute to the reduction of energy consumption in the field of transport is a little strong coffee! The text makes it possible to project itself in the future through the transport of tomorrow, in particular by taking into account the provisions of the European Union, which, in the field of transport, have set very heavy binding targets for the motor vehicle sector, as you know very well. These objectives require, I repeat, that tomorrow's transport be planned in terms of financing mobility, and this text addresses this problem. As for the question of air transport, it obviously goes beyond the national scope; We have responded on the subject very broadly in committee. As the LT Group is eager to consider the text at the sitting, I repeat, it opposes the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u33	Mr Michel Delpon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u34	The La République en marche group is surprised by this motion to reject the Group of the European People's Party's Party in advance, because adopting it would be tantamount to refusing the rich and lively debates which await us in the next few days, with more than 3500 amendments. Reject this text, i.e., no to the coverage of the territories by the AOMs, support for innovation in transport and measures to promote the ecological transition – they are numerous: end of sale of thermal vehicles in 2040, sustainable mobility package, renewal of fleets, low-emission zones, etc. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. On the contrary, we would like to see the adoption of measures that will bring real change to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u35	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u36	The Republican Group will of course vote against the motion to reject, simply because important work was done at the Assises de la Mobility, now 18 months ago, and then in the Committee on Sustainable Development – although, given the number of amendments tabled in it, we all agreed that there was still room for debate, that the text had not been completely completed. However, at this stage it would be a shame to reject the text and not to continue the discussions. I am not convinced that after long hours and nights of debate, we will reach a fully satisfactory text, but we are ready to engage in discussion on many issues. This bill is very technical and has a political ambition that we may not share, but the Republicans will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u37	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u38	Mr Prud'homme, the motion for a preliminary rejection raises the question, because the objectives you have set are shared in the House: to imagine transport for all in all territories and to put a very strong emphasis on the development of sustainable transport and preserving the ecological future of our country. As has been said, work has been done in committee; We have had almost fifty-five hours of debate there, and discussions will continue in the Chamber. Adopting the motion to reject is also not to take into account the needs expressed by our fellow citizens in recent months, and even before: in rural areas, there is a transport problem; In urban areas, there is a need to combat pollution and improve transport. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] We have not quite the same reading of this text, which is the result of a very long consultation, organized according to a method chosen by the Government and welcomed by all participants. The need for transport must be urgently addressed in order to reduce the territorial and social divide. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u39	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u40	Our discussions, particularly in committee, have shown that most of us – including colleagues from La France insoumise – agree on one observation: the fracture of mobility between, on the one hand, the metropolises and, on the other, the medium-sized cities, the villages and the towns. On the other hand, Mr Prud'homme, we differ on one point: in introducing this motion, you feel that it is urgent to wait. For our part, we consider, on the contrary, that it is urgent to do so. The daily lives of our fellow citizens deserve better than formal fighting and procedural motions, which only delay our debates. The expectations of our fellow citizens are strong, the consultations have taken place, the proposals are there: more than 3000 amendments are under discussion. Then it's time: let's act! As you understand, the UDI-Agir Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u41	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u42	The orientation of this text is not good. For this reason, the GDR Group will vote in favour of the point of order, which means that we must not wait, but change direction and above all not run counter-sense. This is what you are proposing with this text: you believe that solutions to social and environmental expectations include the development of modes of transport that mainly use the road – coach, car sharing, carpooling, autonomous vehicles, etc. – in line with the new railway pact discussed here, which endangers certain lines and whose effects we are beginning to see. Despite France's commitments under the Paris Agreement, your bill does not provide for drastic measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are responsible, among other things, for global warming. However, everyone can agree that emissions of these gases are mainly due to road traffic. The drafting of this bill could have been an opportunity to plan for a major change in the transportation of goods and passengers. We're not on the date. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] We will therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u43	I have received a motion from Mrs Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialist and Related Group to refer the matter back to committee, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u44	[[Smile]] I commend the impressive number of rapporteurs who have been appointed to follow this bill and the work they have done through numerous hearings. The contributions and testimonies of the participants reminded us of the Assises de la mobilité, mentioned by many speakers, and of which everyone liked to salute otherwise the success, at least the idea of putting around several tables all the actors in the fields of mobility and transport. Nearly 550 days separate us from these seats, which is not bad. Many of us wondered when this bill was coming: if we refer to the animal breviary, 550 days, it's almost the gestation time of a whale... Yet, forgive me, but the text is not up to the expectations of some. It will also be necessary to explain to us what happened between the Assisi and today, because this text could have included far more than fifty articles – even if it is not bad already – in the light of the nature, the strength and the scale of the contributions recorded at the time. There have probably been some arbitrations, including financial arbitrations, which have a little dulled the enthusiasm of the Assises de la mobilité. Much has happened between the Assisi and today, including the publication of the conclusions of the Infrastructure Guidance Board. Let me make a few comments in this regard. First of all, with regard to the method, there has been much criticism – and I have heard such comments in the rapporteurs' mouths – of everything that had happened during the thirty, forty or even the last fifty years. In this respect, we must be serious. Moreover, the rapporteur for the text in the Senate, Didier Mandelli, rightly recalls, in his report, the history of transport programming, from the national transport infrastructure scheme to the Infrastructure Guidance Board, to the Mobility Committee 21. The method used by Philippe Duron was praised. I would like to recall that today's Philippe Duron is the same as yesterday's: he was given a tremendous job, which he carried out with great experience, conviction, and his particular commitment to consultation, involving not only all the territories but also the various actors who could propose inflections. As the Minister said, the national transport infrastructure scheme provided for a number of infrastructure projects that exceeded funding capacity. The role of the Mobility Committee 21, chaired by Philippe Duron, was to reduce the wing and to reflect on ways to better finance the projects, trying to adapt them to the territories. Madam Minister, you asked me in committee, making me practically alone responsible for the lack of funding for certain infrastructure programmed by the Mobility Committee 21. In all modesty, I would like to remind you that I did not participate in the previous government or even held important positions at headquarters. You know, as I do, that what is common to the national transport infrastructure scheme, to the mobility committee 21 and – no doubt we will see tomorrow – to the infrastructure guidance board is the frequency of arbitrations or what I call the "Bercy effect": we are happy to identify the infrastructures that we boast about being able to finance, but there are often credit assessments and the "Bercy patrol" contradicts the objectives of the plan. I would like to stress this point, because some might say that it was not right, in the end, to make high-speed TGVs and lines. However, these projects have served territories, and I know few of you who complain about having good infrastructure in their ridings, planned several years ago. However, the message that you have been carrying for several months is right: we must look at the existing one, which is what the work of the Infrastructure Guidance Council allows, but which, admittedly, also allowed the work of the Mobility Committee 21. [[Smile]] With regard to transport infrastructure, whether rail or road, one must bear in mind a truth: one does not realize an infrastructure in five years. Often, you've experienced it like others before you, we're inaugurating infrastructure decided by others before. You see, there's only the cathedrals that we build in five years! Whether it is a high-speed line or a major road infrastructure, it is clear that there are some elements of continuity in this area. However, the three scenarios presented by the Infrastructure Guidance Board give us the right subject to debate. Between the Assisi and today, there has also been, even if it is a sort of reversal of the timetable, the new railway pact, the effects of which cannot yet be measured: decisions must be taken in a few months' time, in particular on debt recovery, and changes in organisation are, as we can see, raising some problems within the SNCF itself, even though this text was intended to transpose a European directive. Earlier, Mr. Adam kindly invited us to discover Armada. I understand this: I myself am elected Norman, and I hope that we will be as many as possible to do so. I just advise you not to go there by train... I would like to take this opportunity to tell you, Madam Minister, that the SNCF has chosen the very moment of the Armada within the next fifteen days to carry out a number of work, which will, excuse me for a little bit, increase the journey time between Paris and Rouen by one hour, fifteen or one hour, thirty to two hours, fifty. Perhaps you could intervene to restore a normal duration during this event, which concerns not only the Normans but also the entire country, since it is ships. Between the Assisi and today, there was also the movement of yellow vests, referred to by some rapporteurs, which, at least in its beginnings, in November of last year, due mainly to the cost of transport, the heavy burden of daily commuting between home and work in the household budget, for those who have no choice but to use their vehicle. In addition, there is the notion of a territorial divide. While this problem was highlighted in the great national debate, it is not new: we are quite well documented on peripheral France, on the France des lisières, on all these territories which sometimes feel abandoned. However, as has been pointed out, mobility concerns both journeys between home and work and journeys to a public service, including health services. As you have rightly said, Minister, the right to mobility is essential to finding a job or, when you are young, a training or an internship. We know how penalized people with no means of locomotion are when they respond to a job offer. This is what has happened since the holding of the National Mobility Assembly. Today, Minister, you are presenting this text to us, as you have already done in the Senate. I have noted a term which may be a valid word, but which is no less important: it is the word "revolution". You said it. I do not forget that, for many of you, Revolutions is first and foremost the title of the program book of a candidate who became president – your bedside book. In any case, the word "revolution" can be understood in three different ways. I am thinking first of all of the periodic side of this term: you mentioned earlier the LOTI, a great law of the 1980s, in line with the way transport was then considered. I am one of those who think that you have been right to move from the concept of transport to that of mobility, which allows us to encompass more dimensions and themes. The second definition of "revolution" refers to rotation around an axis. In this sense, we can want the revolution while we're out there! According to a third interpretation, a revolution is a change. It is true that after having experienced the revolution of mass transport, especially with the railway, and the revolution of individual transport, with the car, which often symbolized freedom, we must now realize a third revolution that combines the two previous ones by combining the potential of the mass with the notion of individualization and by sticking to the reality of our territories. That is all at stake in this bill. I therefore come back to the text that you are defending, Madam Minister. First of all, it provides for infrastructure programming. You have identified four priorities that I believe are essential: to respond to daily displacements, to reduce the territorial divide, to engage resolutely in the ecological transition, to change the transport of goods. This last issue, which has been mentioned many times, deserves much more effective action. Among the infrastructures identified in the IOC conclusions, there are motorway routes and rail routes that do not correspond directly to daily travel. I will quote an example that I know quite well. You know that there is a new Paris-Normandie line project in my department. One of the priority axes identified is between Rouen and Yvetot: at the present stage of the project, it is planned to link these two cities, 34 kilometres away, at a cost of 900 million euros. But in doing so, the problem of daily travel is not solved. I invite you to take a look at a rather instructive map, made by the INSEE, which traces the home-work journeys, the famous pendulum movements. Halos are observed around large agglomerations, large metropolises. However, when this map of INSEE is superimposed and that resulting from the work of the IOC, it is apparent that the planned infrastructure will not be able to respond immediately to the challenges posed by this type of travel. While a number of planned investments need to be planned, some options need to be corrected to better match your priority choices. As regards infrastructure programming, it is also on the issue of financing that the project is hurting. As has been said by several actors, some of whom have participated in this work, if the choice is based on the IOC scenario 2, which seems to have the favour of the Government, it will probably lack around 500 million euros in order to achieve the stated objectives. Proposals have been made in this regard. The recovery of a fraction of the revenue from radar fines is not satisfactory: it is fragile, especially when radars suffer degradation, as it has just happened, and it is not up to the stakes. In committee, our rapporteur has also proposed that part of the "surplus" of Chirac tax revenues be allocated to the financing of new infrastructure. He hopes to earn 30 million euros. This is always better than nothing, but it would only fund one kilometre of new railway line: such a proposal is therefore not commensurate with the needs of AFITF. Nevertheless, almost EUR 14 billion of the product of the ICTPE escapes transport. Would this amount not be a manna or, in any case, an opportunity to increase the financing of AFITF?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u45	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u46	On the other hand, let me put to you an idea that echoes the political moment that we have just experienced in the European elections. There was much talk of a European climate bank, somewhat like the Juncker Plan, some of which had been used to finance a number of infrastructures, particularly in France. We could consider raising a loan in order to invest heavily to deal with the climate emergency, an issue of which rail transport is a key element. This bill is aimed at an objective that I agree with and that is in the right direction: it aims to improve the coverage of the territories that could be described as "white areas" with respect to the mobility organizing authorities. Moreover, I am one of those who believe that the transformation of the transport organising authorities into the organising authorities of mobility, from the payment of transport to the payment of mobility and of urban travel plans into mobility plans is not a ridicule, but a real change that marks a change of point of view. This position is defended by a large number of territories. Of course, it is valuable to be given the responsibility to carry this ambition of mobility, but we still have to have the means to do so. In this area, we must no doubt go even further and give those territories, which will tomorrow have a great responsibility not only for flexibility, as our rapporteur said, but also for the means to act. This important dimension must be taken into account in the text. The draft law also contains provisions on data protection, which are part of the transposition of a Community text. These issues are fully addressed. I welcome the initiatives taken by some of our colleagues with regard to noise, which is an essential aspect of the transport issue. In 2016, the National Noise Council had estimated the social cost of noise in our country at €57 billion, so these negative externalities represent a huge sum. It is in our interest to spend a little money on a better isolation of infrastructure and to support all the steps that can be taken to combat noise pollution which penalise the inhabitants living in the vicinity of this infrastructure. Some provisions concern the assistance that we can provide to employees to move around. It is not enough to extend the sustainable mobility premium: it should probably also be extended so that all our citizens can benefit from it. You probably used all the adjectives that might qualify mobility: you talked about inclusive mobility, solidarity mobility, sustainable mobility, active mobility... All the mobilitys are present in this text. However, the issue of modal reporting is very important. It is important to encourage those who now use a vehicle on an individual basis to transport others, to use public transport or to use so-called "active" mobilities. We are, of course, right to regulate the use of these means of transport, but we must not forget that modal delay is essential. In this area, we must no doubt focus on supporting the territories which already have the transport competence – I am thinking in particular of the metropolitan areas – but which, within the AFITF budget, today receive only €275 million to promote high-quality buses, public transport on a clean site and all initiatives in this direction. One of your goals is to end the sale of thermal vehicles. We wish to be even more ambitious in this regard. You want to act by 2040, but the ecological emergency that we are all convinced of is pushing us to remember the 2030 deadline. NGOs and experts from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC, are encouraging us to act by 2030 or 2035. Similarly, while the rapporteur refers to 2050 as the year for the decarbonisation of transport, I believe that 2040 is the horizon that really corresponds to the emergency situation we are experiencing today in terms of ecological transition. Madam Minister, you are probably going to ask me why I am defending a motion to refer to committee. It is not a question of rejecting this text, which is expected, as you have rightly reminded us. I will not go back to the length of the debates that have taken place in committee, nor to the number of amendments that we have examined and that we will continue to consider in the coming days. If I defend this motion for referral back to committee, it is because a document is sorely missing today. As in the old world, you called on the prefect Philizot to entrust him with a mission on the question of small lines – it was a very strong demand expressed on several benches at the time of the examination of the law for a new railway pact. Let me expand this question on the stations. Since the discussion of the law for a new railway pact and the holding of the National Mobility Assemblies, it is not a month without the announcement here of a small line closure or there a station closure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u48	Today, in order to have an informed debate, we simply wish to have this famous Philizot report in our hands. You have been asked in the Senate by many senators from different groups. For us, it is essential to have this report available, particularly to deal with the issue of daily transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u49	Let's talk about the old lines too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u50	Today, some small lines can be an alternative to the car.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u51	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u52	In so-called "peripheral" territories or on the edge of agglomeration, one can see the crucial role that a railway line could play. Today, some lines do not know the success we might hope for, perhaps because of the state of the tracks, the trains or the signs, but many of our colleagues expect, like me, that the work entrusted to the Prefect Philizot will allow us to land – forgive me for this puncture – on this issue which I believe is essential. We could thus verify that all the objectives you have set correspond to the reality of the daily lives of many territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u54	In conclusion, if this text is not to be the victim of a kind of toupie effect – a combination of revolution and outburst – it probably requires a little more ambition, especially given the climate emergency, and a little more funding. In this regard, I am not throwing the stone at you, but we are not reassured that you are inviting us to wait for the next finance bill, because we have been used – not only for three years, but for several decades – to see Bercy's arbitrations upset our objectives, our ambition, and shower our enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u55	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u56	I understand that you share the Government's view that there is an urgent need to act to improve the mobility of our citizens in order to address the social and territorial divides that are undermining our country and to embark on the ecological transition of our mobilitys. Since this is an area that you are well aware of, I have no doubt that you agree with the proposals contained in this text to simplify the exercise of mobility competence by communities of municipalities and to ensure that companies take on the issues of home-to-work travel, as our fellow citizens expect. I also have no doubt that you agree with the idea of allowing our young people to pass the driver's licence faster and at a lower cost, or that you agree with the objectives of developing active mobility, with our ambitious fleet greening objectives or with our desire to propose a high-level social framework for opening up to competition in Île-de-France and with better protection for platform workers. You are telling us that you have been supporting these matters for years and that the Mobility 21 Committee had, in its time, made proposals to that effect. While I appreciate the work of this committee, I note, however, that, at the end of the previous five-year period, the governments acknowledged that EUR 100 billion of investment was needed for the projects identified, but did not propose any funding or programming. In this respect, the approach proposed by the mobility guidance law is radically different, since we propose, on the contrary, ambitious, but realistic, objectives over a five-year period, with a funding path. No doubt we are leaving the same projects, but we do not come up with the same solutions. You recalled that this text was the subject of broad consultation and work in the Senate, which you welcomed. Perhaps you failed to point out, however, that it had given rise to more than fifty hours of debate in committee. I regret that you were unable to attend and that your group did not defend one third of the amendments tabled. Obviously, he is not very interested in this issue, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u57	Don't tell me that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u58	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We must capitalise on the important work already done in committee and on the enrichment of this text, in particular on the proposal of the rapporteurs or Members present in committee. It is now time for the debate to take place in this House. I am therefore, of course, voting against your motion to refer you back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u59	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u60	Mr President, it will not surprise you that I am sending an unfavorable opinion on this motion for referral to committee, which I do not understand well because, on many points that you have mentioned in your speech, we share the same objectives: why should this text be referred back to committee, since we are given an opportunity to discuss it, to amend it and to improve it here in the House - which I am sure you will do? In addition, voting on this motion may be an insult to all the work done on this text. As you said, in fact, at the very beginning of your speech, 550 days have passed between the Assises de la Mobility and the moment when this text finally arrives in the Chamber, after hours and hours of work: associations, local elected representatives, the Government and the Élisabeth Borne teams, commissioners, deputies and the High Assembly have worked hard. It would be insulting to all these people and at all the time they have spent on this text to send it back to committee. This text is, as you have noted, important in several respects, particularly with regard to the title for which I am responsible. This is indeed an important decentralization text for the territories. In fact, the divide that exists in our country is partly linked to the territorial divide, which will continue if we do not give the territories the means to organise daily mobility. We really need to be able to solve this problem and, if this text is not the answer to everything, it is at least one of the answers to this territorial divide and we must carry out this work. De-enclavement and white areas are issues that we need to take care of, as the text provides, which can be amended and improved – which will make our debates rich. You mentioned the high-speed lines, almost accusing us of wanting to stop them all. Perhaps, however, we should take a break in this area and take a little care of the mobility of everyday life, which our fellow citizens need. I will conclude by referring to a question on which Professor Fugit would have answered if he had been on the bench: you ask us to put an end to the use of petrol and diesel engines in 2030 rather than in 2040, but all the hearings of the people concerned, which I attended with Jean-Luc Fugit, revealed that this stoppage was difficult to achieve for 2030. Many of the previous governments can be blamed for making promises that they have never been able to keep. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I therefore express an opinion against this motion for referral to committee and I have no doubt that we will have fruitful debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u61	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u62	[[Smile]] [[Jean Marc Fugit, rapporteur, applauds]] I like Christophe Bouillon very much, I appreciate the moderation of his remarks and I share – as we can no doubt all do – some of his questions. As to whether this text should be referred back to committee, I will reply with one word: Please! After 15 days of examination in committee, I think that Christophe Bouillon – who does not listen to me – is not serious when he formulates this proposal. We'd be there until the summer! I will quickly come back to the genesis of this text and the need to give some ambition to our transport policies. I recall that under the Ayrault government, where Mr Bouillon was a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, Frédéric Cuvelier, Minister for Transport, spoke at the first meeting to tell us that we were going to see what we were going to see about transport policy in our country. Well, we saw it! All means of financing, including the heavy goods tax, have been flouted. Thank you, Ségolène Royal! No arbitration on the subject! As for the well-known Mobility 21 Committee, chaired by our colleague and friend Philippe Duron, of which, as Mrs Duron knows, I was a member, it gave a very good report, but we came back to square one: nothing for five years under the previous majority! Perhaps more could be done, we will talk about it again in the sitting, but such a direct request to the majority – before which everyone knows that I am not in the care of you – lacks a little finesse. The Liberties and Territories Group will not vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u63	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u64	As has been said, this indispensable bill comes, thirty-seven years after the LOTI, the law of orientation of inland transport, to adapt the legal framework of our mobilitys to technological imperatives, environmental challenges and social and territorial divides. As Mr Christophe Bouillon pointed out, it is the result of a long and broad consultation of more than 18 months, engaged during the launch of the Assises de la mobility and continued for many months, in a trans-partisan way, with all the actors involved in mobility. Today, Mr President, your group is proposing that we refer this major text back to committee, even though a collaborative and constructive effort has allowed us to enrich and amend it for several months, as has been the case in committee. You are asking us today to give up the debate in this House. Our group, La République en marche, will not be in favour of it, because this text meets the promise made to our fellow citizens to offer each of them an alternative solution to the individual car at any point in the territory. This law on the orientation of mobility fulfils this republican promise with the many measures it entails and it enshrines this right to a specific, sustainable, innovative and solidarity-based modality. To abandon the debate in this House today would be to deprive our fellow citizens of the right to move which we wish to devote and which must allow access to employment, training, public services and culture. We must also accompany our communities, who are looking forward to this legislation, particularly in terms of governance, so that we can end it with the mobility deserts. We are surprised that your group, supposedly so attached to solidarity, territories, freedoms and environmental issues, is refusing to debate this major text, after more than fifty hours of debate in committee where your group was, it must be said, not very present and which allowed the consideration of 3100 amendments, of which almost 600 were adopted. We therefore call for the responsibility of everyone. The social and territorial emergency is not waiting. The French look at us and want solutions to facilitate their travel, which must be more accessible, more innovative, cleaner and less expensive. Our communities are also looking forward to this text and, of course, meeting our climate commitments is not waiting. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As a matter of responsibility and without demagogy, our group is asking for consideration of this text and will vote against the motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u65	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u66	The Republican Group will support the motion for referral to committee. It is not a question of insulting all the work that has been done – the remarks made in the Chamber to Mr Christophe Bouillon are, in this respect, somewhat excessive, because he is one of our colleagues who is familiar with the transport issue – but at the end of the 18 months between the Assises de la Mobility and the discussion of the text before us, after the debates we have had in committee, where more than 3200 amendments have been discussed, we still have more than 3500 amendments to discuss in open session. This means that we will find some amendments that the Committee on Sustainable Development has already discussed, but also that others will be discussed. Thus, after the intense work carried out during the Assises de la Mobility, in which I participated actively and with great goodwill, because I found it very interesting, we were submitted, eighteen months later, a somewhat watered down law on certain subjects. Of course, Bercy has gone through this – it is well known that arbitrations are not always easy – but above all, during the discussions in committee, many topics have been referred to the debate in the Chamber, to negotiations still under way and not concluded between the social partners, or to future meetings. For all these reasons, and given the number of amendments tabled for the public sitting by the rapporteurs and the Government – 300 majority amendments on a text that has already been studied for more than fifty hours in committee! – it seems to us appropriate, for certain technical questions, to refer this text back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u67	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u68	We have all, or at least a large majority of us, made the same observation: this bill is important to our fellow citizens, to our territories and to our local elected representatives. It is true, as Christophe Bouillon has explained, that we must provide answers in order to remedy the inequalities experienced by our territories, propose alternatives to private cars in rural areas and improve transport in metropolitan areas or urban areas. This bill is therefore important to support the ecological transition that will accompany our territories, particularly for the real development of an energy mix and for multimodal mobility. It is also important because it allows local elected representatives – as I repeat – to be given to our territories – tools that will help to reduce, as we know and as has been said before, the territorial and social divide. Referring him to committee would only delay the debate on fundamental issues. But – as you said earlier, Mr Bouillon – we still have to deal with this: small lines, railway stations, security or fraud. The number of amendments tabled proves this. In my view, it is in public session that we must have this discussion. Our discussions have just begun. So we have ten days ahead of us. [[Mr. Duvergé applauds]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement considers it necessary not to vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u69	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u70	[[Rires on several benches]] Christophe Bouillon, it's like Mass: it's always the present that gets yelled. I listened with a lot of attention – as in committee, where the IUD group, Agir et indépendants was present – to our colleague Christophe Bouillon, who, although he failed to talk about river transport, said very interesting things. However, the arguments he has put forward, even though they promise very rich exchanges, complementary to those we have had in committee, do not justify referring the bill back to committee. Therefore, my group will not vote on the motion for referral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u71	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u72	France supports this motion because, as we have said and we believe, unfortunately the text is not up to the environmental, social and public health issues before us. I have heard a lot from our colleagues that there is an urgency and that the French and French were waiting for this law. Indeed, the French and French are waiting and fighting in particular for the maintenance of their stations as for that of their small lines: they are seeking a real public service and not for the complete disruption of the transports that could take place. I would like to draw your attention to a point which, Madam Minister, has not escaped you: Tesla today alerted the United States Government on the issue of electric vehicles. In her view, it is impossible to continue to rely on these vehicles as we are going to face the problem of scarce resources. So we are not up to the situation. Coming from Val-de-Marne, I have a very strong thought for the Rungis-Perpignan line, which should close on July 15, which will put 25,000 trucks back on the roads. 160,000 people already die prematurely every year as a result of pollution: so yes, we can go back to committee on this bill, because we are losing years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u73	We haven't seen you in committee, Mrs. Panot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u74	We had to get there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u75	We must rise to this ecological and social challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u76	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u77	At the end of his speech, our colleague mentioned the document which he felt was necessary to further reflect and analyse, and which we missed. First of all, he regretted that this bill was in retreat from the Assizes of Mobility, the conclusions that had been drawn from it, as well as the hopes that they had given rise to. There are also reactions to the bill, particularly in the press. These don't look like the praises you've been waiting for. Secondly, the budgetary effort that this text would call, which should be at the meeting, is not. I am thinking in particular of AFITF's recipes: I will probably have the opportunity to come back to them earlier. Contrary to what has been said in the rostrum, with 13.4 billion euros instead of the 15 billion that were programmed, we will not even be at the rendezvous of scenario 2. So we're down from the scenario set by the Infrastructure Guidance Board. That is enough for the GDR Group to want to come back to committee. The number of amendments tabled by all groups – including the majority – and by the Government shows that there is still work to be done on this bill. Making him do a little more in committee would be an appreciable proof of mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u78	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u79	Before hearing the speakers in the general discussion, I would like to inform you that, at the request of the Government, the discussion of Title I A of the bill is reserved for consideration after Title III. In the general debate, Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u80	I thank you first of all, minister, for listening to you and for the attention of your collaborators in all the work that preceded the public debate on this bill. I also stress the excellence of our relations since the Assises de la mobilité, as well as the great openness and the sense of welcoming the rapporteurs of the text. These are many, since this text also finds its originality in the number of transport specialists that the majority counts: so much the better! We have often suffered from feeling a little alone on transport issues. This will no longer be the case when we address mobility issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u81	A little irony, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u82	It is with enthusiasm, I would like to stress, that the mobility players have embarked on the long process that led to this bill. We had been waiting for a major transport law for almost ten years. I remember very well that Jean-Louis Borloo, the great minister of ecology and sustainable development, had indicated in this chamber that he wished, after the law of 12 July 2010 on national commitment to the environment – known as Grenelle II law – to see us engage in a bill defining the priorities and financing of our transport infrastructure. We have therefore waited almost ten years to engage in such a process. Everything has been said about the findings: our colleagues have indeed spoken of TGV, network maintenance, small lines, soft mobility and mobility of tomorrow. Everyone will find themselves there through a number of actions and financing linked to such strategies for tomorrow. The Assises de la mobilité, organised at the end of 2017, have borne fruit. I have been actively involved, along with many others: parliamentary colleagues, but also users, communities, operators and economic actors. A long discussion and long consultation, both unprecedented and far-reaching, took place with a view to bringing this bill to fruition. However, we warned both the Government and the Prime Minister that launching these Sittings in September and announcing a spring bill was not reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u83	You were right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u84	The Prime Minister told me that we had to be bold. If we've taken a good year late, it's better late than never. Unfortunately, this enthusiasm gave way to a legitimate disappointment, when last November, after several postponements, was presented a text emptied partly of its substance and its original ambition. Among the grievances that we could make against him – and that senators did not fail to raise – were, first and foremost, the blatant lack of resources dedicated to financing and restoring infrastructure. Other weaknesses include the lack of measures for the most rural communities to cover the white areas of mobility, and a lack of ambition in the fight against air pollution. However, the bill that your administration worked on and introduced included all of these mechanisms. Let us hope that, in the future, when we engage in a great deal of cooperation in our country, the conclusions of the latter will not be removed by a certain high official or collaborator close to the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic. Everyone really has to hear that when we engage in dialogue, we have to go to the end. Fortunately, the Senate has done a patient work of strengthening the text, and I note several advances. The first is to sanctify the resources of AFITF and to perpetuate the famous scenario 2 of the Infrastructure Guidance Board. I would remind you that scenario 2 represents, in terms of investment and maintenance of our network, a minimum without which we will do nothing. So are we going to commit, with regard to the renovation of our infrastructure, to the minimum that everyone demands in all our territories as well as in all our constituencies? The second step introduced by the Senate concerns the allocation of part of the proceeds of the domestic consumption tax on energy products to the financing of mobility services in sparsely populated territories. I could also have mentioned other measures aimed at encouraging transport in rural areas, as well as the development of low-emission vehicles. The Senate did a good job: Madam Minister, when I spoke to the Commission on Sustainable Development, I told you that the bill would be judged on the basis of your ability – or that of the Government and the majority – to retain and resume a number of provisions introduced by the Senate. While many of them have been retained, the Senate has been unclear as to the investment path. On this point, I had tabled an amendment, which comes not from me, but from the major transport organisations. He pointed out that if scenario 2 is to be respected, it must be more ambitious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u85	That's what everybody's waiting for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u86	Unfortunately, this amendment has not been accepted, so you will have to explain to us in the course of the debate what kind of investment will be delayed, because between scenario 1.5 and scenario 2 a lot of planned investments and promises made to the communities will be postponed by two, three, four or five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u88	This also means that we are going to go back to some of the programmes for the maintenance and modernisation of our transport infrastructure. You have to have all of this in mind. On the other hand, some gains appeared to be questioned. We will probably discuss this again during the debate. I am thinking in particular of the payment for transport in rural areas. If there is to be equal treatment between territories, the question of daily transport must be dealt with. Sufficient transportation is required. Otherwise, it's not worth telling communities: engage in transportation services. They won't be able to afford it. I know that on this point the companies say: "It costs us! It costs us! " But we must not exaggerate: if companies finance urban transport, they can also do so in rural areas. Number of arbitrations to be rendered in court. We will be listening to you on these issues, Madam Minister, to which we are very attentive, as these are major issues such as infrastructure financing, the mobility package, the greening of the fleets and the social responsibility of the platforms. I am insisting on the financing of infrastructure, which is not solved. I read the national and daily press in the columns from which you seemed to postpone the announcements to the next finance bill. It is true that it is within this framework that decisions will be taken. However, today you still have to explain to us what the financing of these infrastructures will be based on. I would like to speak for the various organizations that participated in the consultation, particularly those that were heard during the work of the Infrastructure Policy Council, fortunately supported by the Senate. The National Federation of Public Works, the Association for the Development of Electric Mobility and the National Federation of Transport User Associations expressed their disappointment. However, among the stakeholders involved, a consensus had emerged for ambitious financing of these infrastructures, corresponding to investments of EUR 15 billion during the quinquennium. But we are far from it. The budget programming set out in the bill does not seem to be up to the level: it foresees EUR 13.4 billion, whereas exactly 15 billion were expected. At this stage, no new revenue has been channelled to the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France. There is therefore a gap between 500 million and 1 billion euros. Finally, the bill aims to initiate the emergence of new mobility, and to take into account the digital and data revolution. Very virtuous greening targets for the fleet have been set. To reach them, we must commit ourselves to a particularly ambitious programme of very rapid deployment of electrical charging and mobility infrastructures. Madam Minister, on these matters, your announcements in committee, concerning high-level co-financing over relatively long periods, were interesting. As the time has expired, I will conclude, but we will have the opportunity to revisit a number of issues during the consideration of the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] For the time being, we are rather open to the prospect of supporting this text. We are, of course, expecting a number of clarifications from you, Madam Minister. If, in the course of the debate, you answer the legitimate questions that are not only ours, but also those of all the professionals and organizations involved, there is no reason why we should not support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u89	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u90	I would like to associate my colleague Damien Pichereau with this speech. On September 19, 2017, we laid the foundation for the text that we are debating today by launching the National Mobility Assemblies as a collective reflection involving civil society, users, businesses, the start-up ecosystem, communities, but also parliamentarians from all sides. This method of drafting the bill, based on listening, consultation, but also on a territorial approach, has enabled us to build a solid foundation together. After more than twenty months of committee hearings and field meetings, we are there! We meet again for the study of the mobility orientation bill. It's a special moment. It is particular, because more than thirty years after the law of 30 December 1982 on the orientation of inland transport, known as LOTI, we are about to set the stage for mobility for the next generations. Let us enjoy the value of our task: to engrave into a law words that last, and that will resonate in the daily lives of our fellow citizens! In 1982, Parliament introduced our transport system into the era of major road and rail networks and laid down the basic principles for the organisation of public transport services. In 2019 scooters multiply on our sidewalks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u91	It's a disaster!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u92	... free floating is developing, tickets are dematerialized, some vehicles are riding hydrogen, and carpooling is becoming a public transport solution. The mobility guidance bill is therefore not just a sectoral law, it is a generational law. However, if modes and usages change, the fundamental issue of LOTI remains: guaranteeing everyone's right to transport. It is therefore proposed that we think of a new software that can respond to the challenge of climate change, integrate the challenges of the digital revolution, and learn from the lessons of the past thirty years. This is why at the heart of this software we place the mobility of everyday life at the service of the user and of the general interest. While freedom of movement is a universal right that has no class, no territory, no political colour, the right to mobility has become a social marker, a symbol of the divide between our city centres, our peripheries and our villages. The logics of large projects, the promotion of large motorway and rail networks to the detriment of local roads and services have fueled this fracture by increasingly moving the territories away from urban centres. The events of recent months show this: it is at the heart of the white zones of mobility that anger proliferates. Therefore, mobility goes beyond spatial planning issues alone; This is a republican challenge that we must collectively address. We all know that a mobility policy is not simply about spreading tar on a territory and laying rails on it. Mobility is above all a medium of social integration and access to public services and employment. It is also, and above all, a vector of attractiveness, ecological transition and sustainable planning of our territory. That is why the Government and the majority propose to instil a new long-term vision, with the main objective of combating house arrest and car dependence. This vision is based on two bases. The first is trust in our territories. Because the regions, the communities of municipalities, and all the other communities, know better than anyone the specifics of their territories,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u94	...we are rethinking transportation governance at the level of their living areas. Our country is rich in the diversity of its territories, its inventiveness and its capacity to innovate. The France Mobilitys approach shows this. On this subject, Minister, I would like to thank you for your support at every moment, and for the mobilization of your teams. Launched over a year ago to support the territories in innovative mobility experiments, France Mobilitys has identified 420 concrete solutions, and financed 53 new mobility projects in often landlocked territories. Proof, if need be, that our territories have talent. The second pillar is the sincerity of the State's commitment through pragmatic financial programming focused on the needs of everyday life, the maintenance of existing networks, the opening up of rural areas. We want this new vision of mobility to be operational and tangible for citizens. This is why it is accompanied by concrete tools: the creation of a "sustainable mobility package" to facilitate journeys between home and work, massive support for bicycles, in particular with the bike plan that provides €350 million of investment, the deployment of low-emission areas for the health of all, or the development of new multimodal digital services to empower everyone to move. It is therefore an ambitious bill that is before us after it has been enriched by the Senate, whose balanced work we can salute, and resolutely focused on the unenclaving of territories. After more than fifty hours of examination in committee, we have further strengthened and raised this ambition. An example of this is the inclusion in the draft law of a clear roadmap for the ecological transition of mobility, allowing France to build and consolidate its ambition to make this transition at European level in order to achieve carbon neutrality in the European Union with its partners by 2050. Ladies and gentlemen, mobility is at the heart of every citizen's life. That is why the study of this bill is a special moment. We touch on the noble sense of politics, and the very nature of our mandate and our commitment based on the shared will to facilitate the lives of our fellow citizens and to bring them concrete change. The mobility guidance law offers us this opportunity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, together, we must keep an objective in line: that of serving, of serving the interest of the user by simplifying daily mobility in all territories, beyond any consideration. It is only on this condition that we will give every Frenchman the freedom to move.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u95	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u96	Eighteen months after the National Mobility Assembly, the mobility policy bill finally arrived at the National Assembly. These Assizes, which were primarily devoted to everyday transport, had brought forth many thoughts and proposals. They had also given rise to many expectations in various areas: shared, soft and inclusive mobility; connected mobility; governance; modal security and safety in transport; cleaner mobility; better shared logistics and better integrated in cities. This approach was complemented by the submission of a report from the Infrastructure Guidance Board setting out the main priorities for investment programming for the next 20 years, and specifying the resources needed to support this programme. In short, everything was ready for an ambitious and successful mobility policy, thirty-five years after the law of 30 December 1982 on inland transport guidelines. The Senate, seized of the bill before the National Assembly, was not mistaken: it wanted to make this bill an ambitious law bringing back at the beginning of the bill the financial and operational programming of the state's investments in transport for the period 2019-2037. The text adopted by the Senate, of which the Committee on Sustainable Development of the National Assembly began consideration ten days ago, has been the subject of more than fifty hours of debate and nearly 3,000 amendments, thus demonstrating the importance of the subject and the quality of our debates – I would like to take this opportunity to thank Barbara Pompili, the chairman of the committee. These figures also show that we are dealing with a partially completed text, as many subjects have been referred to the debate in public, despite your presence in committee, Madam Minister, and the number of amendments tabled by our colleagues in the majority suggested that the text did not satisfy them. So the examination at the sitting which we are starting today gives rise to many debates with the consideration of 3400 amendments during discussions organised, in accordance with the scheduled time rule, over fifty hours. Because my speaking time is limited, I will give priority to the issues of concern or disagreement that remain in this rather technical text, whose political ambition remains below our priorities. Indeed, political ambition requires a budgetary ambition to help our citizens and businesses finance their own ecological transition. The outcome of the European elections has just reminded us. This ambition is also needed to help communities finance new mobility in all territories, even the most landlocked. It is also necessary for the State itself to invest in the regeneration, modernisation and renewal of transport infrastructure, and to respond, as a matter of priority, to the mobility needs of everyday life, ensuring a balanced planning of the territory. The debate on the maintenance of small lines is a good example of this. But the account is not there. This budgetary ambition is not on the table. The bill does not give AFITF, the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, sufficient resources to meet the priorities set by the President of the Republic himself. The Infrastructure Guidance Board observes this itself. It's a height! In fact, AFITF, which, we note, serves only as mailboxes to finance the transport policies developed by the director of the Ministry of Transport, costs, in operating costs, nearly 700000 euros per year...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u97	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u98	But paradoxically, for the period 2019-2023, it is missing 1.3 billion euros. Madam Minister, if you do not seek to create new taxes on households or businesses, or to collect surplus revenues initially destined for something else, you have a simple and effective solution to meet the mobility needs of French people: the ICTPE – the domestic consumption tax on energy products. This tax, paid by the vast majority of taxpayers, is expected to raise nearly 37 billion euros in 2019, of which only 1.2 billion are allocated to AFITF, with the state using ever more generously to fill a growing deficit. You therefore have enough money to finance the transport policies expected in our territories. Facilitating mobility for all and in all territories also requires better organized governance, respectful of the skills of each community and more ambitious, including the ability of regions to take up mobility issues if communities in the neighbourhood cannot do so. In this area, the text represents, I believe, a real step forward, but it should not restrict decentralisation: let us guard against a competent local authority from taking over mobility when, in agreement with the region, it feels ready to organise it in its territory, or from increasing the constraints of the same organizing authorities by imposing rules on them which are rather a matter of urban planning, and in doing so to discourage them before they have proposed offers. Facilitating mobility for all is also about dealing with the particular issue of transport in Île-de-France. Many questions remain outstanding, whether they concern the status of employees in the event of opening up to competition, carpooling, compensation of users in the event of disturbance for work or the period of notice of strike. Facilitating mobility for all is still offering more means of transport to our citizens. So let's not divert the mobility payment from its initial use by allowing for free networks, and let's not make the sustainable mobility package mandatory for employers, who make a major contribution to the financing of transport. In addition to these issues of funding and governance, which are essential for the implementation of mobility for all, the bill addresses a multitude of other issues, which were not answered through committee discussions: they were referred to the sessional review, negotiations or subsequent working meetings. That is the case for safety in transport: on this subject, as you know, Madam Minister, the debate remains whole. To require a public service undertaking to reclassify, to any position, an employee whom the State considers dangerous seems difficult to reconcile with the obligation to ensure the safety of persons and property. The same applies to the refusal to extend the list of sensitive functions, for which an employee may be subject to an administrative investigation in order to verify the compatibility of his profile with the security of persons and property, such as the officers responsible for the maintenance and control of rolling stock, in order to refuse to oblige a person who has committed a behavioural offence to justify his identity – in plain terms, an individual who smokes in a wagon or sounds an alarm without serious reason will not have to justify his identity – or to refuse to punish an individual who has no transport document or identity document. These subjects, serious, deserve special attention on your part, in the interests of our fellow citizens and of the companies that carry millions of passengers every day, who must be able to move safely. To facilitate mobility for all, it is also to strive not to increase the constraints for transport operators – the obligation to take a bike on buses or the presence of a GPS in all of them, for example – to set a realistic path for the exit of diesel and to facilitate access to the profession. It is difficult, minister, to address all the issues covered by the bill in just ten minutes. However, I want to mention one last one: the 80 km/hour limitation on secondary roads since July 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u99	That's a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u100	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u101	In committee, our colleagues in the majority have given the chairmen of departmental councils the opportunity to increase the maximum speed allowed on certain sections, excluding from the scheme national roads managed by the state. This decision is neither consistent nor serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u102	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u103	She's not reasonable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u104	There are two things: either we go back to the drafting of the Senate, or the Government stays on its position and assumes its original decision. In fact, it is not this kind of decision that the associations of fatal accident victims expect. Also, Madam Minister, in section 31, I will propose measures to empower motorists: making the use of mobile phones, or taking Level 3 drugs – as in the case of the dramatic Millas accident, which took the lives of several college students – an aggravating circumstance in the event of a fatal accident. I even invite you to make your own amendments and to invite the majority to support them, in the interests of the families of victims. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Long debates are expected, as this bill is the subject of more than 3400 amendments. Will an ambitious and successful law emerge? We all hope so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u105	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u106	I'll start with a little historical reminder. It is to the Romans, tireless builders, that we owe the origin of the word "road", which refers to the construction of a road that made it necessary to "break" obstacles. Over the centuries, we have never ceased to draw roads. Earth, sea or air, they guided us to ever more distant horizons, taking us through the many obstacles that stood before us. Nevertheless, some of them persist and others appear, raising new challenges. It has been recalled that more than thirty-five years separate us from the LOTI, the last major transport law. The time had therefore come to propose a new text that would meet the needs of our fellow citizens and prepare for the future. We must support the development of shared mobility and the digital transformation under way. How? By guaranteeing the best tools to increase transport offers throughout the country and making our travel more sustainable, connected and autonomous. No more space should be given up. We must collectively remove the remaining obstacles and correct the inequalities that have deepened over the years, results of insufficient investment in our daily transport. A figure symbolizes this fact: 73% of French people do not currently have access to a public transport network. There are therefore many challenges. For many, the first of these is house arrest, a feeling that may have different sources: an insufficient, if not non-existent, mobility offer, a disability or limited financial means, which do not allow for proper movement. It is not a question of opposing cities to the countryside, but when some of our fellow citizens expect better transport, others are simply waiting for an alternative to the individual car. The whole issue of the mobility guidance law is therefore to provide the favourable conditions that will enable each of our citizens to offer a relevant mobility solution at the right price. We welcome the willingness to cover 100 per cent of the territory by a mobility organizing authority, with a view to combating the sense of abandonment felt by part of the population, especially in sparsely populated areas. In order to overcome the territorial and social divides that have deepened, we will have to involve investment in this reform at the height of the stakes, otherwise we will not be able to do so. The other fundamental issue, along with the development of new mobility solutions, is the opening of mobility data, in order to offer a more integrated ticketing and to develop multimodality. In this area, innovations are emerging every day. We must encourage them and accompany them so that tomorrow, at any point in the territory, one or even several mobility solutions can be proposed, which can be combined to make your journey. These solutions must also take into account persons with disabilities and reduced mobility, so as to ensure, finally, greater equality of access to transport. Let us give ourselves the means to develop genuine inclusive and inclusive mobility. Beyond what is provided for in this bill – preferential rates or the opening of accessibility data – we need to move faster to make our transportation more accessible, including our stations. In Melun, the prefecture of my constituency, as elsewhere, many elected officials and associations are fighting on a daily basis to improve the accessibility of infrastructure. The feeling of house arrest may also result from the cost of transportation, which weighs heavily in the budgets of the most fragile households and, often, the most remote areas of employment and services. For example, the transportation budget of a person living in rural areas is 20% higher than that of a person living in a city. We need to reduce these disparities, which further increase inequalities. In this respect, the sustainable mobility package is one of the answers provided by the text. It will allow employers to cover all or part of the costs incurred by their employees, which constitutes additional support. In addition, it will promote virtuous travel, including the promotion of carpooling. The use of alternative energies that are more sustainable and cheaper than gasoline or diesel is another answer. This brings us to the second issue, the ecological footprint of our travels. In France, more than one third of CO emissions and one fifth of fine particulate emissions come from transport. Beyond their impact on the climate, these emissions have a direct effect on air quality on a daily basis. We must limit air pollution, and we must fight noise pollution, which is the source of many diseases in the people who suffer them every day. We welcome the vote in committee on an amendment by the MODEM Group to make it mandatory to take account of noise pollution in any infrastructure project. We will be defending additional amendments in this regard at the sitting. We must support our fellow citizens and help them adopt more sustainable transport habits. To green our travels, several provisions go in the right direction: the sustainable mobility package, to which I referred, the promotion of active mobility, the meshing of the territory into charging and refuelling stations with alternative energy sources or the creation of low-emission zones. If many measures are positive, we can go further on some aspects. Therefore, the MODEM and related groups will defend amendments that would be useful in complementing the bill. On the promotion of alternative energies and fuels, I leave it to my colleague Bruno Duvergé to develop our vision. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] Given the legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens throughout the country and the environmental requirements that we can no longer delegate to future generations, the stakes are numerous. To respond, this bill has one ambition: to resolutely commit our country to the mobility of the 21st century. Let's be together on the date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u107	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u108	First of all, I would like to point out that the drafting of this intervention was not delegated to a law firm. That on your part, Madam Minister, you have resorted to it is not done to reassure us of your intentions; It is even an eloquent symbol, the symbol of a certain cult of subcontracting public responsibilities. However, we are facing major challenges, such as the right to transport, our movements, the energy they consume and the emissions they produce. You speak of "mobility" to describe a reality that, perhaps, you think you are inventing, and which one wonders if, through this over-featured language learned in marketing schools, it does not reveal the requirement of adaptability of people who are under the empire of liberalism. I quote you – or the defence lawyer: "An evolution is thus necessary to add to this building State, to this organizing State, a regulatory State, a State that allows, protects and prepares for the future, a State that liberates the initiative of companies, that allows them to innovate technologically and that helps them to deploy these innovations: carpooling, information and multimodal ticketing, self-service or autonomous vehicles..." The initiative of companies financed by public funds: we find, again and again, this obsessive compulsive disorder to rely on the clairvoyance and the questionable virtue of the market, thereby diluting public responsibility in the confusion of the actors. As a regulatory state, there is a major risk of having a croupier state and, finally, a croupion state, which is only good at making tenders and calls for expressions of interest. Promulgated in the summer of 2010, the Environmental Grenelle Enforcement Act has since been trampled on. In particular, it set the objective of increasing the modal share of non-road and non-air transport from 14% to 25% by 2022. Almost ten years after the target was set, the share of rail in freight transport, which was still 29.2 per cent in 1985, was painfully 10 per cent. On the other hand, the modal share of road transport reached 88%, compared with 82.6 % in 2008. Far from the objectives set, these are therefore significant setbacks. In view of this, a genuine electroshock is necessary: the State must take stock of this heavy trend, assume its responsibilities and organise modal rebalancing in the transport of goods for the benefit of the least polluting and least emitting modes of transport of greenhouse gases. But we do not really see such an ambition emerge, even in words. With its new railway pact, the Government had instead extended the deadly logic of free and undistorted competition to rail passenger transport, which had resulted in the foreseeable reduction of capacity and supply in many territories, without any tariff efforts that could have facilitated the development of the use of this mode of transport. One cannot complain about greenhouse gas emissions and health problems related to particulate matter emissions while refusing to take on the role of the public authorities in this regard. On the one hand, there are the words; on the other, the acts. The breakdown of public rail freight tools, the liberalization of passenger bus routes and the reduction of public investment in infrastructure were seen. Why, therefore, step up the state's disengagement from rail links for passengers? Why don't you have intervention and control tools like ADP? Why do we practice ruinous privatization policies like we did for highways? Why glorify low cost models that destroy jobs and service rendered? Why open the door to European policies for the deregulation of the transport market? In essence, it is because of these choices that transport policy has for years turned to the litany of unfulfilled promises, to the list of missed appointments for the daily as for the planet. But appointments are not missed for all... so is the privatization of the world. In selected terms, you refer to the transformation of economic models in the world of transport, which, you say, erases the boundary between individual approach and collective response. Digital is capable of improving our lives; it also fosters cooperative and collaborative models; But, for your part, you allow a confusion to flourish that whitens the uberization of its evils. For this name – uberization – is indeed that of a new social regression and of the arbitrary enjoyment of public space by platforms. Who can guarantee that appropriate responses will emerge to the enormous challenges that should be facing us? On the other hand, what Bernard Birsinger called the "right to the city" must be affirmed – a right faced by forced metropolization has shown its inadequacies; We, in the Bouches-du-Rhône, know something about it. In reading the explanatory memorandum, the Government's ambition was lower than that expressed in the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, which had already been timid. It is pure rhetoric that to sweep away the need for an investment effort to display the priority given to the interview: the two should not oppose. This impasse will have a high ecological cost. Apart from the resorption of railway nodes in some metropolises, the continuation of the regeneration efforts concentrated on the so-called structuring network and the realization of some major projects already launched, the rail is particularly put on the diet. The needs, however, are immense. In my territory, around the port of Fos and Marseilles, the transport of goods by iron would require considerable effort, while the transport of passengers is an incredible delay, in which the State has a large share. The Government highlights the 40 per cent increase in investment between the previous quinquennium and the current quinquennium, forgetting to say that it occurs after a period characterized by a significant drop in investment, as a result, in particular, of the abolition of the eco-tax. In addition, during the work of the Infrastructure Orientation Council, all the actors concerned had reached a consensus on ambitious financing of transport infrastructure: EUR 15 billion during the quinquennium, with the aim of reaching EUR 22 billion to meet all the needs identified in the territories. But you are still and still below those numbers. It is also to be feared that your choices will exacerbate territorial imbalances, unequal access to transport, social and environmental dumping. The Economic, Social and Environmental Council does not say anything else. What do you say to him when he advocates "to define common social standards throughout the sector [...], by organising a national consultation with the social partners" and "recommends to the legislator to ensure that every worker in the mobility sector is provided with high-quality social protection"? What do you say to him when he "recommends [...] to take into account, in assessing the environmental effectiveness of each mode, all the externalities of transport in order to encourage modal reporting on those more virtuous"? What do you say to him when he suggests "opening up the reflection on the current contribution of road freight"? Article 1 of the draft law transforms the right to transport, enshrined in Charles Fiterman's Inland Transport Policy Act (LOTI), into the right to mobility, according to an approach that no longer considers access to public transport as fundamental issues or concerns relating to spatial planning. Far from being anecdotal, this semantic change, which is intended to reveal a paradigm shift, aims to accompany professional mobility – i.e. a precarisation of employees and an increased power of private actors. The transport sector is no longer envisaged only from the point of view of the "mobility market". It is therefore a question of considering things at the prism of the individual and of individualizing responsibility, as we have seen on many other subjects. It is doubtful that this approach will lead to the necessary revolution – and to the social and territorial justice that you have invoked earlier, Madam Minister, a big highlighter by hand – as long as the state manages to defeat itself even more. However, we should be able to propose solutions adapted to the challenges, coherent in terms of development and networks, and innovative in terms of tariffs, thanks to free-of-charge dynamics, whose success has been measured in several territories, including Aubagne, in the Bouches-du-Rhône. But how is this possible if we turn our backs on the development of public transport, as you do by opening up the francilian network to competition? modal reporting is a central issue that you refuse to face when the transport sector is the main emitter of greenhouse gases, 95% of which is due to the road. At the beginning of the century, the share of employees whose daily journeys from home to work lasted more than an hour and a half had increased from 12 to 16 per cent in 12 years, while two thirds of employees worked outside their municipality of residence and half of them had to carry out a daily shuttle service of more than 15 kilometres. If mobility is better ensured in urban areas – although this is not always true, I know something about it because of the metropolis where I am elected – it remains a victim of road congestion and contributes significantly to air pollution, which regularly leads France to breach the permitted limits of emissions of air pollutants within agglomerations. Air pollution, due to three quarters of transport, represents a real health scourge – 42000 to 45,000 people die prematurely due to fine particles – and results in spending in billions, billions that we could invest in the transport revolution. This is a problem that people around the Gulf of Fos are familiar with, and it is a major issue. There is an urgent need to act! We will defend amendments to put transport in a public, collective and ecological perspective. You act as if emerging mobility solutions and the start-up model could replace public services and public policy. For our part, we propose to entrust the modal shift to land public transport and active mobility to the mobility organising authorities, to develop the total or partial free urban transport, starting with school transport, to make compulsory the payment by employers of the sustainable mobility package and the total cost of urban public transport for the people at the SMIC. A large majority today agree to recognize the environmental emergency. If it can call for a debate on solutions, on transitions, on the necessary changes, we must take concrete steps without delay, which will make us collectively masters of the stakes. For it is the feeling of having no take, the spectacle of a renunciation of action that is unbearable. But your speech on mobility cannot remedy this – especially if mobility is more than desired and becomes the place for new social inequalities. Together with others, sociologist Christophe Mincke raises these questions: is ultramobility not too often an injunction to modernity? Does it not become an end in itself, in a world where the norm would be the perpetual movement? Is she still a freedom? Is it not, on the contrary, transformed into an unbearable servitude on the individual level as a collective? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Your policy ignores these necessary questions. Your mobility is like a flight and indeed falls under the crime of flight: flight from the responsibility of the public authorities, from the climate emergency, from the need to rethink our relationship to mobility and our ways of life in order to adapt them not to the needs of capital but to the aspirations, emancipation, and care of the planet. You will understand, we will not follow you in this run.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u109	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u110	This bill, as has been said, is long overdue, thirty-seven years after the Inland Transportation Organization Act (LOTI) of 1982. It has been the subject of extensive consultation at the National Mobility Assemblies. Let us hope that this preparatory work and the project on which it resulted will ultimately meet the expectations of our fellow citizens. Indeed, mobility is absolutely essential at all stages of life. The chairman of the committee recalled that it is necessary for all citizens, regardless of their status, age, place of residence, whether they are active or retired, job seekers or students. Whether you live in a city or in the countryside, in a metropolis or in an isolated municipality, you always need to travel to study, to work, to care for yourself, to lead a successful social or cultural life. Even new forms of work – teleworking, coworking – will not eliminate mobility; They will simply make it evolve. The mobility over a short distance and the logistics of the last kilometres, often driven by car, are therefore essential issues. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] The main objective of this text is the disappearance of the "white areas" of mobility. But when we talk about white areas, I can't help thinking about mobile phone... I hope that we will be more efficient in terms of mobility than in terms of mobile phones – and the internet, although to a lesser extent, the departments having seized the case: the reserves of Indians deprived of access to mobile phones that I have denounced for fifteen years in this House are still as numerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u111	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u112	If the changes proposed by the text in the area of skills go in the right direction, this objective will mean that the territories will be allowed to experiment, innovate and find solutions adapted to each basin of life. As you said, Madam Minister, let us trust the local elected representatives. The text contains a varied set of good technical measures, in particular aimed at solving problems of urban mobility, but, as regards rural areas, it does not propose any real change in order to remedy the dependence on the car. This is not a blind criticism on my part: the solutions are not obvious; Moreover, when you settle in the countryside, you know that the metro, the bus or the TGV line are not within reach, and it is too easy to deplore one day the tranquillity and distance you were looking for the day before! The text has the merit of addressing issues that are inseparable from each other, such as environmental emergency and infrastructure, although on these points the Government's project remains unclear as to the revenue – including how to obtain it – that will enable investment projects to be carried out. The draft contains government proposals that are undeniably in the right direction, as demonstrated by the high expectations they were facing. For example, with regard to station-free full-service systems, known as free floating, there was an urgent need to regulate a sector that developed in a totally spontaneous and uncontrolled manner. It's plugged in, simple to use, green and it gives sensations, but – if you allow me the expression – what a mess! In the face of the explosion of these personal displacement devices, it is urgent to put order and create specific traffic rules, as anarchy begins to reign on sidewalks and traffic lanes. The same applies to those of these new greying machines that are in motion, as well as to those, at a standstill, who litter sidewalks, sometimes by hundreds, between two uses, such as abandoned waste. Details on the insurance scheme for these vehicles and their drivers are still to be provided. I imagine we will have a long discussion on this. As far as cycling is concerned, it is the first time, it seems to me, that a government has insisted so much on the return of its practice to our cities and peri-urban territories. It is a way of moving full of virtues: economical, clean and excellent for health. The countries of the North can inspire us to a great extent in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u113	You have to create bike paths!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u114	This text also provides an opportunity to endorse a strategy and programming of State investments in transport systems for the period 2019-2037. This is rare enough to be stressed. Let us beware that this programming and the commitments made will be fulfilled. [[Smile]] Among the major structuring projects for our country, and you would be angry not to mention it, there is the Seine-Nord Europe Canal and Article 36 regionalizing the Canal project company. Large European political project with indisputable infrastructural, economic and environmental virtues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u115	But not undisputed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u116	...50 % financed by the European Union, it remains to be clarified how the French State is financing this Seine-Escaut link. The time for debate is over and, in the Hauts-de-Frances, we are waiting for the excavators with an impatience that is beginning to reach its limits. A few days after elections in which the populists of all hairs have tapped Europe with short arms by making it the scapegoat of all national problems, let us hurry to show our fellow citizens that Europe knows how to build, knows how to deliver on its commitments and knows how to make our people dream again. The thousands of direct and indirect jobs created by this multi-annual project, in a disadvantaged region, meet all the expectations of the modern world: infrastructure links between the peoples of Europe, low-polluting mass transport and work, yes: work for our young people. I did not understand, Madam Minister, that you did not decide to take over this project during the European election campaign. [[Smile]] In fact, you had the opportunity to mobilize, to show concrete and, as I told you, to dream again with this magnificent project, which a few days ago was called "pharaonic" by François de Rugy. Madam Minister, take this issue, do not let yourself be influenced by a few "techns" who have not understood anything or rather who do not want to understand anything, be the minister of the Seine-Nord Europe Canal and give hope to our people in the North who shouted their despair eight days ago. I leave my 4400-ton barge, the equivalent of 220 trucks, which will sail on the canal tomorrow to return to the original bill. We share, and how else, your goal of decarbonizing land transport by 2050. To do this, you propose to ban the sale of new thermal vehicles by 2040. It remains to be specified how the procedure is to be carried out. Are we going to ban French citizens from returning to the national territory with new thermal vehicles that they have bought abroad? Are we going to ban foreign visitors from coming aboard their thermal vehicle? We see this, both in this and in other areas: European harmonisation is essential in terms of the environment and the economy, both of which are by nature closely linked. Let me focus on a few specific points. I will start by limiting the speed to 80 kilometres per hour on secondary roads. The Senate has passed a new rule that allows prefects and departmental presidents to raise this speed limitation on the roads under their control. In committee, the majority restricted this possibility to the presidents of the departments alone. Admit that it would have been better to think about it well ahead of this unilateral decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u117	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u118	I wonder about the multiplicity, so the readability of future road traffic rules, which will differ from one department to another – sometimes on the same departmental road.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u119	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u120	In the current drafting of the text, a departmental road could therefore have a maximum speed higher than that of a national road, which seems somewhat absurd, you will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u121	Inconsequential!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u122	We respect the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u123	We rely on the wisdom of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u124	Another point that I care about is that I regret that there is a great lack of biofuel in this bill. The E85 is now the cheapest at the pump, around 60 cents per litre, about one euro less than the other fuels, which can represent 50 euros savings for a full one depending on the vehicles. This fuel has a good carbon balance and makes it possible to reduce carbon dioxide emissions very significantly. In addition, this energy is a significant outlet for French agriculture, particularly for sugar and starch sectors facing major economic challenges due to the end of sugar quotas. It is enough to follow the painful episode of Südzucker and its industrial sites in Eppeville, in the Somme, and Cagny to understand the situation well. Several regions of France have decided to support the conversion of petrol vehicles to bioethanol E85 by installing approved cases, saving our citizens the purchase of a new car. Your colleague minister of ecological and solidarity transition, François de Rugy, summarized very well this time...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u125	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u126	... the interest of ethanol by declaring in a public session on 21 November: "The carbon balance of ethanol, that is, CO emissions over its entire production cycle, is obviously much lower than that of petroleum gasoline. This sector therefore deserves to be supported. Today, it is competitive. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u127	This sector is already supported!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u128	I fully agree with your colleague's analysis, even if, as a former mayor of Bordeaux said... Michel de Montaigne: "It's a beautiful harmony when saying it and doing it go together. But harmony is lacking here. French car manufacturers do not offer any Flex fuel models, forcing individuals to buy the famous conversion box in order to enjoy this alternative fuel or to buy a foreign car. However, I am pleased that the text gives us the opportunity to launch the development of biofuels in air transport. I come to the end of the noise nuisance or, more generally, the noise, the real scourge of public health, which we have mentioned little in committee. Of course, the text refers to this, but we propose that you go further, in particular by strengthening sanctions. In fact, mayors and all those responsible for maintaining calm and serenity are very often deprived of the means to combat the nuisances caused by certain motor vehicles and to stop unbearable behaviour for the population. I'm thinking of the fake boosters, sore. I'm thinking of those motorists who think they're in a nightclub in their car and share their strong taste for techno in the whole neighborhood no matter what the time of day and night.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u129	When it's not rap!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u130	We smile at it, but it is a real scourge, a disrespect for the other, which causes incomprehension, resentment and sometimes violent reptilian reactions. This problem of "living together" really needs to be addressed urgently. It's time for me to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u132	The bill is useful, minister. He sets a course and tries to respond to concrete situations by proposing solutions. The attitude of the Members of the IDU, Act and Independent Group, as it was in committee, will be constructive and we really want to help improve the text at the sitting. We are therefore approaching this bill, which is so important to our fellow citizens, without a priori, and we hope that our debates will be able to enrich it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u134	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u135	I planned to bring you a shrimp but, fearing a fine, out of cowardice, I gave it up and left it in my bag. I would like to tell you a story about shrimp. That of a shrimp caught in the North Sea, probably around Oslo, which crosses twelve borders – Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Spain... – and which, through the Strait of Gibraltar, arrives in Tangier, a route of 3700 kilometres. Shrimp is found there to be at a lower cost by women who are nicknamed "shrimp women" not because they do not receive a minimum wage or because their working hours are not limited, but because of the smell attached to them because of their activity and because they are ostracized. Then, the shrimps are returned to Belgium, after a new journey of 2300 kilometers this time, in the vicinity of Bruges, to be packed and packed there. They will therefore have travelled the distance of 6000 kilometres in total. I could tell a similar story with a yogurt and maybe soon the apricots will come round, the question of the train between Rungis and Perpignan being far from settled. Even the road hauliers consider this to be an absurd situation. I was recently on Passy's area, between Chamonix and Italy. Jean-Claude, who was enjoying his game with his friends, then said to me: "Every Wednesday, I pass beasts. I'm taking them from the Netherlands to Italy. Pigs were born in the Netherlands but, prepared in Italy, they could benefit from the name "Parma ham", the slices thus labelled being able to return to northern Europe. I expected another bell sound from the roadmen; I expected them to defend their jobs; But even they find it absurd. "We're loading rolls of paper," they said, "same weight, on the way back and forth, between France and Italy, we don't understand! And the same applies to the transport of wood. The consequences are obvious for Fernand, who lives just a few steps away in Chamonix. He sees, from his garden, he who has been a high mountain guide, who has climbed all the peaks, the trees change – the spruces dry up –, the Sea of Ice retreat thirty to forty meters a year, lakes form where there was only ice... Fernand's feelings can be translated into statistics: according to the White Paper on the future of Europe, it was imperative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 60% compared to 1990 in the transport sector, instead of increasing by 35%. Similarly, we are encouraged to halve greenhouse gas emissions over the next 20 years, while road traffic is forecast to increase by 45%. We can certainly hope for a decarbonized transport by then, but it is unlikely that this will compensate for the increase in greenhouse gases. Now, what is in the text about what seems to me to be the big piece, namely the traffic of goods? Nothing. On scooters, on electric terminals, on competition between auto-schools, yes, but on the transport of goods, nothing, as if it were a taboo, a ban, an unthinkable, a blind spot... Why? Because it is the keystone of your free trade: goods must move quickly and at a lower cost. This reminds me of a plaque I had found on the premises of the European Commission, which invited citizens to use low-energy light bulbs, to check the pressure of their car's tires, to close the tap when they brush their teeth, to prefer walking or cycling – but which did not contain a single word on the transport of goods. This is the logic that has dominated the European Union for fifty years: moving faster and cheaper. "Rather": it is a matter of removing borders, trade, customs, monetary and physical barriers with the construction of thousands of kilometres of motorway, with the construction of tunnels – under the Mont Blanc, under the English Channel... – so as to shorten distances and shorten transport times. "Less expensive" thanks to zero-rated diesel fuel, thanks to the fact that the trucks do not pay for the road they destroy – they destroy at least 10000 times the roadway than the individual cars or they do not pay 10000 times more – thanks to the authorisation given to 44 tons heavy goods vehicles instead of 38 tons, thanks to the relocation of international transport to Romania and Poland, Romanian and Polish carriers eating their bowl in their cabins rather than going to eat in the road restaurants, and working for a maximum wage of 700 to 1000 euros per month, thanks to the change to 56 hours of work per week, last but not least, thanks to the fact that pollution is free for large transport companies. This has helped to break the rail freight, which has been divided by three in thirty years. In addition, in absolute terms, it has been divided by two since the opening to competition in the early 2000s. What's at stake? Why should we not increase the traffic of goods? Because, as I said, it is the keystone of globalization, because that is what allows multinationals to achieve economies of scale on the continent. Why, for example, Whirlpool – I'll take care of the WN file again tomorrow, as Whirlpool's owner – has relocated the production of its washing machines to Slovakia, its dryers to Poland, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u136	Yes! We know that in the Ardennes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u137	...even if consumer markets remain in northern Europe? Because transport time between Poland or Slovakia and northern Europe costs very little, so that the company achieves economies of scale. Thus, in 1989 there were 38 Whirlpool-Philips plants in the small Europe of Twelve; There are only eight remaining in the very big Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u138	That's right! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u139	If we were to draft a mobility policy, we would be guided by the opposite principle: slower and more expensive for freight transport. We would tax diesel, put an end to social dumping, raise the cost of tolls – as Switzerland, which is neither a Marxist country nor an authoritarian country, has done – we would raise the cost of pollution on transport companies. What would be the objectives of this slogan: "Slower speed and more expensive for the transport of goods"? It would be the elimination of unnecessary transport – and there are many – the shift towards rail freight, rather than its breakage, and relocations. Relocations can occur if the cost of road transport in Europe and sea transport in the world is increased. It would be the best weapon against relocations. If you want to return the dryer or washing machine to Amiens, you have to increase the cost of transportation, in order to prevent such a distance from the places of production and the places of consumption. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I read this morning a quote from a speech by Mark Zuckerberg, the boss of Facebook: "This is the struggle of our time. The forces of freedom, openness and the world community [...] Forces for the flow of knowledge, trade [...] against those who would slow them down. Indeed, this is at stake in our fight: to slow them down. Slowing capital flows; slowing down the flow of goods; slow down, slow down, slow down, when all the Mark Zuckerbergs in the world and their political allies are just accelerating – speeding up the workers we throw away, speeding up the planet we burn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u140	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u141	Mobility is everyone's business: it is tangible and indisputable. Every day millions of people move, for multiple reasons. In order to make all territories accessible, and at the same time to facilitate accessibility within these territories, in order also to satisfy as many needs as possible, the solutions must be varied and organized in a differentiated way, to the closest to our citizens. In order to meet this requirement, the transfer of mobility competence to the communities of communes has been enshrined in the law, so that all the territories are covered by a mobility organizing authority. Bringing governance closer to needs would promote the development of carpooling and transportation on demand. This is one of the most effective solutions to be applied in rural areas. While this has not been done for decades, this bill provides for a significant reduction in the programming of major structural projects, in favour of a refocusing on daily mobility, through the renovation of rail, road and river networks, and the development of projects aimed at opening up medium-sized cities and rural areas. In order to preserve the territorial utility lines, the law will allow the regions to manage these lines by using private operators; and to relaunch night trains, the text plans to launch a study on the improvement of these trains and to initiate a reflection in order to ensure a coherent European network. Whereas this had never been done, the text provides for the financing of these structural projects as part of a 10-year plan; In addition, resources will be partially sanctified by the full allocation of the increase in the domestic consumption tax on energy products. The massive participation in the Assizes of Mobility, the challenges of recent months and the great national debate have shown that the issue of mobility is a major concern for our citizens and that, unfortunately, their expectations are far from being met. For many years, the hegemony of the car has settled in our country, almost out of obligation, lack of infrastructure or organization that meets the daily needs of mobility. This model must evolve, and allow for alternative solutions, not only for economic but also for environmental reasons. These solutions exist, but those who might apply them do not necessarily see them – I am thinking in particular of elected local authorities and employers. It is also through innovation that we will find solutions. That is why, in addition to this draft law on the orientation of mobility, the France Mobilitys platform was created, on your initiative, Madam Minister, in order to accompany the actors concerned to find together innovative solutions for all types of territory. The stakes are important and many, as expectations are high. For the moment, most of these requests remain unsatisfactory for a majority of our citizens. It is sufficient to refer to the 2600 contributions and the 500 workshops organized within the framework of the Assises de la Mobility to see that there is an urgent need for effective and concrete responses. This is precisely what this text will give our fellow citizens: a differentiated organisation for each territory, because, in a mountain territory – for example, the Hautes-Alpes department, of which I am the elected one – the mobility problems are not the same as the transport problems for the Francilians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u142	No? Scoop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u143	The draft law provides for the support of local and regional authorities to ensure that the poorest citizens and persons with reduced mobility have access to mobility and that budgetary constraints are no longer a barrier. The text also provides for the development of alternative mobility, by securing the practice of cycling, ensuring the continuity of travel – with, inter alia, the obligation to provide for eight places for bicycles not disassembled on trains –, by promoting the development of more environmentally friendly means of transport, by increasing the number of electric charging points and natural gas stations, by establishing social dialogue within the company, thanks to the sustainable mobility package, which aims to bring about changes in behaviour, by introducing measures that will reduce the cost of driving licences and by reinvigorating freight, since mobility also concerns the transport of goods. However, a law that will be passed in 2019 cannot be worthy of the twenty-first century if the new technologies applied to the means of travel, especially urban ones, and the use of digital technology are not dealt with. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, we thank you for taking into account the diversity of the territories and for providing solutions that will help reduce the territorial divide in mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u144	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u145	Mobility is life. No great civilization has been built outside the lines of communication. Through the sea, rivers or land, it has always been necessary to travel to trade and trade to develop. In digital times, while orders have become dematerialized, deliveries remain physical and even multiply. Several products are now being tested to keep only one product. The rest goes back to the supplier, which is very expensive in CO. Our mobility must therefore adapt. That is the objective of this text. The mobility guidance bill finally comes into discussion in a public session. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the result of the National Mobility Conference held in 2017, that is, almost two years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u146	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u147	Minister, the long consultation between your department, industry professionals and user associations was generally welcomed. However, although enriched by senators, your text is not as ambitious as it should have been.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u148	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u149	This is reflected in all the hearings we have conducted with my colleague Valérie Lacroute, on behalf of our parliamentary group. If our discussions have been cordial in committee – and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the quality of Mrs Pompili's presidency – this does not diminish the impression that the Government has been unprepared for this text. It must be said that this is a sum of technical measures, more than a major one. On the other hand, Madam Minister, the lack of funding, which remains the nerve of war, will not allow you to respond to the demand of our fellow citizens, especially those living in rural areas. We share the Government's objectives in terms of reducing the territorial divide and improving transport infrastructure; But if we do not doubt your intentions in this area, our group has strong reservations about the funding allocated to it. This text could be a beautiful law if you could afford it. Thus, among the scenarios proposed by the Infrastructure Orientation Council, you opt for a median solution, and you do not provide any details about the €1.3 billion missing over the duration of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u150	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u151	You have also excluded very useful projects, such as the extension of the Rhine-Rhône high-speed line, when tens of millions of euros had already been spent on acquiring the land and carrying out feasibility studies. What a pity for this great project and for the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region! In committee, you said you were working on a solution that would integrate the extension of this line and you said you would share it with us in a public session. I hope that our discussions will conclude on this point, especially since this project brings together elected representatives from all walks of life – that is to point out. A large railway country like France has a duty to keep construction sites on its territory for ever to improve. It is not appropriate to oppose, as you do regularly, large infrastructures such as the TGV to everyday mobility; Besides, you know our commitment to small lines. Beyond this text and the various infrastructure projects, the issue of transport is now a daily concern for households. Travel is one of the main burdens in the family budget. In a large majority of cases, you have to take your car to work, pick up the children at school, consult the doctor or simply buy the bread. In your speech earlier, you gave the impression, Madam Minister, that you wanted to solve the problems of rural people using new technologies or soft mobility. Of course, autonomous vehicles have a future – I have, for my part, successfully tested a French autonomous shuttle in my city of Dole – but it is illusory to make the French believe that they will not encounter any difficulties in the near future thanks to the autonomous car. The self-service scooter has its full place in the heart of the metropolises, but it only concerns the urban ones, who already benefit from other transport offers. Of course, soft mobility must be encouraged, it is indisputable, but let us be realistic: we do not all live in an urban area that is conducive to this kind of solution. The French are attached to their car not out of taste, but out of necessity. Let's stop blaming them to diesel and give them the means to change the way they move. Let us avoid making the same mistakes as with diesel by directing our fellow citizens to the all-electric. Let us not lie to the French by giving them the illusion that changing a diesel vehicle against an electric vehicle is irrelevant to the environment. The impact is important on the extraction of minerals and the difficulty of recycling batteries raises many questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u152	Good questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u153	Above all, the French who listen to us are wondering how they will pay for this type of vehicle. Not everyone can afford a new car; So imagine what it's like for an electric car! The electric vehicle can be a solution, but it is not the only solution. Let us not deprive ourselves of hydrogen or superethanol, for example. Let us develop the energies in the territories so that all solutions can find their place quickly. The reduction of self-solism is an objective on which we can find ourselves. We must find the most concrete and the least abrupt way to reduce fuel consumption. We must make every effort to limit individual travel. It is a new way of thinking about our movements and we will have to fight against our habits. While the provisions contained in the text were in the right direction, incentives should be preferred to coercive measures. The French are attached to their freedom to come and go, and this is even more precious for those who live in sparsely populated areas. This is why motorists should not be penalized; they should be encouraged to change their behaviour. Beyond the question of carpooling, the question of reserved lanes is important. Let us not send the French the message that those who can afford a low-carbon vehicle could take priority or preferred routes. Let's not recreate a royal way. If I fully understand the desire to promote the most responsible behaviour, it would be a serious signal for social cohesion to oppose the privileged to the poorest. As far as professionals are concerned, it is also not a question of sending conflicting signals to taxis and VTCs: the route reserved for taxis, who pay a high price for their licence, must be maintained, but must also pay great attention to the working conditions of VTC drivers. With regard to the processing of digital data on our transport consumption habits, it is essential that the mobility organising authorities monitor it. Indeed, while the data revolution and that of artificial intelligence allow our country to optimize mobility services, the Republicans Group believes that this revolution must be regulated by the mobility organizing authorities – the AOMs – which finance transport on a daily basis and are legitimate in order to collect and share data, and in this capacity must be able to keep control over their reuse. It is therefore essential to open up to AOM alone the possibility of distributing all transport tickets linked to mobility solutions organised on their territory. Don't give the GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – and other digital weapons giants to fight us. Of course, we share your objective of facilitating transport usage, especially for people with reduced mobility, but it must go hand in hand with the quality of life in transport. Of course I'm thinking about security. Minister, our group expects a lot from you. In the current context, the feeling of insecurity in public transport deserves attention. Indeed, taking a bus or a subway should not worry our fellow citizens. However, with reference to the study by the National Federation of Transport User Associations (FNAUT), almost nine out of ten female users report having been subjected to harassment or sexual assault on public transport. Such a proportion calls for action! How is it possible that offenders, although identified, can still use public transportation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u155	And we no longer count the warnings of the drivers indicating the presence of pickpockets in the subway trains.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u156	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u157	Minister, I know you're involved in these matters. I hope that a consensus will allow us to propose more stringent measures, particularly against repeat offenders. One more word on river transport: our country, which has been rich in this field over time, remains rich in rivers, which only need to be used. The increase in the appropriations allocated to the waterways of France is to be welcomed – as well as the progress made on the Seine-Nord Europe Canal. Finally, I will conclude by welcoming our French road hauliers, who remain indispensable to meet our needs; They have been able to adapt and the fleet of French trucks is now cleaner than ever. Let us support them by supporting them more in their mutations, for example by reassuring them on bioGNV – natural gas for vehicles of renewable origin. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we think of this bill at the end of its time in committee. We will be committed, Madam Minister, to working with you to enrich this text; be sure that we will be there to bring solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u158	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1254.u159	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the mobility policy bill. The meeting is adjourned.
