ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft budget regulation and approval of the accounts for 2018 (No. 2137, 2168).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u3	Last week, after recognizing the sincerity of the 2018 accounts and having passed all the articles of the text one by one, the Senate did not pass the bill that was before it. We could be content with astonishment or even regret it, since the law of settlement is, after all, only an exercise of ex post facto observation, a moment of truth more than a moment of controversy. But since we have to see again, let us see. Let us again note that last year the government deficit fell by 0.3 percentage points of GDP, to 2.5% compared to 2.8% in 2017, which is EUR 10 billion lower than the initial forecast. It should also be noted that last year the public expenditure ratio increased from 55% to 54.4% of GDP, credifying our target of a 3-point reduction over the quinquennium. Let us again note that last year, the compulsory levy rate fell by 0.2 percentage points to 45% of GDP, again with the desire to meet our targets. It should be noted once again that last year the state's wealth income stood at less than €51.9 billion, the best result since 2008 and that, again last year, public debt stabilized at 98.4 per cent of GDP, which had not happened in years. We could also see that if these results were achieved, it was that everyone took their share of the effort: the State first, which held its objective with an under-execution of 1.4 million euros in relation to the standard of expenditure; Social security, whose expenditure under ONDAM, improved by 3.9 million, has been the best since 2001; Finally, local authorities, which have played the role of contracting, with an increase in operating costs, all budgets combined, to 0.4 % against a target set by the Programming Act at 1.2 %. All this has been possible by keeping the commitments and meeting the objectives we have set ourselves: to reduce public expenditure by 3 points of GDP, to finance the biggest tax reduction in 40 years – more than 27 billion euros thanks to the abolition of the housing tax and the reduction of the income tax – and to devote the necessary credits to increasing the means of security, education or energy transition. If it is another success that I would like to highlight today for 2018, it is that of parliamentary work, and not only at the time of the review of the finance law. If, once the appropriations have been voted, it is of course up to the Government to ensure that they are properly implemented – I believe that we do not have to be ashamed of results, with a reserve rate of only 3%, a reduction in carry-overs and no decree in advance – then Parliament must not divest itself of its prerogatives of control. You have demonstrated this in the context of the second spring of the evaluation, this democratic exercise, which is now needed as a highlight of the fiscal year: it obliges the Government to make an unprecedented effort to make sure that the new tools are used in the best possible way. I am thinking in particular of direct access to Chorus software or the exploitation of detailed general accounting data, now available in open data. We want to go further, and I know how to count on you. Yesterday the rapporteur-general presented his report on the application of the tax law: we will now have to work together on the best way to answer the questions asked, as soon as possible and under the best conditions. I can also count on the proposals of the majority. I am thinking of the recent motions for resolutions of the Committee on Finance, that of Mr Saint-Martin, on the budgetary control arrangements by Parliament and on performance indicators, that of Mrs Goulet, on the proper implementation of the appropriations of the general budget, that of Mrs Motin, on the management and evaluation of the State's wage bill, or that of Mr Jolivet, on tax expenditure. These are some of the projects that I am sure will enable us to improve the quality of budgetary implementation and its control by Parliament. These advances are the result of the mobilization of parliamentarians, especially those of the majority, whom I thank. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the meantime, of course, I invite you to pass this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u4	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, alternate, Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u5	I will not be much longer than you, Secretary of State: I will be content with two brief remarks, considering that there was no need for a new reading of the 2018 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill. But the Senate rejected the text at first reading on July 11. When we examined this morning, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, the draft law on the transformation of the civil service, our colleague Laurence Vichnievsky had a very fair formula, according to which the credibility of the substance of our debates also depends on our collective respect for the parliamentary procedure. However, in the Senate, both members of the Republican Group and members of the Socialist and Republican Group have made the examination of this text a forum for them to oppose the government's and the majority's public finance policy, which we can understand absolutely, but not when it comes to the previous year's bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts. This is out of the question, and it obliges us to look at this text again. Personally, I am sorry for this, because the agenda of the National Assembly is already sufficiently busy. Since the Senate proposes it, let us refer briefly to the results of the 2018 fiscal year. We have to ask ourselves the right questions. First question: have the accounts deteriorated compared to the forecast? No: the deficit is €9.7 billion lower than the forecast of the 2018 Finance Act. The second question is whether the state's expenditure has been contained. Yes. It has only increased at constant scope by 0.6%, i.e. EUR 1.4 billion. The standard of pilotable spending was met, as was the government's total spending target. That is to be welcomed. Third question: Is the 2018 execution a problem of sincerity? No, and the Senate recognized it: Parliamentary authority has been respected. This is a considerable progress, which we regularly recall and which must be hammered, because it is the trademark of the Government and the legislature. Yes, we are proud of the sincerity of our budgets and the good quality of their management. There was no decree in advance, for the first time since 1985 – the year of my birth: that is! As for the level of reserve of appropriations, excluding Title 2, it was reduced by 5 points – from 8 % to 3 % – without any more constraint on management than in previous years. Here again, we must congratulate ourselves. In the field of total public expenditure, the 2018 results show a marked change from previous years. The government deficit has decreased more than expected in the programming law. The ratios of public expenditure and compulsory levies have decreased. The debt ratio has stabilized. For the rest, the review of the text allowed the Government to explain the forecast deviations – the Government had been able to respond to relevant amendments defended, inter alia, by our socialist colleagues. Moreover, and this is significant, no amendments have been tabled at a new reading. That is to say, the utility of this one! The Government had also been able to express its views on the under-executions and over-executions of financial laws in the context of the discussion of Perrine Goulet's motion for a resolution. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, I recommend that we adopt this text in the version adopted by the National Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u6	In the general debate, Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u7	I have noted what Laurent Saint-Martin has just said: the law of settlement would be so technical that it cannot be made a political object. It is not, in my view, for the majority to decide what kind of comment or remark the opposition is called upon to make. You will therefore allow me to make a political judgment on this text, which summarizes the way in which a finance law has been applied – it is therefore eminently political. Throughout the year, France has consistently opposed the unjust and destructive financial decisions of the Government and the majority, the present text of which is merely a revealing one. Unfortunately, our arguments have often been ignored, our proposals swept away. A year later, the time for the stocktaking has come, and this one is very sad. All these well-ordered figures, which seem to satisfy you so well, we know that they correspond to dramatic realities on the ground and in people's lives. When you are satisfied that you are meeting the arbitrary demands of Brussels and its absurd 3% rule, you welcome the fall in the public deficit to 2.5% of GDP, we know what its cost was: austerity, the decline in public services and the increase in poverty in our country. On the other hand, you seem to regard the well-being of your fellow citizens and the proper functioning of our society as the last of your concerns. How can you explain otherwise that you have allowed yourself an under-execution of 1.4 billion compared to the total budget provided for in the original finance law? When you spend EUR 420 million less than expected in staff, even though these are appropriations voted and approved by Parliament, what should be deducted from them? Do you really think that there is no need for public officials to fill today in France, and that these credits were superfluous? Perhaps you live in a parallel world where everything is fine, where neither hospitals, schools, courts, or public services feel the catastrophic lack of resources. In this parallel world, perhaps there was no interest in using this money to help staff and support our institutions. But in our world, which is the real world, public services are in crisis, staff and users are exhausted and rightly feel abandoned. While the budget you had planned for them was already insufficient, you didn't even have the decency to respect it. So you have to assume your beautiful columns of numbers, not only choosing the numbers that you like, those that give you the falsely wise and reasonable look. You have to assume them for what they really mean. For example, you have to tell the sick in hospitals or exhausted caregivers that they have not understood anything, that there are too many personnel, and that you could not have paid any additional people with these unexecuted millions. Tell them your truth, while emergency services are in crisis – as you know – and have been calling for help for months! The same applies to all cancellations of commitment authorisations and payment appropriations not carried over into 2019: I do not believe for a single moment that hundreds of millions of euros of appropriations could be quietly cancelled without it harming the missions for which they had been planned and voted. In the midst of an ecological crisis, is it not foolish to cancel more than 530 million commitment authorizations and 19.6 million payment appropriations for the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs"? And could the overseas mission not have seriously used its 73.8 million payment appropriations, the mission "Work and employment" its 14.2 million and the mission "Justice" its 53.6 million? The bleak list of these neglected missions is still long, while each of them is valuable and essential to the general interest, while each of these sectors is in dire need of these appropriations. Yet you had no shame in silently setting them aside, and for what result? Even taking into account your own success criteria, the account is not there! Let us take the example of growth, which you say in the explanatory memorandum "confirms the strength of the French economy". It actually rose from 2.3% to 1.6% in 2018, while global growth remains at 3.7%. And for 2019, only the 17 billion that you granted to the yellow vest movement in terms of popular consumption allowed you, by causing an increase in growth of 0.3%, to raise your head compared to other European countries, which clearly shows that France needs not a policy of supply, but a policy of demand. It would be a lesser evil if this slowdown were not the sign and direct consequence of your austere measures and the misery they aggravate or create. Moreover, the Government dares to boast of an increase of 1 per cent in the purchasing power of households, when we know very well that this figure conceals a reality as sad as it is unheard of, that of the increasing inequality. For you are careful to give us more details on the categories of income that have benefited from this increase, and it is no coincidence: it is the richest who earn it, as usual! According to the PPI – Institute for Public Policy – if we take the cumulative effects of the 2018 and 2019 measures, the richest 1% of our citizens have had an average annual gain of 3016 euros! Worse still: the most affluent 0.1% have seen a 17.5% increase in their disposable income since Macron's arrival, while the stock was already large, representing annual gains ranging from 32000 euros to several hundred thousand for already extremely wealthy households. If there is a purchasing power that has increased in our country, it is that of those who absolutely did not need it! Meanwhile, it is the most modest 9% who lose, the ones you should protect, the ones you should help. Instead, those who already have so much difficulty getting away with it every month lose a little more to each of your reforms – I am thinking in particular of the reduction of personalized housing subsidies – APL. As we continue to offer you concrete solutions for the good of all, you systematically prefer pass-throughs to the benefit of the most powerful: this applies to the finance law as well as to the privatization of Paris Airports – ADP – or the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – CETA – that you passed in force yesterday. In fact, you prefer profit and free trade to the general interest. Instead of listening and listening to economists, who encourage you to take advantage of historically low interest rates to finally launch a large investment plan, the one we would need so much, if only to answer the question of ecology, you prefer to cut the axe in budgets. For example, you prefer to protect and cherish tax niches, which increased by €6.7 billion between 2017 and 2018. Since the Secretary of State invited us to attend, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Joël Giraud's excellent information report on the application of tax measures, which estimates tax expenditure at EUR 99.3 billion. Tax expenditure is less revenue for the state. For our part, we prefer to cut in tax expenditures that, as the report shows, still benefit the richest, rather than in public spending. Similarly, according to the report, it is businesses that benefit the most from these tax expenditures, since they benefit from two thirds of them. The competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – is the archetype of this type of expenditure. It's a real gabegie: the state throws money out the window without asking for any compensation in terms of employment. Mr. The Mayor has recently promised that the reduction in income tax by €5 billion would be largely financed by a reduction in business tax niches. The Government is now talking about only 1.5 billion, and it will soon be 600 million euros. I hope that the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance will defend amendments based on the report and that the majority will be able to support them, even in the event of an unfavourable opinion from the Government. With regard to this bill of regulation, you welcome the creation of your innovation fund, which must be abounded by the money generated by the privatisations of French gaming companies (FDJ), Engie and ADP, while the Court of Auditors itself does not see the interest of what it describes as "complex and unjustified budgetary mechanics". This fund will, in your view, have 10 billion, whereas the Court of Auditors explains that these are unnecessarily complicated operations, which in practice will finance innovation only to the extent of the interest reported by this fund, i.e. 250 million euros, three times less than what the rents of these companies, in which the State is the majority, now bring. This fund is a simple pretext for your scandalous privatizations, such as that of the FDJ or ADP. I take this opportunity to appeal once again to the French to sign the petition: if we collect 4.7 million signatures, we can get a referendum. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Behind your communication effects, the vast majority of French people continue to lose every day a little more of their social conquests – as the announcements of this morning on pensions show – and just a little more of their money, for the benefit of a few.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u8	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u9	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u10	On 15 May, the Government initiated the accelerated procedure on the draft 2018 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill. After having been adopted at first reading in the National Assembly, even if we were opposed to it, the latter was rejected in the Senate and then by the Joint Joint Committee which met recently. So here we are again, at the end of this special session, for a new reading of the Budget Settlement Bill – a budget that we all know well, a budget to which we have fiercely opposed and to which we will not subscribe any more today. Over the past few months, almost everything has been said about the 2018 Budget Settlement Act. This budget is that of fantasy competitiveness and the societal divide. It is that of deregulation, big companies and big fortunes. France has adorned itself with its most liberal beauties in an attempt to attract investors. According to your criteria, success is present, without any possible questioning; But at what cost? What were the sacrifices of some and the gifts made to others to get there? The 2018 budget will have been that of the rich. We challenged it before it was adopted, and we will remain in line with it. It was an electoral budget, which was designed for the most affluent and financed on the backs of the least affluent. It is a budget that has orchestrated the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF, the brutal cuts in the APLs, the reduction of the corporate tax and the more global reduction of the contribution of companies to the national effort. It was this budget that weakened the confidence of the French in the Republic and fed a rumble that led to the emergence of major social movements. Why are these movements? Simply because the French people have gathered against a state that is asking more and more for the less well-off, while offering more and more gifts to the rich. In the end, it was EUR 11.3 billion of tax relief that was implemented, benefiting the French who had the most resources, and more broadly, capital. We have already had the opportunity to break down this amount: 3.5 billion euros come from the CICE, 3.2 billion from the disappearance of the ISF, 1.6 billion from the flat tax, 1.2 billion from the decrease in corporate tax – IS – and 1.8 billion from the non-replacement of the 3% dividend tax. On the other hand, the housing tax was reduced, but at the same time, the amount of LPAs was reduced. We give something while taking it away. We are told that corporate tax cuts will boost growth and productivity, but what assurance do we have, since there is no conditionality, no counterpart? The reduction in corporate taxes is offset by VAT, amounting to €4.3 billion. The domestic consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE –, this pump tax, on the rise, also brought in an additional 2.6 billion euros, but what are the consequences? Households were still affected. The increase in the price of diesel fuel was the spark that set the powders on fire at the end of last year. In short, it was the French and French, as individuals, who were amputated with aid and purchasing power with all these measures. The state's revenue may therefore seem stable at first glance, but it is only an artificial surprise. Some government expenditure items may have been inflated, such as school education, defence or solidarity, integration and equal opportunities. However, other primary missions, such as "Work", "Cohesion of Territories" or "Agriculture", have suffered. The staff and budget of some ministries have increased, while others have been reduced, with the absolute objective of reducing public spending. The army and defence are announcing themselves as the big winners of the next budget, with an increase of €1.7 billion. National education, health and justice will be entitled to increases, not the Ministry of Labour. Worse, in Bercy, there is a real disaster: 10,000 posts will be abolished by 2022. All this will have tragic consequences for the territories, the cash flow and the smooth functioning of the institutions. Savings have been made on all sides, despite the measures announced at the end of the major debate. The movement is "On", but the values of our Republic are at a standstill. The current policy is likely to continue on the same track, and the 2019 Finance Act is indeed taking the same direction as that of 2018: that of supply policy, the reduction of compulsory levies and the decrease in public spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u11	And taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u12	It depends on who! Why this policy of supply and reduction of corporate taxes? The current budget illustrates it more than ever: the CICE is doubled this year. It is the famous "cheese and dessert": 40 billion euros mobilized, more than 1.5 points of GDP allocated to the trading sector without compensation, without conditions, without targeting on employment, the environment, territorial investment. Even if the effectiveness of the CICE has not been demonstrated in any way, you choose to sanctuarize it. Moreover, you do not intend to put an end to this leak, since you are considering removing so-called production taxes. These taxes can have perverse effects. However, Minister Bruno Le Maire indicated at the outset that funding for the removal of these taxes would not be through an increase in corporate tax. So it will be you, me, the taxpayers, the citizens, who will pay the bill again. For its part, the drop in income tax in 2020 was to be largely financed by reducing business tax niches, including non-road diesel and corporate sponsorship. But these tiny shots of planos should only bring back 620 million euros to the state's coffers: a loophole. How can we finance the EUR 5 billion resulting from the decline in the IR? These niches will not be really attacked, while they represent EUR 100 billion and serve the most affluent and large groups very widely. The fall in income tax will benefit the middle classes, but not the lower classes, who do not pay it. Public spending will continue to be largely contained in volume, at more than 0.5% by 2020, a symbol of an austerity policy that does not say its name. Massive savings will be made. They will be implemented through the reform of the audiovisual sector, unemployment insurance, housing policy, minimum-aided contracts, endangered cash flows, and the national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – which will be locked up. Another potential lever could be pensions. For the moment, we are still in a state of blur, even though things are becoming clearer. The bad memory of attempts to reform the pension system leaves us with no good foresight. It is already said that the duration of contributions could be increased. The recasting of local taxation is expected to be a major stumbling block. The total removal of the housing tax, whether desired or not, will reduce the tax on some well-off households by EUR 8 billion. The large tax move suggests resource transfers from one community to another. This will be one of the major issues of the next FLP. Local authorities are already on their feet. We will make proposals to ensure their autonomy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, where is the long-awaited tax revolution? Why refuse to open your eyes to the record of our nation's policy? Why insist on the doctrine of free trade disinhibited while providing for archaic and unjust reforms? No, we are not validating this budget bill, which feeds a policy that is contrary to all our values, which supports the richest and the big companies rather than the poorest and the local communities. We refuse to vote on this bill, reflecting an increasingly free-trade budget. How can we support a majority and a government that does not support their people? As the majority of senators did the day before yesterday, we will vote against it. As long as you continue to support only the trading sector and the major groups, we will vote against it. As long as the big figures take precedence over the realities experienced by the French, we will vote against. As long as you do not accept the grievances of our people, we will vote against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u13	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u14	Senators have decided not to vote on the 2018 Settlement Act. Without questioning the motivations behind them, let me be surprised. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you know that I have the greatest respect for the political convictions that you sincerely defend. I know for my part that, like us, you are committed to the rigour of budgetary implementation by the Government, which reflects respect for the democratic will of parliamentarians. So let me remind you, concretely and sincerely, why you have every reason to vote – as we will – on this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts. First of all, the 2018 financial year will have been for all the enlightened observers that of a faithful and sincere execution, close to that programmed in the original finance law, both at the global level and in the detail of the nature of the expenditure and the missions. For the first time in more than 30 years, no advance decrees were issued. No advance decree was issued, even though they were able to represent up to €3.4 billion in appropriations opened in 2016 and we had to vote on two amending finance bills in 2017 to restore the balance of accounts. Sub-budgeting has been reduced to €1.5 billion, while it has continued to grow since 2013, reaching €4.4 billion in 2017. The total amount of frozen appropriations has been the lowest recorded since 2006, with a 60% decrease and particularly low freezing – less than EUR 1 billion. The openings and cancellations of credits are almost balanced, around more or less 2 billion euros, and are among the lowest since the entry into force of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, the LOLF! In addition, the expenditure implemented is about EUR 1 billion lower than the appropriations approved in the original Finance Act and the objective of total State expenditure is scrupulously respected. The standard of pilotable expenditure is thus held, despite a rising revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union, in contrast with previous years when this levy was used as an adjustment variable. As a result of economic activity reinvigorated by concrete measures taken by the majority and the Government, tax revenues are higher than foreseen in the original Finance Act, even though the weight of compulsory levies in relation to GDP decreases slightly, from 45.2% to 45%. While the decline may seem modest, it nevertheless marks a sharp break with previous years: the deficit is improved by €9.7 billion compared to the forecast of the original finance law; The debt burden and its weight in GDP are stabilized, allowing us to generate resources dedicated to improving our public services, not debt repayment. The settlement law is a technical law, which establishes the final amount of resources and cash charges, approves the profit and loss account for the financial year, allocates the accounting result for the financial year to the balance sheet and approves the balance sheet after allocation. In short, Mr Coquerel did not dislike any political good.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u15	Yes, cancellations of credits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u16	For if political differences can exist on the content of the budget, there is nothing surprising: the settlement law is above all the document by which we verify that the execution was carried out in the rules of the art, to adopt accounts closer to the reality. This is a vital democratic requirement. The facts are undeniable: in 2018, budget implementation was sincere, faithful and much more transparent than in previous years. This legislation is therefore one of the markers of the great progress made in the maintenance of public accounts. It offers a realistic photograph, a photograph of which we must collectively be proud and an image which the French have the right to know. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote on this regulation, as we will do, to note with us that, although it has not met all your expectations, this budget has been carried out with sincerity and in accordance with the rules of law. No more, no less.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u17	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u18	We are therefore reviewing the 2018 Settlement Bill again, following the failure of the Joint Joint Committee on Tuesday, July 16. The review on this date of the 2018 achievement is taking place in conjunction with the debate on the direction of public finances, which is preparing the finance bill for 2020. At this stage, it is not possible to review the text without linking it to 2019 and 2020. Indeed, while the result of the 2018 budget implementation is the intangible proof of the government's renunciation of the balance of public accounts, the elements that are provided to us at this stage for 2020 are unfortunately in correlation with the 2018 execution. First of all, a few general comments on the state deficit, which is growing to a worrying level. Indeed, while the government deficit in 2018 stood at €59.6 billion, or 2.5 points of GDP, the government deficit is growing for the first time in three years. As a result, the French state has a deficit of more than €76 billion in 2018, an increase of more than 12.3% in one year. As the Court of Auditors rightly points out, the State spends twice as much as it owns, largely because it is unable to limit the increase in its staff costs. Here I would like to recall the evolution of the government's payroll: a 2% increase between 2017 and 2018, with a near-stabilization of the workforce – 206 full-time equivalents – FTEs – more in 2018. However, compared to 2017, expenditure on the general state budget is increasing by EUR 2.6 billion, of which EUR 1.5 billion is for scope and transfer measures. After more than two years of responsibility, the Government has still not committed any structural savings plan. Contrary to its promises to reduce the number of public jobs, the workforce has not declined at all. On average, over the last three years, more than 11,000 posts have been created each year. The President of the Republic himself acknowledged that he was abandoning the objective – announced during his presidential campaign – of 120,000 abolitions of posts in the civil service. However, only the control of spending will reduce the tax burden and then reduce our deficit. You did not start this process of reducing excess public spending in 2018 and 2019. Worse, it appears that 2020 will also see no significant savings: public spending will increase by 0.5% in volume. They are expected to continue at this rate in 2021, before decelerate in 2022 – even though they will still increase by more than 0.2%. Within the state, the only sluggish spending – those on which the government can intervene – will increase by 0.5 per cent in 2020, or by 4.6 billion euros. By 2022, they will increase by EUR 14 billion. In fact, Public Action Plan 2022, presented but immediately put back in the closets, will never come into being. While since 2018 the Government has given up making savings in terms of the number of civil servants, there is now a renunciation of short-term savings in pensions by pushing back the starting age from 2020. All budgetary efforts are therefore abandoned or reduced: the objective of returning to balance of public finances in 2022 is abandoned, the new target being - 1.2% of the public deficit, instead of the initial target of a surplus of 0.3%; the target of reducing the burden of public expenditure is reduced, with a target of -2.1% instead of - 3.3% initially; the target of a five-point reduction in public debt is dropped, with a new debt reduction target of 1.6 percentage points, three times lower than the original target. Let me now talk to you about the evolution of the debt for each of the French. The Government is proud to give back 27 billion euros to the French on the quinquennium, through the abolition of the housing tax and future tax cuts, including some already foreseen in the draft finance bill for 2020. But when he announced that he would restore purchasing power to the French, he would have to talk at the same time about the increase in debt since June 2017. The figures for public debt, measured according to the Maastricht criteria, are as at 31 December 2016, EUR 2147 billion; as at 30 June 2017, 2276 billion; as at 31 December 2017, 2258 billion; at 31 March 2018, 2296 billion; As at 31 December 2018, $2,315 billion, and the latest figure as at 31 March 2019, $2,359 billion. These figures show that the debt increased by EUR 168 billion between 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2018. In two years, 168 billion euros of additional debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u19	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u20	In the last quarter alone, i.e. the first quarter of 2019, debt increased by €43.6 billion. This is more than the average of what we have seen in the previous two years. If you continue at this rate, the debt will grow by 420 billion euros between June 2017 and June 2022. The French must know that the 27 billion euros of purchasing power supposedly given back to households are in fact financed by debt. They will be compensated, sooner or later, by new taxes – it is, alas, obvious. And 27 billion euros are really little compared to a debt whose projection assumes an increase of the order of 420 billion euros. In fact, the French public debt per capita – which can also be a reference and certainly speaks more to our fellow citizens – at 31 December 2016 was 32000 euros; as at 31 March 2019, it is 35200 euros. In two years, you have therefore increased the debt of each Frenchman by 3200 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u21	It's a slip!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u23	This is a totally irresponsible attitude on your part, because you know very well that it is our children, future generations, who will have to repay it at the cost of immense sacrifices. It is deplorable that you do not use these years of favourable growth and low interest rates to undertake a reform, which is essential and should be yours, aimed at reducing public spending. Of course, the interest burden to be repaid in 2019 is expected to decrease by 400 million euros compared to 2018, to 41.1 billion euros, and then to continue in 2020, down to 40.8 billion euros. But cheap debt is a dangerous mirror to larks, which pushes the wrong student not to make any effort. Finally, I want to put France back in the euro zone. From 2017 to 2018, debt and government deficit fell in the euro area. The deficit thus increased from 1% to 0.5% of GDP, while at the same time our deficit was three times higher than the average. The divergence in the debt path between France and its main partners has continued to increase. Germany's public debt continues to decline rapidly, barely exceeding 60 points of GDP in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u24	What about growth?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u25	The euro area, excluding Germany and France, has declined since 2014 and is now lower than that of France. France is thus one of the worst pupils in the euro area. In conclusion, if France emerged from the excessive deficit procedure last year, the European Commission is already concerned about the French slackening. While the Government has been able to make it believe, over the first eighteen months, that our country is committed to the necessary reform of public spending, it has shown from its true face.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u26	Lack of courage...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As you can see, Members of the Republican Group will not vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u28	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u29	I will begin by recalling that the principle of the Settlement Act is to approve the accounts for the past fiscal year. It is therefore not a question of asking for more budget for such a public policy and less for such a policy, but only, as Mr Cendra Motin said very well, to take note of what has actually been spent. Thus, the balance found in recent years with the Senate, which presented its opinion, positive or negative, on the Government's fiscal policy in a debate on the direction of public finances while adopting the settlement law, seemed to be a matter of common sense. It was therefore with surprise that we witnessed the Senate's rejection of the bill, which had passed all the articles of the bill successively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u30	Perhaps we should ask ourselves why the Senate rejected the bill when it used to pass it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u31	Under the previous legislature, the Senate was already rejecting the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u32	So here we are engaged in a new reading. The MODEM and related groups reaffirm their support for this text. I would like to highlight one specific point in this bill: the sharp increase in the resources allocated to the armies decided by the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u33	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u34	The decline and the stagnation of the appropriations between 2010 and 2017 have had serious consequences for our armies, also facing serious recruitment difficulties. As is well known, budget cuts result in skill losses, which require a much greater financial effort than savings and a much longer time than the one on which skills were lost. In many areas, the situation was critical, and any lack of effort for our armies would have resulted in almost irremediable skill losses, particularly in the area of nuclear deterrence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u35	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u36	Thus, the ambitious trajectory adopted under the military programming law for the years 2018 to 2022, which aims at a level of expenditure representing 2% of GDP in 2025, makes it possible to devote the necessary resources to the security of our citizens. It is a strong budgetary effort, amounting to an additional 1.7 billion euros each year – not 1.7 billion over the entire quinquennium – that is being made, while we are all aware of the deteriorating state of our public finances. Thus, after €33 billion in 2017, €34.5 billion in 2018 and €36 billion in 2019, the budget of the Defence Mission will be €41 billion in 2022. It is therefore a total budgetary effort of more than 25 billion that will be made during this parliamentary term for our armies and the security of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At this re-reading of the bill, the MODEM Group wished to highlight this important effort, which its members approve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u37	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u38	The review of the proposed Regulations is an important exercise, which has been able to regain some colour thanks to the "Spring of Evaluation" held over the past two years. But contrary to what one of our colleagues has said, this is not a technical exercise without any political consideration. Indeed, in some sections of the bill, the Government makes proposals on which we may or may not agree. Of course, to vote on the bill is to say whether or not the Government has implemented the budget in accordance with what had been voted. In response to this question, the Court of Auditors provided a number of replies. Although we do not agree with the policies that have been implemented, the Court of Auditors has made a number of observations, some of which give reason to the Government, while others are somewhat less favourable to the executive. I won't come back. What matters, what is subject to our vote, is what we are going to do with the appropriations that have not been used.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u39	We're cutting taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u40	You have completely evaded this question. There are two options: either these credits are carried over to the following year, or they are cancelled. This issue is addressed in the final sections of the proposed Regulations. It is forbidden for us parliamentarians to choose between these two options: we can only see the choices proposed by the Government, which is somewhat frustrating. Like last year, we would have liked to have been able to cancel the cancellations of the Government's appropriations, which this year is of unprecedented magnitude. You may dispute this, but I invite you to enter a few figures in an Excel table: you will immediately see that the cancellations of appropriations proposed this year by the Government are of an unprecedented magnitude. Thus, in a text that some consider to be technical, article 4 is of full importance. In this article, Secretary of State, you cancel €7 billion in commitment authorisations and €1 billion in payment appropriations. In concrete terms, you cancel €36 million of commitment authorisations mainly for the "Heritage" programme, while the fire at Notre-Dame has highlighted the immense needs that exist in this area. Mrs Florennes has just referred to the "Defence" mission. In Article 4, precisely, the Government cancels €1.2 billion of commitment authorizations for this mission, including €855.8 million in the "Preparation and Use of Forces" programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u41	With such reasoning, it does not surprise me that you have indebted the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u42	My dear colleague, if you do not mind voting for appropriations that are not used, that is your problem. For my part, it bothers me to see that a law is not being applied as it should be and to vote for EUR 1.2 billion in cancellations of commitment authorisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u43	You've done it dozens of times in the previous quinquennium!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u44	I return to the "Defence" mission, where 213.6 million euros were not consumed due to the technical shutdown of the submarine The Terrible – the market has been postponed and commitment authorisations are removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u45	In 2018!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u46	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] They're deleted, Mrs. Motin. When you want to be consistent, when you postpone the market, you also postpone the commitment authorizations, instead of canceling them as you do. It's a little your trademark: there's what you're saying and there's what you're doing...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u47	It is a matter of budgetary sincerity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u48	The hiatus is quite important. Also in the Defence Mission, $491 million was not consumed due to the postponement of the contract commitment to support the A400M. Again, the commitment is deferred but commitment authorities are cancelled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u49	But the program continues!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u50	In addition, you cancel €454.7 million of commitment authorisations mainly for the "urbanism, territories and habitat improvement" programme. When we add up all these amounts, we actually arrive, in Article 4, at an amount of cancellations of commitment authorizations and payment appropriations which is unprecedented.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u51	Unpublished, really?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u52	If you make a historical series, you will see that this is the highest amount ever.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u53	That's not true! In 2015, the amount of cancellations was higher!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u54	No, Mr. Saint-Martin, it did not reach 7 billion euros. Among the other findings of this draft regulation is the question of staffing, mentioned in fact sheet 3 of the rapporteur-general's report at first reading. It is noted that the number of full-time equivalents is 26300 below the ceiling and that half of this underperformance concerns national education. Another question was whether departments could benefit from the appropriations as they had been voted. We have already noted that some missions are almost systematically concentrating on under-consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u55	We have adopted a motion for a resolution on this subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u56	The "Justice" mission under-consumed 116 million euros in 2018 after under-consumption of 167 million euros in 2017. The "Relations with local and regional authorities" mission under-consumed €89 million in 2018, compared to €46 million in 2017. This under-consumption is absolutely incomprehensible: you explain to us that communities do not fill out the files quickly enough and do not consume the funds quickly enough to carry out their investments, but in our ridings, we are told that the line of credit has been closed. This contradiction should be analysed in order to solve the problem. With regard to veterans, again, there is an under-consumption of €34 million in 2018, compared to €22 million in 2017. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not approve of your policy on a number of subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u57	We understand that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u58	On other matters, we voted for your texts. But we do not agree with the course you have set for your economic policy. But once again, to look at the proposed regulation is not to repeat the debate on the original finance bill, but to consider whether we agree on the budget implementation for the past year and whether we approve the proposed articles, including the cancellation of payment appropriations and commitment authorizations to the tune of EUR 7 billion. However, the Socialist and related group does not agree with these cancellations: we would obviously prefer that the appropriations be carried forward precisely in the budget for 2019. That is not the choice you have made, and that is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u60	You do not understand the very notion of budgetary sincerity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u61	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u62	We are re-reading the 2018 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill as the Joint Joint Committee failed. Unsurprisingly, our remarks will be in line with those we made at first reading, starting with the positive points that we would like to welcome. The first is the biggest simmering of the budget. Expenditure management was in line with the original forecast, allowing no use to be made of advance orders, whereas the previous quinquennium had abused them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u64	The Government has been able to meet its expenditure targets within the framework of budgetary authorities, thanks to a greater sincerity of the budget. The results are therefore to be put to his credit. Nevertheless, some sub-budgeting remains, but very marginally compared to previous executions – only €1.5 billion in 2018, mainly on external operations. With a deficit of 2.5% of gross domestic product in 2018, France was able to break out of the excessive deficit procedure initiated by the European Union since, for the second consecutive year, our country's government deficit was below 3% of GDP. The 2018 execution was marked by a sharp deceleration in activity, with an estimated growth of 1.6% compared to 2.3% in 2017. The international economic context is certainly for this: the slowdown in growth observed in France has been all over the world, amid trade tensions between the United States and China and a crisis between the United States and Iran, which has had an impact on oil prices. As far as the path of restoring the balance of our country's public finances is concerned, we must remain cautious for the future, because the deficit level remains very high, as has already been said, and this places considerable uncertainty on the end of the quinquennium. The structural deficit is a good indicator of the effort made on operating expenditure. However, it is almost zero for 2018 – barely 0.1 percentage points of GDP according to the revised opinion of the High Council for Public Finance. The explanation for this slight improvement in the structural balance is simple: the effort on public expenditure excluding tax credits has been absorbed almost entirely by measures to reduce compulsory levies decided by the Government. This becomes problematic when the High Council considers that the average effort in spending over the two years 2017 and 2018 is zero. However, European rules require a structural effort to reduce our public deficits by 0.5 percentage points per year or, failing that, an average of two years. So the account isn't there. The structural deficit remains at almost the same level and the possibility of achieving the medium-term objective set out in the law on public finance programming for the years 2018 to 2022 seems increasingly unattainable. This means that it is essential that savings be made in expenditure and that they go directly to the reduction of the deficit. Another cause for concern is that the government's budget deficit is growing, for the first time in five years. It deteriorated by €8.3 billion compared to 2017, reaching €76 billion in 2018. However, revenues are higher than initially forecast, mainly due to the incorrect attachment of transfer fees between 2017 and 2018, for €1.4 billion. So, how do we justify this slipping? Perhaps because of the reasons we have already mentioned, namely an increase in expenditure coupled with measures to reduce taxes. The expenditure effort focuses on social security administrations which, for two consecutive years, have managed to generate a surplus of EUR 10.7 billion for 2018. In addition, the local government authorities have also contributed to this effort, in keeping with the objective of spending the 322 territorial authorities which have contracted with the State, which allows me to underline the success of this mechanism. Nevertheless, these efforts are not enough to reduce France's debt. The general government debt has stabilised at 98.4% of GDP, but its level continues to rise to EUR 2315 billion. We are, we must recall, among the last in the euro area in terms of debt. The IMF is also concerned about the level of French debt for the future as our European neighbours have already begun to reduce their debt for several years. We are therefore moving away from the objective of returning to balance in the public accounts. This is proof of the debt of the State, which continues to worsen as a result of the increase in the deficit and exposes the State in the event of an increase in interest rates. As a result, the State's financial situation deteriorated in 2018. We became the second largest issuer of euro area debt securities, just behind Italy, with a government issue of medium- and long-term securities worth more than €225.4 billion in 2018. Moreover, the stabilization of the interest burden due to the favourable environment of low interest rates was not enough to improve France's financial health. The interest burden is €40.5 billion in 2018, compared to €40.7 billion in 2017. As Lise Magnier had done at the first reading, we would like to highlight these points of vigilance. The total cost of tax expenditure of 474 continued to grow in 2018, amounting to EUR 100.2 billion, an increase of 6.7 billion compared to 2017. The overall ceiling has become inoperative since the ceiling was raised by EUR 15 billion, well above the forecast. In addition, the assessment of their effectiveness at the present time remains incomplete, if not non-existent for some. As far as the taxes affected are concerned, it is not normal for them to be more and more State-related. Indeed, the mechanism for capping and capping the affected taxes brought the State a revenue of almost EUR 1 billion in 2018, up from 2017. The practice of assigned taxes contravenes the principle of the universality of the budget's resources. A solution should be found to rebudget them. Finally, the Court of Auditors has included in its implementation report an unprecedented approach to rethinking the performance of public financial management. Like many of my colleagues, I am very sensitive to this approach and I hope that you will also be, to the point of improving points such as the ever-increasing complexity of the state's fiscal framework, information, which has been enriched at the risk of becoming overabundant, and incomplete, if not often obsolete, procedures and tools, in order to measure the efficiency of public policies. To reduce our public deficit, we must first have a comprehensive and informed view of all the data around it. Reliable, high-quality and documented information is the first step towards implementing solutions for significant structural improvement, in order to keep the risk of rising interest rates away and thereby increase the debt burden. Only at this price will we be able to restore public finances by the end of the legislature. As we said in the public finance policy debate, sincerity must remain a habit, and this is a strong point observed in 2018. It must now be accompanied by a real reduction in public spending, which cannot wait any longer. I have no doubt that you will share this wish. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, even if there are areas for improvement that deserve to be explored, given the positive aspects of this 2018 settlement law, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u65	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u66	As an introductory statement, I would like to express my satisfaction with the implementation of the 2018 Finance Act as adopted by Parliament. Indeed, the management of the State's expenditure has been in line with the initial forecast. Evidence of this is that no advance order was required in the course of the year, where it had been used in previous years. For example, in 2018, sub-budgeting was limited to EUR 1.5 billion, compared to almost three times more in 2017, where it amounted to EUR 4.4 billion. This has been stressed, but I wanted to remind you, speaking on behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group. Improving the sincerity of financial laws, respecting the expenditure envelope in the context of budgetary authorities, is a sign of respect for parliamentary work. In addition, cancellations and appropriations have been among the lowest since the entry into force of the Organization Act on Finance Laws. The Court of Auditors notes the low level of reserves: the reserve rate rose from 8% in 2017 to 3% in 2018. Another encouraging sign of sincerity is that government revenues are in line with forecasts. They were even 8.8 billion euros higher than what was provided for in the finance law, despite the strikes of the SNCF and the so-called yellow vest movement. It is certainly appropriate to mitigate this by imputing these results better than expected to the favourable international situation, even though growth in France was inflection between 2017 and 2018, rather than the result of public action: in fact, despite these positive signals, several weaknesses persist, unfortunately, especially on the question of the deficit. The finance law for 2018 had indeed forecast a sharp increase in the state deficit, to 85.7 billion euros. In the end, it stood at 76 billion in 2018. On paper this seems to be positive, but this fact deserves to be tempered, as the government deficit continues to grow: it reaches 3% of GDP in 2018, or €8.3 billion more than in 2017. The score can even be increased by taking into account the 2.8 billion linked to the erroneous attachment of transfer rights between 2017 and 2018. In total, the deficit is 12% higher than it was the previous year, which cannot be considered, it must be agreed, as good news, and it is a euphemism. I note, moreover, that the effort to save money is not particularly supported by the State. Rather, it is assumed by the accounts of the social security administrations and the local authorities. It is therefore the latter that compensates for the increase in the government deficit. I stress that this is not anomalous: it is to the credit of the social security administrations and the communities that the reduction of the public deficit recorded in 2018 must first be carried out. The latter amounted to €59.6 billion in 2018, or 2.5 points of GDP, after 2.8 points in 2017. I note that this figure is 0.2 points lower than the figure planned for 2018 in the programming law. But let's focus on a very specific point. The European rules require us to reduce the structural deficit by 0.5 percentage points of GDP, or about EUR 12 billion per year. It should be remembered that the structural deficit is an indicator which derives its relevance from the fact that it is not linked to the hazards of the economic situation. However, this effort is only 0.1 points in 2018. I'd like to go further. In 2019, your forecasts rely on a structural effort of 0.3 percentage points of GDP, again far from the European target. We are not even meeting the derogation according to which the objective of reducing the structural deficit by 0.5 percentage points can exceptionally be achieved over two years. This is a problem that is not negligible. This situation is first and foremost the result of the political choices set out in the 2018 Finance Act: the transformation of the ISF into an IFI – a property tax –, the creation of the single flat-rate levy or the State's assumption of the rebate of the housing tax. You're setting a tax revenue drop of 13.5 billion. Finally, it will amount to EUR 5 billion, particularly as a result of the dynamism of energy taxation and VAT. It is another lever that the executive does not act: it is the reduction of public expenditure, as the Court of Auditors notes. This is a difficult problem, of course. Let us focus more specifically on tax expenditures. The latter increased by 6.7% to just over EUR 100 billion, an increase of 6.8 billion. The Court of Auditors considers that the mechanisms for capping tax expenditure are now inoperative. We must therefore work on a review of all tax niches, a problem that we have repeatedly raised because they come to "mit" income tax and obliterate its progressivity. The Court of Auditors also warns us of the need for transparency. It therefore estimates that of the seventy-seven tax expenditures of the "Economy" mission, twenty-seven are not assessed, or more than one-third. As a reminder, these tax expenditure amounts to a total of €28 billion. The current social context, symptomatic of the tax exasperation of our citizens, encourages us to become more transparent and effective vis-à-vis them. This reminder from the Court of Auditors is necessary. At this stage of my intervention, allow me to focus on the conditions for reviewing this bill. As you pointed out, Secretary of State, the changes to the timetable should allow us to devote more time to the examination of this text. We want it to become a real law of results and a highlight of parliamentary evaluation and scrutiny, which it has never been since the adoption of the LOLF, despite the ambitions displayed. However, the tightening of the timetable is not without difficulties. Not all of the data required for the evaluation came to us in time. Let us remember that the High Council for Public Finance was led to formulate its opinion before INSEE published the results of the 2018 annual accounts. However, these data were necessary for the calculation of the structural balance of general government. Let us beware that in the future the timetables will be aligned to make this law a tool with complete and up-to-date results. I will allow myself a second comment on the conditions for consideration by Parliament. We are indeed seeing an increased complexity of the State's budgetary framework, leading to an increasingly critical lack of readability. The direct consequence of this is the limitation of our ability to understand from a global perspective the financial challenges associated with State action. Let us take the example of the increasing circumvention of the budgetary framework applicable to State expenditure, mentioned by my colleague Charles de Courson at first reading. A significant part of the State's action is in fact housed in funds without legal personality which are not included in the State budget, except for their initial abundance. Expenditure on these funds is outside the State budget. Consequently, the means of funds without legal personality are not subject to the management rules established by the LOLF and de facto to the control of the Parliament. The creation of the Innovation and Industry Fund in 2018 is an enlightening illustration of this. This fund has known a recent celebrity. It was the company that was to host a non-consumable allocation of EUR 10 billion from the sale of the State's stakes in certain companies, notably Aéroports de Paris. In addition to our criticisms of the CAPTE law on business growth and transformation, this has led to unnecessarily complicated operations, as the Court of Auditors pointed out. In its opinion, it even advocated the re-budgeting of the fund. Such measures would improve the quality of our parliamentary work. We therefore take up this proposal on our own. [[Mr. Ian Boucard applauds]] In the meantime, in view of the elements that I have quickly outlined, Members of the Liberties and Territories Group will abstain very largely on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u67	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u68	"hypocrisy is a vice of fashion, and all vices of fashion turn out to be virtues." Of what was true in Molière's time, the Senate has just given us a new example. Last week, the upper house met to vote on the settlement law. The Senate adopted all the articles and then rejected the text as a whole. We must welcome the consistency of these oppositions, which forces us today to come together to discuss this text in a new reading. Perhaps even honourable senators imagine that this manoeuvre will be seen as an effect of virtue in the eyes of public opinion, an opposition that can be heard when circumstances so require. Of course, it is not. This decision is all the more absurd since the new reading will never open a new debate on the text. Adoption shall be by a vote of the text; no amendments will be discussed in the Assembly; and since it is a matter of closing accounts, it is clear that the amendments tabled by the Senate will not change the budgetary choices of last year. Then, as the Constitution wishes, the text will go back to both chambers and if the Senate repeats this little game, the National Assembly will decide as a last resort without the text going back to the upper chamber. The point, Mr Secretary of State, is that during the debate in the Senate, Jérôme Bascher awarded Gérald Darmanin a Molière – again! Could we not return his compliment to this Tartuffe for this beautiful staging? Because at last, isn't this law of regulation exemplary? First of all, for the past two years, the government deficit has been below 3% of GDP, which had never happened in a decade. An example is the introduction of two major advances in budgetary control: the end of the use of advance decrees and the sharp improvement of forecasts. Sub-budgeting is in decline, and this is a genuine effort to be honest with the accounts, which the Court of Auditors has welcomed this year. This is also an example of an unprecedented effort by local and regional authorities to clean up their finances. Thanks to the contract with the State, the objective of controlling the operating expenses of the communities was divided by four. The room for manoeuvre thus freed up increased investment. Finally, an example is the fact that, for the first year of full budgetary exercise of the Government and the majority, the general rapporteur of the Senate Finance Committee, a member of the opposition group The Republicans, wished to commend the sincerity of the bill. But all these reminders are useless because, in the end, the Senate's vote did not take place on the substance of the text: it is a posture. When our country expects urgent and healthy reforms, the Senate chooses to waste our time in an interestless procedure. Having started with Molière, I will end by quoting Péguy: "Only one lighter is needed to burn a farm. It takes years to build it. It takes months and months, it took work and labor to grow a harvest. And it only takes a lighter to blaze a harvest. "Then we will always be the weakest. We'll always go slower, we'll always do less. We are the party of those who build. They are the party of those who demolish. We're the party of the plow. They're the sword's party. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Happy holidays, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u69	Very nice quote! The MEPs will be angry!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u70	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u71	We met again after the Senate rejected the 2018 bill to regulate and approve the accounts by 212 votes to 98. Why, then, is such an opposition, when, in your opinion, we would have a great deal to congratulate ourselves on the results achieved in 2018? You boast of a 0.3% reduction in the public deficit between 2017 and 2018, a stabilisation of the public debt, accountability of the actors of the budgetary community, an under-execution of the standard of manageable expenditure to the tune of 1.4 billion euros against the 0.6 billion foreseen in the law of amending finances, and finally – a first in 30 years! – the lack of openings and cancellations of appropriations by pre-order in 2018. Anyway, everything's fine in the best of the worlds. But looking closer, the landscape is obviously less idyllic. Expenditure continues to grow, albeit at a slow pace. More serious, for the first time since 2014 and after three years of quasi-stability, the government's budget deficit increased from €67.7 billion in 2017 to €76 billion in 2018, or 23.4% of the general budget's net expenditure compared to 21% in 2017. While revenues were stable, the spending of ministries grew by 1.4 billion euros, and twenty of the twenty-nine missions in the general budget saw their consumption of appropriations increase. I will cite just one example, which I have already had the opportunity to mention at the first reading. The implementation of the "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" mission was once again marked by the increase in asylum applications in 2018, with the clear result of an increase in the asylum-seeker's allowance. The appropriations for this mission had been significantly increased in the initial finance law for 2018, at a rate of +10.3% in commitment authorities and +25.8% in payment appropriations. Yet this is still not enough! This is not surprising, as you base your spending projections on largely undervalued claims expectations. According to the final figures published by the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons (OFPRA), more than 123,000 people applied for asylum in France in 2018, an increase of 22.7% compared to 2017. However, according to the Court of Auditors, you are planning the expenditure on asylum-seekers' allowances on the basis of "optimistic" assumptions, in his words, but which, in the light of the data available in this field, seem rather totally insidious. Of course, and it is still the Court of Auditors that asserts this, this underestimation of assumptions and this constant increase in asylum applications create "a risk of budgetary unsustainableness of the mission". In fact, your programming for 2019 foresees an exceedance of the ceiling of 201.7 million euros at constant scope. But again, your estimate is based on an assumption of growth in zero claims, while the latest figures provided by OFPRA reveal that since January 1, 2019, 41000 claims have already been registered, an increase in total first claims of 6.2% in four months. Totally unrealistic assumptions, therefore, and which cast a great deal of doubt on your good faith! In summary, France's revenue is not sufficient to cover its expenditure. Specifically, they cover only nine months of government spending. Moreover, the divergence with our neighbours is continuing: our government deficit stood at 2.5% of GDP in 2018, while the rest of the euro area is in balance. As far as debt is concerned, it is no better: the French debt ratio is for the first time higher than that of the rest of the euro area, outside Germany. So, how do you do it? I looked forward to the findings of Joël Giraud's tax enforcement report and his study of the 472 tax niches. The result is disappointing. While these niches cost our public finances some EUR 100 billion a year, I was struck by our colleague's denouncing the opacity of the executive in this area, and even its inconclusiveness. I can only approve it. As the President of the Tax Circle, Philippe Bruneau, explains, it is not a plank that is necessary to deal with the issue of tax niches, but a large household, that is, an assessment of the impact of each niche on the community. This is the minimum condition for determining whether a niche is good for the community or not, he adds: there is no half measure. Do you have to want it again?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u72	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u73	I now call the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u74	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u75	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1018.u76	Next sitting, Tuesday, 23 July, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Vote by public vote on the CETA ratification bill; Discussion at second reading of the proposal for a law to create a similar right for news agencies and press publishers; Discussion of the draft law on the modernization of the distribution of the press. The meeting is adjourned.
