ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began its examination of the appropriations for the mission "Official Development Assistance" and the special account "Lending to foreign States" (No. 2301, Annex 6; No. 2303, Volume III). We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is two minutes each. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u3	The commitment of the President of the Republic to raise official development assistance – ODA – to 0.55% of French gross domestic product by 2020 is a limited ambition. Our European neighbours are doing much better than we are, like Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Luxembourg, which, since 2005, have spent at least 0.7 per cent of their gross national income annually on official development assistance. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) calls for an increase of €6 billion by 2022, or just over an additional $1 billion each year. We're way out of line! Our humanism should prevail over accounting strategies. At the beginning of the month, in Lyon, while France was organizing the sixth replenishment conference of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the President of the Republic announced an increase of 15 per cent in France's contribution to the Fund. What a disappointment, especially for non-governmental organizations and associations! I was in Lyon, they told me of their disarray and their incomprehension. This decision is your responsibility. Five hundred million euros less represents an additional 340,000 deaths. We could stop these pandemics, which are not fatalities, if we showed good will and political determination – they would not suffice, I grant you. But the figures, eloquently speaking, are revolting: 800,000 people died of AIDS last year, 37.9 million people still live with the virus today, 10.4 million people suffer from tuberculosis and 1.7 million die every year. A child under the age of 5 dies of malaria every two minutes! Minister, what is the government waiting for to live up to these challenges?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u5	Congressman, you were in Lyon, I was in Lyon, too. However, I have the impression that we have not heard the same things, which surprises me. France took the initiative to organize this replenishment conference of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria because no other country wanted to take responsibility for it. We did so with the goal of raising $14 billion. We did it! Perhaps you did not hear the same figures as I did, but, at the end of the meeting, all the contributions were collected, for an amount of exactly $14.02 billion. France's contribution is 20% higher, not 15%, as you said, than its previous contribution. I therefore do not understand your question, unless it only intends to rejoice together because these funds, redistributed appropriately, will enable the fight against these unbearable pandemics to be pursued effectively, with the aim of eradicating them by 2030. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The meeting fulfilled its promises and the financial results are on hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u6	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u7	The Interdepartmental Committee on International Cooperation and Development of 8 February 2018 set priorities for official development assistance: strong sectoral priorities – climate, health, education, addressing vulnerabilities and crisis prevention, gender equality – and geographic choices, focused on Africa in general, as well as 19 priority countries and countries in crisis. I have no doubt that they will continue to be pursued under your leadership, minister. We must indeed honour those commitments. Thus, in accordance with the commitments you made last year, this budget guarantees the rebalancing of the main themes, actors, beneficiaries and instruments of our official development assistance, so that our solidarity action can better meet our political priorities. On the one hand, we have made a significant effort in favour of international organisations and non-governmental organisations – NGOs. On the other hand, we have favoured the instruments directly available for the diplomatic network by increasing humanitarian aid and the financing of funds managed by our ambassadors. So, what flexibility do you give embassies to carry out these cooperation projects through solidarity funds for innovative projects? Can you give us concrete examples of the use of these funds and how they complement the action taken by the Agence française de développement on the ground?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u8	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u9	That is true, the significant increase of €36 million in the resources allocated to solidarity funds for innovative projects – FSPI – is a novelty of this finance bill for 2020. Ambassadors can use these FSPIs directly to quickly finance concrete projects, in line with the commitments made by the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou and in addition to the action taken by the Agence française de développement – AFD. These funds are often used to initiate projects, with AFD taking over funding. The scheme allows funds to be made available very quickly. In Madagascar, for example, in the field of vocational training, we contribute by the FSPI to the professionalisation of the training offer, and then we participate, through AFD, in the creation of a school of alternating engineers. This is an example of a good articulation, but I could also mention an urban agriculture project in Bamako or a project to support the actions of civil society in Niger in order to strengthen the economic empowerment of women. These often modest projects, between €500,000 and €1 million, have a significant impact. They allow for the initiation of longer-term actions of AFD. These devices allow us to manage situations with pragmatism and to react quickly, through embassies. This is a significant inflection of our policy. I hope I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u10	I call the appropriations of the "Official Development Assistance" mission, entered in statement B. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 622 and 980. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 622.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u11	This amendment tends to redeploy part of the significant increase of more than €3 billion in commitment authorisations compared to the 2019 Finance Bill. Most of the average increase of almost €3 billion in the commitment appropriations of the Official Development Assistance mission compared to 2019 will not be for bilateral project aid but for economic and financial assistance, i.e. mainly for loans that favour emerging, more profitable and more secure countries than heavily indebted poor countries. This amendment therefore aims to partially restore project aid to its 2019 level by allocating the EUR 100 million originally earmarked for the "Economic and Financial Aid for Development" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u12	Amendment No 980 by Mr Michel Vialay is being defended. The next speaker is Mr Vincent Ledoux, alternate Mr Marc Le Fur, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u13	The special rapporteur whom I am replacing, Mr Le Fur, shares the two points that you make: our aid does not benefit the poorest countries enough and the project aid, entrusted to AFD, would decrease by 600 million euros, when we voted for an additional 1 billion in 2019. Mr. The Fur fully subscribes to the Government's two objectives of strengthening the bilateral channel of our aid and the share of the gift. Nevertheless, France has committed itself to contributing to the replenishment of the resources of important multilateral organizations, starting with the World Bank Group, amounting to €1.4 billion, but also the African Development Fund, amounting to €450 million. Of course this is not the bilateral channel, but these two institutions target the nineteen priority countries, better than our bilateral aid. This is why, in the draft finance bill for 2020, bilateral aid has been driven by the importance of multilateral commitments, especially since new multilateral initiatives have been launched, such as doubling the French contribution to the Green Climate Fund or initiatives to promote the digital and economic inclusion of women in Africa. The Special Rapporteur would prefer us to remain faithful to the path set out in 2018, but your amendment would mean going back to France's important international commitments, which he does not want. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u14	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 623.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u15	This amendment tends to abound and increase the allocation of official development assistance through civil society organizations, including non-governmental organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u16	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u17	The minister spoke at length about this earlier: doubling the share of our official development assistance transiting through NGOs between 2017 and 2022 is indeed an objective of the Government. This channel is particularly useful in strengthening our bilateral aid, in grants or grants, while we still use concessional loans too often. In fact, historically, the functioning of AFD is close to that of a bank. The Special Rapporteur observed an encouraging path. Between 2015 and 2018, the share of French bilateral aid passing through NGOs increased from 3.6% to 6.6%, from 169 million euros to 371 million euros. In this period, the amount of aid will have more than doubled and this dynamic will have to be maintained. As you said, France is still lagging behind, with on average the share of bilateral aid passing through NGOs in the OECD reaching 14%. Nevertheless, the Government is determined and the funds allocated to NGOs increase by 12 million between 2019 and 2020. The Committee on Finance has delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u18	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 1008.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u19	This amendment warns you of the growing link between official development assistance and immigration. I have already raised this problem. In his address to the National Assembly on 7 October, the Prime Minister suggested that official development assistance should be conditional on the good conduct of the countries from which the main migratory flows would originate: "It is logical that we expect States that we support through official development assistance, a high degree of cooperation in controlling illegal immigration". "Development assistance must be mobilized to support our migration strategy," he said, two days later, in the Senate. However, this project, which is supposed to contribute to controlling migratory flows, is a source of concern to NGOs which denounce the misappropriation of financial support for the poorest. CCFD-Terre solidaire considers that such an extremely shocking approach would lead to a change in the nature of official development assistance in order to make it a counterpart to the outsourcing of our borders. Indeed, respect for the mandate of official development assistance, which is in principle a tool for combating poverty and inequality, as well as assistance for economic and social development in the least developed countries, is at risk when it is used to serve a goal of controlling migratory flows. This drift, alas, is not new. For example, the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Africa is used to encourage aid recipient countries to pursue policies focused on managing flows, strengthening control, etc. The findings of the report of the NGO Global Health Action, which visited Senegal and Niger to take stock of this fund, are unequivocal: the approach is ineffective, both at the political and development level. In short, with this appeal amendment, which aims to transfer a symbolic euro in favour of these policies, we would like to draw your attention to the drift and denaturing of development aid policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u20	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u21	The Special Rapporteur would like to draw your attention to the fact that the links between migration and development aid policy are not limited to the repressive aspect alone. Many other levers allow for cross-cutting policies to accompany populations with positive effects. I am thinking in particular of the scheme of the OFII – Office français de l'immigration et de l'integration – aimed at young professionals who, in the framework of bilateral agreements, give these young people the benefit of the professional migratory circulation to which the President of the Republic is so attached and which offers them the opportunity to increase their range at home before returning to their country. Returning to borders is not a big word and can be accompanied by a real economic project. It happens that I have an assistant of Malian origin: when he will explain to people the operation of this policy, in their language and in their homes, they understand it and find in general that this device is of real interest, that it allows a valuing of their skills and brings true human wealth. So it's not all to throw away, far away. In addition, many levers can be used in the event of a humanitarian crisis. This draft budget provides for a significant increase in the Ministry's emergency aid appropriations and contributions to United Nations agencies dealing with this issue. The sharp increase in food aid follows the same pattern. But ODA must also address the root causes of migration. Because some, I remind you, are taking advantage of this market. I am sorry to mention, at this late hour, the case of my parliamentary assistant whose brother, who was a father of the family and in the third year of medicine, lost his life in the Mediterranean. He had been caught by smugglers from the same village as him. We must fight vigorously against the causes of this great crime, this banditry. I would therefore like to separate the two subjects that you have just linked, Mrs. Autain. The Committee did not consider this amendment, and the Special Rapporteur delivered an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u22	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u23	Let us be clear: official development assistance has its own purpose, which I recalled during the debate on the migration policy of France and Europe which took place here. This aim is to combat inequalities and contribute to the development of countries. ODA is therefore essential to address the root causes of destabilization that affect our partner countries and threaten their development processes. At the same time, it can provide a lever for migration dialogue with developing countries. As you may recall, I said in this debate that no one leaves his country and his own country with joy in an attempt to cross the Mediterranean on a makeshift boat. No one! This is the first of the tragedies. We must therefore help these potential migrants to find opportunities, including economic opportunities, where they live. It is in this sense that ODA can also be a lever to combat unwanted migration. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u24	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u25	I do not want to reopen the debate on immigration issues here. But believing that ODA will help stem immigration is a decoy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u26	That's what I just said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u27	On the contrary, the more developed countries, the more they want to trade. It was necessary to stop thinking that devoting significant resources to ODA would put an end to trade. I have always been troubled to hear, in the debates on immigration, this reasoning that all experts consider to be heresy. I would therefore like to recall that ODA is aimed at combating poverty and that it is to be distinguished from migration issues. These are part of the exchange, or even the reception, of people in great difficulty who suffer, but they are completely separated from ODA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u28	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u29	Minister, if it is to say that ODA contributes to developing the economic conditions for peace in a country to ensure that its people do not want to flee, then everything is fine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u30	That's what I just said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u31	But that's not exactly what I'm talking about. I am talking about money spent on reception centres and targeted policies targeting migrants. The subject is therefore not quite the same: there is a misappropriation of development aid funds in favour of a certain type of policy, which many NGOs rightly denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u32	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u33	It seems to me that the Prime Minister, the Minister and the majority have been clear: no one wants to use ODA as a means of reducing immigration. We only see that, if we are to combat inequalities and poverty in these countries and answer the only valid question, that is, how to allow people to live with dignity, we must fight the root causes of immigration. This requires the allocation of significant resources to education, training and employability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u34	And border control!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u35	This is what we have been doing for the past two years by redirecting considerable resources towards education, training and employability, which had not been done in ten years. In the next twenty years, more than 350 million young Africans will be on the labour market: their unsurpassable horizon cannot be the crossing of the Mediterranean! If we want a relevant and effective policy, we must act on the causes that drive these people to leave. That is why, when a long-term development policy is pursued, we cannot completely ignore the issue of migration and its causes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u37	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 1011.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u38	This is again an appeal amendment, which aims to underline our concern about the place of Proparco in official development assistance. Among the intervention expenditure, the loan subsidies in foreign states are partly managed by this subsidiary of the Agence française de développement, dedicated to the support of the private sector. In 2018, more than 3 billion non-concessional loans were granted, notably by Proparco. However, the functioning of this agency, which is responsible for financing and supporting projects by companies and financial institutions in developing and emerging countries, is opaque.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u39	It's about loans, not official development assistance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u40	Indeed, despite its development mandate, this company acts like any private investor: guided by the profitability of its projects more than by their impact, it finances for example the extension of the power plant to gas from Azito, Côte d'Ivoire. This support for fossil energy seems to us to be at least incompatible with the Paris agreement. In addition, between 2007 and 2013, Proparco reportedly delivered more than $505 billion to developing countries through tax havens. According to Mediapart, this continued in 2017. Proparco is involved in the privatization of health and education, which is a major factor in increasing inequalities. As we have already told you in committee, Minister, greater transparency and readability of project selection criteria are necessary, as is the publication of a list of loan recipients. We will be considering a bill on official development assistance in 2020. At a time when France's objective is to significantly increase the funds it devotes to ODA, it is necessary to bring ODA to a halt in order to ensure the transparency of these agencies. This amendment removes 1 euro from the budget of the "Economic and Financial Aid for Development" programme in sign of disapproval and concern for Proparco. We are not the only ones who have this concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u41	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u42	The Special Rapporteur stresses the importance of this tool, Proparco. It is not because he intervenes in the private market on private terms that he must be wary of it. Development also involves structuring local markets to facilitate or secure investment. Proparco will contribute in 2020 to the climate finance pact, which aims to green investments in developing countries. This compact involves the private sector, foundations and governments. An allocation is foreseen for this purpose in 2020, which will allow Proparco's first commitments to be "de-risked" in order to achieve a driving effect on companies. As this amendment has not been discussed in committee, the Special Rapporteur issues an unfavorable opinion in his personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u43	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u44	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u45	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u46	I thank the Special Rapporteur for his reply, which gave me the idea of perhaps requesting a committee of inquiry on Proparco.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u47	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No. 1012.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u48	It transfers 1 euro symbolic from programme 110 "Economic and financial aid for development" to programme 209 "Solidarity with developing countries". That is the substance of this amendment. Minister, there is no competition between us: it is a matter of mutual respect. My intervention earlier had a purely humanitarian purpose. I was in Kenya on a delegation of five Members from every bench. When I returned, I was asked if it was possible to organize a restitution conference in France. I asked that question. So we all have the same goal. What I heard in Lyon was that NGOs wanted to increase the French contribution by 25%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u49	No, it's 20 percent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u50	You've chosen 20%, that's good; the total is $14 billion, that's very good; But a goal is made to be exceeded. I wanted to put things in context.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u52	The repetition sets out the concept, Mr Larive, and it seems to me that the minister has already answered you in a satisfactory way earlier because you share the same objectives and the same laudable intentions. There is no reason to take the lead on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u54	Since the situation will improve, given that we have the means to respond to your request and that of national representation, the Special Rapporteur gives an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u55	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to support Amendment No. 1013.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u56	At the G7 summit, Emmanuel Macron announced the doubling of the French contribution to the Green Climate Fund, which represents 2 billion euros. However, with €1.238 billion in grants and €310 million in loans, the account is not there. Moreover, the French contribution is not entirely made of donations. And, with regard to com' blows, I recall that Bruno Le Maire had announced on this occasion that the end of public coal guarantees would be voted in the 2020 budget: this measure, announced by François Hollande in 2015, has already been in force for four years, but let's go... The Green Fund can well double: as long as EUR 112 billion of annual fossil energy subsidies continue to be paid across the European Union, its budget will not bear the brunt. Overall, in 2016, approximately $825 billion was invested in fossil fuels and sectors generating high greenhouse gas emissions. France continues to finance climate-incompatible sectors. The I4CE Institute – the Institute of Climate Economics – estimates that climate-friendly fossil investments exceeded €67 billion in 2018. By comparison, climate-friendly public and private investment reached $45.7 billion. Fifteen to 18 billion euros are missing in the French transition. The missing amounts are easy to find: I4EC has identified €16 billion in tax niches on the taxation of fossil fuels that benefit the polluting sectors. The Government must reform these niches because, while French funding for the energy transition is increasing, it represents only a drop of water. It is therefore the dwindling of climate-friendly international financing that must be targeted, in parallel with the increase in the Green Fund. The "greenwashing" which the Special Rapporteur spoke of earlier and which the President of the Republic often resorts to is obviously guilty. Investments supporting fossil fuels must be urgently tari and flows reoriented for a national ecological transition and genuine international solidarity. It was in this spirit that we tabled this appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u58	Is it the late hour that prompts us to tinker with the numbers? We'll try to restore them. It is indeed 1.5 billion commitment authorisations that are planned in 2020 in order to double the French contribution to the Green Climate Fund, taken on the budget mission and on the Solidarity Fund for Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u59	That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u60	This is a doubling: over the previous period, France's participation was around €770 million. There is a share of grants and a share of very concessional loans, which should not exceed 20 per cent of the total contribution. This is due to the nature of the resources of the Green Fund and not to France's choice. A development aid tool that devotes 80 per cent of its resources to donations is a valuable tool. Let us remember that France's aid consists of only 60% of donations: here we reach 80%. The doubling of France's contribution to the Green Climate Fund constitutes the bulk of our new commitments to official development assistance in 2020. That is why, while the committee has not considered this amendment, I am expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u62	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u63	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u64	We will have the opportunity to come back to this debate during the review of the policy and programming law. Mrs Autain, you are confusing everything, particularly with regard to Proparco, a group on which you have cast reproach when things are very clear. Financial reports have been published on Proparco and people you know who are on the AFD Board of Directors, such as Dominique Potier, can provide you with documents. You also said that the last G7 is a com' coup: no concrete decision would have been taken on development and the fight against climate change. However, very clear funding has been decided – you can ask our partners in developing countries – to fight deforestation. The doubling of the Fund was announced at the end of August. It has materialized, and France is the country that has contributed the most.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u65	They're publicity effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u66	These are facts. You mentioned Kenya, Mr. Larive. Who finances heavily the fight against climate change in Kenya, including a wind farm and the development of geothermal energy? It's AFD. This is especially Proparco. It is therefore not possible to claim that France is absent or that it does not make any effort when, in reality, its effort is constant in the fight against climate change and for adaptation. And, again about the coups de com ', the G7 also made it possible to realize the AFAWA – Affirmative finance action for women in Africa: France will contribute 25 million for the entrepreneurship of African women. You can't deny these facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u67	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u68	Even if the time is late, there is no debate on Green Fund figures. The subject is the comparison of Green Fund figures with those of investment in fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u69	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u70	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] No, it's reality! I am well aware that, in your majority, it is possible to deliver major speeches on the Paris Agreement and then to adopt the CETA agreement, which is climate-delighting. I know it's possible to do this in Macronie. On the other hand, in real life, the "at the same time" is a real problem: we cannot "at the same time" create a very small Green Fund and put much more money to finance projects that do not correspond to the objectives of the energy transition. [[Michel Larive applauds]] That's what I'm talking about. You can find the late hour: even at that time, I can see clearly about your policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u71	We turn to two amendments to the additional article before Article 73, which are attached to the mission. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 199.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u72	It seeks to request the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the amount of official development assistance granted to countries that do not issue consular passes requested by the French authorities. Mr. Prime Minister, in the recent debate on immigration, and you yourself, Mr. Minister, have repeatedly stressed that the Government is more interested in linking official development assistance to cooperation on migration. We agree with this concern. That is why we would like to see a tool of appreciation and guidance that allows national representation to ensure better control of the official development assistance mission in this area. In a recent interview with current Values, the President of the Republic again addressed the issue of the insufficient issuance of consular passes, particularly in view of the very large number of obligations to leave French territory which, although pronounced, are not carried out. This possible conditionality of the aid, which we wish to carry out, will not suddenly fall as an axe on all forms of aid. There would be no question, for example, of questioning aid to non-governmental organizations. But we would like to see some insight into direct budgetary aid, loan subsidies and all the instruments directly managed by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u73	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u74	The Finance Committee has not considered this amendment. I'm just pointing out that Mr. Le Fur is a co-signatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u76	It is unfavorable, first of all, because this report that you are asking for on the application of the official development assistance scheme, which would allow the legislator to better control this mission, already exists. Every two years a report is published on the implementation of the French development aid strategy. I invite you to consult him: the last one came out just before the summer. There is also a cross-cutting policy document on development policy, annexed to the draft finance law, which gives you a comprehensive view of France's commitments, integrating the twenty-four budget programmes contributing to French development policy. You are insisting on strengthening consular passes – and I am a supporter of that. The discussion we have with the many States concerned is essential. The number of consular passes issued has increased significantly since we decided to support these requests and to have a constructive dialogue with the countries concerned. Evolution is pretty good. On the other hand, I am not in favour of establishing a link between official development assistance and the number of consular passes: the populations concerned would then be subjected to a double penalty. That does not prevent me from being in favour of advertising the two indicators you have requested.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u77	I call Mr Julien-Laferrière, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to support Amendment No. 1330.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u78	The Special Rapporteur recalled the French contribution to the major development banks, including the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. As you know, France occupies a prominent place in these institutions and devotes significant financial resources to them. On the occasion of the Financial Amendment Act for 1998, Parliament had requested the Government to submit an annual report on the activities of these major development banks. However, these provisions were repealed in 2014. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has therefore adopted this amendment to re-establish this annual report, so that parliamentarians can be informed about the use of these important appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u80	It is a recurring tendency in these debates to ask for greater readability of the sums that we pay to the major international organizations. Good! France finances the World Bank to the tune of 1.4 billion over three years, which is not nothing. It seems essential for parliamentarians to have more information on how these considerable sums are allocated. This report, which would be presented before the end of June, will inform us well in advance of the budget discussion and allow us to strengthen the follow-up of these organizations. Although the amendment has not been discussed by the committee, I am therefore expressing a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u82	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u83	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u84	This amendment introduces the question of the evaluation of international organizations – that was also the issue raised by Mrs Autain – and the creation, perhaps in the context of the policy and programming bill, of an independent evaluation commission. Such a commission will bring together within the same body all the human resources assigned to this evaluation work, in terms of impact, effectiveness and efficiency, in order to avoid the fragmentation and perpetuation of myths or confusion. What is most important for national representation is that the findings and recommendations of the evaluation are monitored by the Government and Parliament in order to serve as a useful tool for transforming AFD, international organizations such as the World Bank or the Green Fund, and all organizations benefiting from public money. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We can only support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u85	Mrs Bérengère Poletti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u86	The Republican Group is obviously in favour of this amendment. We have had this debate in committee, particularly with regard to the relationship between multilateral aid and bilateral aid. It is desirable to increase bilateral aid a little further, while continuing to increase multilateral aid. However, despite what has been announced, this year the increase in multilateral aid is greater.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u87	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u88	The increase was to benefit two thirds of bilateral aid and one third of multilateral aid. The question is the deficit of France's presence in multilateral organizations. Other countries have been far more successful than we have been. Every time we increase our participation in multilateral funds, we must be concerned about how France can influence decisions to promote its values within these bodies. [[Mr. Jean François Mbaye applauds]] That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs is considering a second step towards establishing a mission on this specific subject in order to gain a better understanding of the various multilateral funds in which we participate and the way in which we exercise our presence there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u89	I call the credits from the special account "Lending to foreign states", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have completed the review of the appropriations for the Official Development Assistance Mission and the Special Account for Loans to Foreign States.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u91	We deal with the examination of the appropriations of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" and of the special account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector" (No. 2301, Annex 30; No 2302, Volume III; No 2303, Volume VIII). Mrs Marie-Ange Magne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u92	The draft finance bill – PLF – for 2020 reflects the Government's priorities: to ensure access to quality information throughout the country, to support creative sectors and to unite cultural and creative industries, but also to support the transformation of the public audiovisual sector to adapt it to changes in both technologies and uses. All funding from the Media, Books and Cultural Industries Mission and the "Advances to Public Audiovisual" financial support account reached €4.3 billion in 2020, of which 86% is allocated to the public audiovisual sector. The appropriations for the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" thus stood at €591 million for 2020, up 2% from 2019. On the one hand, this increase reflects the State's willingness to support and support a troubled press sector. After an increase of €2 million in 2019 and successive cash advances, the Government has chosen to increase the subsidy paid to Agence France-Presse by €6 million, part of which will finance the transformation plan it has undertaken. It should be noted that the press aid scheme remains stable compared to 2019, with the exception of postal transport aid, which is part of the "Economy" mission, which is down by €8 million. As such, I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the need for a comprehensive strategic reflection on the policy of supporting the press sector, including public support for postal transport. On the other hand, the 2020 budget is marked by the creation of the National Music Centre – CNM – which will replace the National Centre for Song, Varieties and Jazz and will then aggregate several other organizations. To finance it, the Government has planned the inclusion of a new allocation of €7.5 million in 2020: this is a strong signal towards the first cultural practice of French and the second cultural industry. In the long run, this funding should be increased to €20 million per year, as our colleagues Pascal Bois and Émilie Cariou recommended in their pre-figuration report, submitted at the end of 2018. In committee, the Minister of Culture made a clear commitment on this point, in order to reassure the sector on a rise in resources over three years. This structuring project for the French music industry must enable an ambitious and strategic direction of musical policy in France. With regard to the financial support account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector", the year 2020 is the second year of the savings plan for public audiovisual companies, which saw their total net allocation decrease by 70 million to 3.7 billion euros. To the extent that the reform of the taxes allocated to the CNC – the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image – results in a reduction for the public audiovisual channels estimated at 20 million euros, the net effort requested is actually around 50 million. This effort is mainly carried out by France Télévisions, then Radio France and the Institut national de l'audiovisuel – INA. By 2022, it is expected that the allocation to public audiovisual companies has decreased by 190 million compared to 2018, in order to contribute to the effort to reduce public expenditure. I would therefore like to welcome the structural changes undertaken by public audiovisual companies in response to the many challenges facing the sector, in a constrained budgetary context. In order to maintain a downward trend in the allocation to public audiovisual companies, the contribution to the public audiovisual sector – CAP – which has been the only channel for public financing in the sector since 2019, will be reduced by 1 euro in 2020. I regret that the report requested by the Government under section 296 of the original 2019 Finance Act, which deals with CAP reform tracks, has not yet been submitted to Parliament. In the context of abolishing the housing tax, to which it is backed, and of changing usages, and while an ambitious reform of the public audiovisual sector is planned for the first half of 2020, I believe that this decrease in CAP demonstrates the relevance of the debate we must have on its transformation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, this 2020 budget must be linked to the ambitious legislative reforms already undertaken and to come. It is a budget that aims to accompany and support all these sectors – media, books, cultural industries and public audiovisual – in their necessary adaptation to a changing environment. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to adopt this 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u93	Mrs Céline Calvez, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u94	It is more than twenty-two hours, on the eve of Toussaint: we could dream of a better niche to talk about credits so important for our cultural sovereignty. But we are here, and I am pleased to see that many colleagues are still present in the Chamber. These credits deserve our full attention and we can be proud of what we are doing in this exercise of the PLF to serve our cultural sovereignty. 2020 will be a pivotal year for all media, book, cultural and audiovisual players. The year 2019 had been marked by a very sustained legislative activity, notably with the law to create a similar right for news agencies and press publishers and the law on the modernization of the distribution of the press. So in 2019, we laid the foundation that will be used in 2020 to support the reforms in perspective for all stakeholders. That is why the PLF that you have presented to us, Minister, is of particular importance this year. First of all, with regard to the press, the budget accompanies the indispensable transformation of the sector, in particular, we have already stressed, by giving additional resources to the transformation of the Agence France-Presse, or by renewing the special aid to Presstalis, which plays a particular role in the press ecosystem. Music is also a real priority of the Government. This year has finally been laid the legislative basis of the National Music Centre. Thanks to the PLF, it will be endowed with €7.5 million in additional resources, which will enable us to focus on creation but also to accompany the internationalisation of our talents. This is supported not only by the provisions in the budget, but also by the tax credits, recognised for their ability to accompany our phonographic production. We will also be able to question the criterion of la francophonie – we will probably have discussions on this issue in the coming days, in order to make the tax credit for phonographic production even more relevant. With regard to the appropriations for the policy of support for cultural industries, attention must also be paid to the provisions of the PLF which are in the direction of transformation. I am thinking here of the reform of the taxes allocated to the CNC. Even if it is not the appropriations entered in the mission that we are dealing with, this reform contributes to a rebalancing of value-sharing in the cultural industries sector. A rate of 5.15% is unanimous among all actors, even if there are questions about predictability, the way in which the reductions will be experienced, and the actors involved. In any event, for 2020, things are now clearly set. On the other hand – I want to go beyond the scope of the mission to show our commitment to the cultural industry – video game is our first cultural industry. In fact, the minister visited Paris Games Week very recently. We help the cultural video game industry through credits, but also through tax credits, which must be stressed once again the importance and decisiveness of this sector, of which France is one of the leaders. The second part of my report is devoted to public broadcasting. I would like to point out that, while the savings requested from the public audiovisual sector are significant, they are, it must be stressed, in a budget path that is respected. Contrary to what happened before, when the trajectory could be called into question every year, our fiscal savings trajectory offers visibility and predictability to the actors, so that they can engage in the reforms necessary for the transformation of the audiovisual sector. However, it calls for a question: how can we, as parliamentarians, be sure of the reality of this transformation and of how savings are achieved? During our hearings, we were alerted to the fact that some savings were made on broadcast channels or programs. I am concerned about this, because for me, the economies must be the result of structural reforms. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] One last word: I think we can be pleased because for the first time, in this 2020 budget, the savings requested from the public audiovisual sector have a concrete translation for households, with a reduction in the amount of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector. Of course, it is weak, but it inaugurates a real paradigm shift. That is why I invite you to approve these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u95	Mr Alain David, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u96	The French audiovisual industry in the world, based on France Médias Monde, France 24, Radio France internationale – RFI –, Monte Carlo Doualiya – MCD –, Arte France and TV5 Monde, presents specific features and carries strategic and regal stakes that must be taken into account and, as a result, be subject to a specific and adapted regime. The preliminary draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age aims to adapt the law on freedom of communication of 30 September 1986 to the changes in the audiovisual sector and to the new challenges which characterize it. While it places France's external audiovisual action as one of the public service missions to be undertaken by public audiovisual companies, it integrates France Médias Monde into a holding company that will also include France Télévisions and Radio France. This integration can lead to synergies and leverage in the means implemented. However, in order to respond to the fundamental stakes attached to French audiovisual action in the world, it must provide guarantees of taking into account the specificities of the latter. Because for now, it inspires us the most serious concerns. The strategic priorities of the external audiovisual sector largely overlap with the priorities of our external action, the influence of France as a whole and our official development assistance. Particular attention is thus paid to Africa, the Near and Middle East, which, like the Maghreb, are among the strategic priorities of France Médias Monde. In a context that many observers describe as a war of information, and which sees some of France's competitors adopting offensive strategies ranging from a significant increase in resources to the dissemination of radical or anti-European discourses, the external audiovisual is more than ever the voice of France: not of France as a State, but of the values promoted by the whole of French diplomacy. It will be important to ensure that the role of the external audiovisual sector is taken into account in the fight against misinformation. In the world, French audiovisual is a tool for promoting Francophones and multilingualism. The Western media face common challenges: disinformation, the emergence of state and non-state actors calling for the development of audiovisual cooperation. The positioning of the external audiovisual channels favours the development of European and international cooperation, which define the project of these channels. In the face of the risk that the external audiovisual sector will become the adjustment variable of the public audiovisual sector, the resources allocated will have to be preserved. Based on what has been introduced for BBC World Service within the BBC, a floor amount of the public audiovisual contribution allocated to France Médias Monde should be defined on a multi-year basis, in absolute terms or in percentages. The governance of the future holding company will have to be adapted to international challenges. With regard to the budget allocated to France Médias Monde for 2020, the amount allocated to the external audiovisual sector is decreasing significantly, down from the choices made by our main competitors. Indeed, France Médias Monde's allocation, which includes France 24, RFI and MCD, stands at 255 million euros, down 1 million from 2019 and 10 million from the trajectory initially set out in the Group's target and means contract, which was completely revised in the summer of 2018. Let's have a few numbers. In 2019, BBC World, often cited as a model, had a budget of 430 million euros and Deutsche Welle had a budget of 350 million. After falling by €1.2 million last year, TV5 Monde's allocation has stabilised to €76 million by 2020. In the face of this gap between strategic stakes and resources, we express an unfavourable opinion on the appropriations devoted to the external audiovisual sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u97	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u98	The review of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" is part of a very rich legislative context: we have passed the law establishing a neighbouring right for publishers and news agencies, the law of modernization of the distribution of the press and the law establishing the CNM, and we will discuss in the first half of 2020 the much-anticipated reform of the audiovisual sector. We were astonished to hear Google announce that it would deliberately circumvent the neighbouring right, I would like to remind you here. This measure of justice, however, allows for a better distribution of the wealth produced in the press sector. You denounced Google's statements, minister, that they were inadmissible. Because this law is the partial transposition of the European directive on copyright and related rights, the UDI, Act and Independent Group is convinced that this problem reveals, once again, our need for Europe. Minister, please know that you have our support for solutions to be found at European level in order to distribute more accurately the value produced. At each stage of the review of the law for the modernization of the distribution of the press, we recalled that it was essential that the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and Distribution of the Press – ARCEP – be given new means of regulating the sector. This is done in this finance bill, since it has obtained an additional 225,000 euros. Nevertheless, we will ensure that the Government continues this effort in order to enable ARCEP to develop its skills. We will therefore be careful to ensure that it benefits from the necessary resources in the coming PLFs. Our group would like to stress its particular commitment to cultural tax credits and in particular to the tax credit for phonographic production. After having experienced difficult years, the music sector returns to growth. It is in this context that the tax credit is more indispensable than ever. We therefore welcome your willingness to extend it. Personally, I will introduce an amendment introducing a theatre tax credit, the only creative cultural activity not to benefit from such an attractive scheme. In the interests of equal treatment, stimulation of the creation and development of new talent, it seems necessary to open this possibility to companies performing drama in order to preserve the diversity of the offer of creation of private theatre in a difficult context for the sector. We welcome the harmonization of the rates of taxes allocated to the CNC provided for in section 62 of the draft finance bill, which will help to reduce the tax gap between historical linear broadcasters and new players. We support this approach, which makes it possible to correct an asymmetry in competition caused by obsolete regulation. It will be a major issue in the reform of the audiovisual sector, which will occupy us in the coming months. I hope, moreover, that this reform will be an opportunity to rethink our public audiovisual model in order to give it the means to carry out its tasks of general interest: to inform, to educate and to entertain. In a difficult context, marked by a upheaval in the media and budgetary constraints, the public audiovisual sector must be transformed. The current multi-annual plan of savings is a complex but necessary task if we are to have strong ambitions for our public audiovisual service. In the debates on the reform of the audiovisual sector, our group will be vigilant on this point. He will also pay attention to the good representation of the overseas territories in the public audiovisual sector, in the wake of the signing of the pact for the visibility of these territories, which was signed on your initiative, Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] Turning to this exchange in a favourable way, our group will vote for the credits of the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u99	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u100	With regard to all the activities of this mission, I would first like to welcome the increase in the envelope to accompany the opening of libraries on Sundays and evenings. It is a real measure of artistic and cultural education, as well as a real support measure for local authorities. Having said that, I want to focus on two worrying points. We are proposing that the State allocate €7.5 million to the Centre national de la musique, presented as additional resources in addition to the other support, including €35 million from the tax paid by producers of shows. The NJC's constitution law was adopted in September 2019, referring to decrees on its governance and the modalities for granting aid. The Act was adopted following two reports. Ordered in June 2017 by your predecessor in Roch-Olivier Maistre, the first was handed over in October 2017, that is, two years ago. Ordered in May 2018 by Matignon to our colleagues Émilie Cariou and Pascal Bois, the second was presented in November 2018, i.e. a year ago. Catherine Ruggeri was again given a task of pre-figuration, which focused on the definition of the future aid architecture, which includes "financing better and more projects, to work more cross-cuttingly and to take into account new issues. » To date, no arbitration has been rendered when crucial issues arise. How is the switch from the National Variety Centre to the CNM, and thus the continuity of the aid schemes? How is this going to happen on 1 January 2020? How can we be assured that the NJC will now help projects more and better than the existing arrangements to date? Indeed, the question of the existence of extra-sectoral means, which were mentioned in the two reports commissioned, continues to arise, and the question of the reality of the new means allocated to the projects continues to arise. In his report for opinion, our colleague Céline Calvez wrote: "As the missions of the future NJC are broader than those of the current organizations, it will eventually benefit from 111 FTEs, an increase of 18 FTEs over the existing one. » There will therefore indeed be an increase in operating costs which, in the light of the budgetary blue, will be borne by the operators and will therefore weigh on the current resources. These are all resources that cannot be allocated to projects and businesses, not to mention the need to take over new and undefined tasks to date. As is now known, mergers always lead to a decline in resources for the people concerned and to a recovery, far from the realities of those closest to the ground. As for the public audiovisual sector, it is asked to save €70 million, or 60 million less funding by CAP, amounting to €3.246 billion, and to reduce the State's compensation for exemptions and allowances granted to certain households. If natural slides and digital redeployments are added, operators will have to make a double or even triple effort. In June 2018, when the path of savings to be achieved by 2022 was stopped, I already had the opportunity to say that the budget cuts, mergers and switchovers to the digital whole will not allow to strengthen and improve the supply of public service. Transformation costs money before opening up room for manoeuvre. This year, I wanted to focus on the external audiovisual sector. Like the draftsman Alain David, I note a significant gap between the ambitions shown and the means allocated to achieve the objectives. As part of the finance bill for 2020, France Médias Monde will have an allocation of 260.51 million euros, down by more than 1 million compared to 2019. Counting the €3 million of additional expenditure needed to preserve the existing one, it will therefore be necessary to find €4 million. France Médias Monde's missions will be directly affected by the savings requested. France Médias Monde, however, contributes to the stabilization of areas of tension and to France's international security policy objectives. France Médias Monde is a true promoter of the Francophonie in a plurilingual world. France Médias Monde is committed to young generations in Africa. France Médias Monde promotes culture in the face of the rise of radical and sectarian modes of thought. France Media World is committed to Europe. France Médias Monde is engaged on the American continent, especially in Latin America. The results and the hearings are here. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] At the time of the CAP's symbolic reduction of 1 euro, the stakes are not budgetary, it is political. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore deeply regrets these budgetary decisions, on the eve of the audiovisual reform which you will be presenting to us at the beginning of next year. We also regret that there has been no proposal for CAP reform, as such reform will become increasingly difficult as we approach the next election deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u101	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u102	On this occasion, I would like to alert you to the forthcoming reform of the audiovisual sector, which will organise a real break in the public service of the audiovisual sector. The institution created, France Médias, will bring together France Télévisions, Radio France, France Médias Monde and the Institut national de l'audiovisuel. It will be "a huge machine to save money and remove jobs again," says Marc Chauvelot, CGT representative at France Télévisions. The public audiovisual sector is already suffering from your budgetary austerity. Its credits are in free fall: they fell by 22 million euros in 2019, fell by 71 million in 2020 and will fall by 50 million in 2021. In total, 190 million euros will be confiscated from this public service between 2018 and 2022, in accordance with Bercy's injunctions and the Public Action 2022 process. For 2020, France Télévisions is heavily involved since you ask it to save 60 million euros. The budget cut will be 5 million for Radio France and 3.2 million for Arte. In total, by 2022, France Télévision will have to save 400 million euros, and Radio France 60 million. Our public audiovisual service also suffers from your social breakdown objectives in the sector: 2000 fewer posts in France Télévisions, and between 170 and 390 posts abolished at Radio France by 2022. The weekly Telerama lists 500 volunteer candidates at the start, 300 of whom are from France 3. By the end of 2019, almost 60 people will be gone, most of them for early retirement, without being replaced. The dismantling of this public service also involves the outright suppression of some of its channels, notably France 4 and France Ô. Delete France 4, it is transforming users of the audiovisual public service into consumers of Disney products, since the American group intends to launch a platform for the young French public in 2021. Currently, France 4 offers free programs for children. Focused mainly on this channel, they do not require a large internet connection or even an internet subscription. In the future, the youth offer of the public audiovisual service will be scattered on three channels and on a public platform for which a high-performance internet connection will be required. Deleting France Ô, then, demonstrates the lack of consideration given to our ultramarine fellow citizens. Many of them, however, follow the programmes broadcast on this channel. These decisions concerning the public audiovisual sector are not just losers: private groups are delighted. Your consumer bill plans to allow a third cut of advertising in the same film. During sporting events, advertising may occupy part of the screen. Spots will be adapted according to the location of the viewer or listener. TF1 and M6 thank you: they dreamed of it, you did! We have every reason to fear that this reform will be a first step towards the pure and simple privatisation of the public service of the audiovisual sector. Will France Télévisions join the French Games and Paris Airports among the list of public goods that you give to the private sector? The functioning of France Médias is dangerously close to that of a private company. It will have a five-year Board of Directors, which will appoint its President and CEO. Of the nine members who will elect the future President of France Médias, three will be representatives of the State, two will be qualified personalities appointed by the State and one will be a member of parliament from the majority: both directly entrust the presidency of France Médias to you or to the President of the Republic, Minister! In the end, you reinvent ORTF, with a view to a total privatisation of the French audiovisual industry. Definitely, France will not vote for the budget appropriations for this mission, and we will fight firmly, as soon as the opportunity is given to us, the mortifying orientation that you give to the public service of the French audiovisual industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u103	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u104	In an information landscape where formats are multiplying, where immediacy has become the norm, in a world where false information is spreading more than ever, we have the greatest need for independent media, free and driven by the sole interest of transmitting quality information to all. Those men and women who exercise their profession as journalists rigorously and passionately must be freed from all kinds of pressures, especially financial pressures. In this troubled context for television, radio and the press, the public audiovisual sector must be exemplary: the place where we take the time of analysis, of hindsight, of background work; a place where citizens are addressed, not consumers. In order to do this, editorial staff need means, stability and a stronger identity. However, since the beginning of the quinquennium, the public audiovisual sector has suffered numerous financial cuts. This budget is a new example: the allocation for all public audiovisual groups will fall by €70 million in 2020. This is a decrease twice as much as that achieved in 2019. It is the result, in particular, of the reduction in the fee. The Communist MEPs warned about this measure which they considered too hasty by an amendment in the first part of the PLF which proposed that the amount of the fee should not be changed until the discussions on the financing of the public audiovisual sector culminated. The future reform of the public audiovisual sector will be an opportunity to discuss the future of the licence fee and its positioning in the face of new ways of consuming, particularly vis-à-vis video-on-demand platforms. Moreover, the reduction of 1 euro in the fee, which brings little purchasing power to the French, only throws a little more trouble on the orientations chosen for the future of the public audiovisual sector, whose financing must be guaranteed in the PLF as in the draft law on public audiovisual. France Télévisions is undergoing a new budget cut of €62 million. This is a major blow to the public audiovisual industry, after a decrease of 25 million in the PLF 2019. Retirements will therefore not be compensated. The downsizing, as the draftsman rightly points out, will have consequences for the nature of the programmes. For my part, I will go even further: it will affect the quality of the programmes. Radio France will have to give up €5 million by 2020, while its model is efficient and its stations are growing year by year. Human resources represent a substantial part of the company's expenses. Mechanically, the payroll will be the first victim of budget cuts. Between 270 and 390 posts could disappear. This plan of savings will further weaken the working conditions of Radio France employees, even though wages have been blocked for seven years and sick stops are on the rise. Moreover, all trade unions denounce the fact that this plan of savings has not been the subject of any consultation. I would also like to express my strong concern about the future of the AFP, which will lose 95 posts by 2023. Its future is at risk while its role is fundamental to the dissemination of information. Fragilizing the AFP is contradictory with the ambition of a complete and accessible information for all. This budget comes in advance of a bill concerning our public audiovisual service. The company will undergo a major overhaul with the creation, in 2021, of a holding company bringing together France Télévisions, Radio France, France Médias Monde and INA. What will happen to the identity of each channel, each editorial? How will funding be shared? Finally, the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" recorded a decrease in support for the press. In our view, this decline will be an additional handicap for a sector already in crisis. We believe that there is an urgent need to reform press aid and not to reduce it. We need to create a system of aid that is not discriminatory on the basis of the media. Information must be conceived as a common service, indispensable for the formation of political judgements. This requires public support, especially when information lives without the help of advertising. Speaking after the recent reform on the distribution of the press, this set of measures, which does not tackle media concentration and also does not strengthen the working conditions of journalists, gives cause for concern about the weakening of many titles. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote against this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u105	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u106	The "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission of the draft finance law for 2020 presents €11 million in increase over last year's current scope and we welcome this increase. The 180 "Press and Media" programme shows an increase of €4 million to support this sector, which is undergoing a deep crisis, linked to the digital transition and the structural decline of the readership. As such, the appropriations allocated to the AFP will increase by 4.5% compared to 2019: its current allocation is increased by 1.5 million euros and exceptional aid of 4.5 million euros is granted to support its transformation plan. This upgrading is essential, as AFP is a recognized player in information and the fight against false information. In the current context, this mission has become paramount. This year, we also acted in favour of news agencies and publishers by passing the law creating a neighbouring right, which should allow them to be paid more precisely when their content is used by a search engine or social network. But Google has decided to hijack this law. You have strongly condemned this threat, Mr.Minister and Mr. Chairman of the Commission, but Facebook has now followed him down and concerns remain strong. Among the other actions of this "Press and media" programme, we believe it is important to stress the stability of the aid for the dissemination of the press and the support for Presstalis, amounting to EUR 9 million. These credits refer to the adoption of the law on the modernization of the distribution of the press at the beginning of October, reforming the so-called Bichet law: the market for the distribution of the press must be better regulated; I note in this regard the transfer of new means to the Electronic Communications and Posts Regulatory Authority, ARCEP. Undeniably, the State accompanies the print press in its necessary transformation and supports its dissemination. It is important to remind him. With regard to programme 334 "Book and cultural industries", I welcome the allocation of €7.5 million to the future National Music Centre. This common house of music will structure, from 1 January next, the field of recorded music. Several entities are destined to join it. You have made a commitment, Minister, to ensure the continuity of the existing aid and its distribution arrangements, which is essential for the sector. It seems to me important to insist on this point. I will quickly mention the video game, which is one of the most important cultural industries. This sector, which accounts for almost €5 billion in turnover, benefits from a tax credit which we aspire to be sustainable, as do you, Minister. As the Paris Games Week is in full swing, I would like to allude to it. The resources allocated to the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector" will amount to €3.8 billion next year. In line with last year's transformation plan, public audiovisual companies will achieve €70 million in savings in 2020. In concrete terms, these savings will result in a reduction of 1 euro in the contribution to the public audiovisual sector for all households that owe it. The amount of this tax is reduced for the first time since its inception. While this decrease is symbolic, it demonstrates that the savings requested benefit all taxpayers. The appropriations presented today are in line with the agreed budgetary path, which responds to the necessary transformation of the public audiovisual sector. It will also be dedicated at the beginning of next year with the creation of the group France Médias, through the future bill on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. France Media and the ongoing redeployments must enable us to meet the ambition we have for the public service of the audiovisual sector: to refocus its missions in order to accentuate what makes it specific, in particular the cultural offer; ensure an offer that is open to all and that looks like the public, as well as reliable and demanding information; strengthen creative and digital investment. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Our group will vote for all the appropriations relating to the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" and to the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u107	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u108	We meet tonight to review the credits for the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission of the Finance Bill for 2020. The year 2020 will undoubtedly be a pivotal year for the media and cultural industries, as Ms Calvez wrote in her report: a year of challenges, ambitions and reforms. In order for these reforms to be carried out, it will be absolutely necessary to add the corresponding funding. It is a simple logic of public policy: one cannot always ask more with ever less means. Unfortunately, as in the financial laws for 2018 and 2019, the Government has again chosen a logic of planing, especially for the public audiovisual sector, after very late arbitrations. This year we are seeing a general decline: less 62 million euros for France Télévisions, less 5 million euros for Radio France, less 2 million euros for Arte, less 1 million euros for France Médias Monde and less 1 million euros for INA. Only TV5 Monde maintains a stable budget. We therefore look forward to the reform of the audiovisual sector today. However, how can we ensure that such a reduction in resources can be cushioned by the France Médias holding company without affecting the content and operation of the company? Let us doubt that. I also wanted to return, as every year, to the real sea serpent represented by the Copé tax, hijacked for years to the detriment of France Télévisions when it had been created to compensate for the abolition of evening advertising on the operator's channels. Minister, allow me to remind you of your old mobilization to restore the right role of the Copé tax. In November 2018, you again announced the misuse of this tax, calling for the resources created for the public audiovisual sector to be properly allocated to the audiovisual sector. You also rightly stressed: "The Copé tax has been diverted by the previous majority to the general state budget, which I have been strongly denouncing for years." You even evoked a scandal, before concluding: "When we explain to the French that we ask them for taxes to finance France Télévisions, the return of these taxes must go to the public audiovisual sector. » I find it hard to believe that you have been able to radically change your mind about this practice, which I also denounce. However, last year, you chose to permanently divert the proceeds of this tax to the state budget, to the detriment of France Télévisions, going even further than under François Hollande's quinquennium. How can you explain it? I also wanted to mention the creation of the National Music Centre, the CNM, which was expected by the players in the sector. We can only welcome the Government's decision to give it life and the unanimous vote on the bill on its creation. This project makes sense at a time when the French recorded music sector is returning to growth and needs support to strengthen its position in an ultra-competitive global market. The work of the CNM will be fundamental: its mission will be to consolidate the sector for the benefit of creation and cultural diversity. With regard to its financing, the shift of an additional €7.5 million to the CNM in commitment authorisations and payment appropriations for the year 2020, and the shift of €7.5 million in 2020 and €20 million in the PLF 2022, attest to the Government's commitment. However, we are still very far from the experts' recommendations for the new budget of this body – the Roch-Olivier Maistre report called for an amount of 40 million euros, and the Selles mission even advanced an amount ranging from 80 million to 100 million euros. However, the success of the NJC will certainly depend on the means allocated to it. With an insufficient budget, the institution will not be able to achieve its objectives or fulfil the tasks entrusted to it and which are intended to increase. I have tabled an appeal amendment to that effect: I hope that we can discuss it. On export, the challenge for the French musical community remains immense. In 2018, nineteen of the top twenty sales in our country were albums produced in France and sung in French; Of these 19 French artists, none are on the list of the twenty most listened to repertoires at the world level. The CNM will therefore need to strengthen and consolidate the economic model of the French music industry in order to include it among the world leaders. Existing public support schemes, such as the tax credit for phonographic production – CIPP – are working well and remain particularly useful to the sector. They are effective, at the service of the diversity of Francophone musical creation: the first figures of 2019 show the remarkable scores of new French talent, with thirty-eight albums produced in France in the top 200. Of these, 80% benefited from the CIPP, including Clara Luciani, Eddy de Pretto and Aya Nakamura, which marked the year. This tax credit is therefore virtuous; It must be sustainable because it promotes musical diversity by encouraging local artists. Finally, we regret the reduction in aid to the press and worry about the endless construction of the Richelieu quadrilateral. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In view of these many reservations, our group decided to abstain from the credits of the mission "Media, book and cultural industries".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u109	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u110	The budget of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries", examined at the same time as advances to the public audiovisual sector, is of particular importance in view of the ongoing changes in these sectors. First of all, I will mention the press sector, whose appropriations are backed up by the 180 programme. We have raised in committee the crucial issue of access to information and works of mind. It is a priority and a permanent challenge for democratic life, and we are grateful to the Ministry of Culture for working in this direction. With the reform of the Bichet law, our assembly has worked to ensure the future of the press and to guarantee its pluralism and distribution. The MODEM group has always invested in this subject. We welcome the work carried out in good intelligence with the various groups in our House. We are convinced that the text we recently voted on will help to stabilize aid to the press and ensure that its very necessary diversity is maintained. With regard to the cultural industry, we note with satisfaction that €8 million is allocated for the year 2020 to the National Music Centre. This centre has found its place, since its creation in our Chamber last month, next to the National Book Centre and the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image. The year 2020 will therefore be the year of its installation. The sector naturally expects a lot from this federating place. In fact, international competition is strong in this sector, and it is important that we give the institution the capacity to pool the levers of action, which have hitherto been somewhat dispersed, in favour of the music industry. Of course, we hear the concerns of the players in the sector about the amount allocated, which would be insufficient; However, this budget is on the increase and will, after a first financial year and an evaluation, be adjusted. However, let me warn you about the need to secure existing support schemes such as music tax credits or employment aid from the National Fund for Long-term Employment in Performing Arts, the FONPEPS, which the institution will have to manage. This security is the absolute condition for the CNM to support the investment of companies in the sector in local production and to make the French music industry one of the world leaders in the sector. As the latter is just beginning to recover, our responsibility is to ensure its development. I will have the opportunity to come back later in our exchanges, but I would like to remind you that other sectors benefit from this aid, particularly that of the book. I hope that this collective effort will continue in their favour. As far as public broadcasting is concerned, we naturally look forward to the discussion of the draft law on its transformation. We know that the stakes are plural. The future public hub of the audiovisual sector will hopefully see its resources strengthened. Above all, it will be important in the future for the State to fulfil its commitments to finance, so that we no longer find ourselves in a position to dejudge the pursuit of the various contracts of objectives and means with public companies. The latter have an absolute need for readability, for forecasting capacity, and the transformations we impose on them, although necessary, must also be done in confidence. The future France Médias Group will merge the budget lines of today's multiple channels. We want to be able to continue to have the elements of credit breakdown between the channels that will form the future group. The control of parliamentarians remains essential, in the wake of what we have been doing for several years now. For me, as for other speakers who have preceded me, the fate of our external audiovisual sector is a particular focus of attention, particularly in view of the importance of the Francophonie and the stakes of cinema for export. In this regard, we welcome the Government's willingness to support our outreach in the French-speaking world by maintaining the funds allocated to TV5 Monde. At a time when all chains are called upon to make savings, which bear fruit in terms of competitiveness, this is a positive and important signal. The French contribution to public broadcasting has certainly been reduced by one symbolic euro, but this gesture is in line with the general message addressed to the French with a focus on taxation, its fair measure and its fair use. As we can see, the various budgets of the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission come from sectors in the midst of transition. It is up to us to accompany them, as their contribution is essential to the development of our society. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u111	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u112	Contemporary history attests to the profound changes affecting culture, its modes of access and use. Some information is enough to convince yourself: 70% of book sales on the internet are made by Amazon; Netflix captures 70% of the market share of video-on-demand by subscription; Three-quarters of the download revenue is generated by iTunes and two-thirds of the music streaming revenue comes from Deezer and Spotify. In such a context, the legislator may monitor or regulate changes. The recent experience of Google's refusal to respect neighbouring rights demonstrates the urgent need to defend value producers and, more generally, to provide a modern response to all these issues. Similarly, the fight against the manipulation of information is imperative – and that is the meaning of the bill that we passed last year. In the face of these challenges, would it not be essential to allocate more resources to the press and the public service of the audiovisual sector? We believe so, as there is no doubt that these developments justify reforms, which themselves justify financing. Minister, the review of the finance bill is a moment of truth. But it must be noted that the budget you are presenting for the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" and the financial support account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector", which we are looking at tonight, does not rise to the level of the stakes, since the appropriations do not meet the expectations of the actors or the necessary profound changes in the sector. The French press is the first to suffer from this lack of momentum, which is the result of an inadequate budget. In this regard, press aid, which has already fallen by EUR 15 million since 2017, is the poor parent of the 180 "Press and Media" programme, even though it is a sector whose ecosystem is in crisis and which requires, more than ever, permanent support from the public authorities. The very worrying situation of Presstalis is an illuminating example of this. If we support the need to arm the AFP in the face of the ongoing changes, we regret, however, that this is done at the expense of all other actions in the programme. Moreover, by stabilising the euro, compared to the initial financial law for 2019, the actions "supporting the local media" and "supporting local radio expression", the Government hardly conceals its disinterest in the territories, which the citizens and we have repeatedly denounced. Finally, in this local dimension, how can we conceal the reduction of EUR 700000 in the appropriations for the "book and reading" action of programme 334, which undermines the role of bookstores, which are essential vectors of the dissemination of culture in the territories? Although their turnover has been stable for a decade, and their attractiveness is not at stake, as more and more young people join the profession, they struggle to make their jobs profitable and wages are too low compared to the skills required. To remain competitive, bookstores have come to reduce their teams and stocks, threatening their core business. Therefore, significant budgetary support would be required for them. With regard to the public audiovisual sector, we believe that the reduction of 1 euro in the TV charge provided for in this draft finance bill is totally demagogic, in any case completely inappropriate if we consider the challenges faced by the companies in the sector. Indeed, this decrease, equivalent to a purchase power gain of 8 cents per month for each French person liable to pay the tax, will result in a loss of nearly 30 million euros in the state funds. Let us doubt the efficiency of such a measure when, at the same time, you choose to reduce the appropriations allocated to the public audiovisual sector by EUR 70 million in 2020; you are asking the sector to make a considerable effort, to the tune of 190 million euros over the period 2018-2022. I come to the funding of the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image. Under the cover of a larger contribution requested from new digital players, you want to reduce the publisher tax for traditional players. For the latter, however, such a rebalancing is similar to a gift which will undoubtedly lead to a halt for French creation, since Dominique Boutonnat has already announced his willingness to save EUR 15 million on the CNC's missions relating to cinema. We're not fools. In the end, the budgets you are presenting to us are sorely lacking in ambition. They do not meet the challenges and objectives set. A few months from a public audiovisual reform that the Government promotes as a revolution, there's something to warn you about – that's what we're doing. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote against these credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u113	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u114	The Ministry of Culture has existed for sixty years. Sixty years he's acting. Sixty years when its ministers come to present the budget in this House, as I am doing tonight. Sixty years offer us the opportunity to reaffirm the need for an ambitious cultural policy. This is the will of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the entire Government. The Ministry of Culture must speak to all, in all territories, because culture emancipates and draws closer. It is what gives everyone the feeling of belonging to something greater than yourself; It is what makes us, in a certain way, gain access to the universal. It is an essential lever of jobs, activity, attractiveness and outreach for our country. It is a factor of social cohesion, of national cohesion. It's what brings us together, what holds us together. It is the cement of our society. However, today our society is facing a major change, that of the digital revolution, which upsets our relationship to information, to the press, to the media on the one hand, and to cultural practices on the other. At the same time as it brings new opportunities to light, the digital revolution calls into question entire parts of the cultural and media economy. My ministry's responsibility is to accompany and even anticipate these upheavals. The culture budget for 2020 is part of this ambition. In total, more than EUR 15 billion will be spent on cultural policies in the state budget. This includes tax expenditure and the budget dedicated to culture in other ministries, and of course the resources that come under the Ministry of Culture, amounting to EUR 8.2 billion, including those of the public audiovisual sector, which represents EUR 3.8 billion. In 2020, my ministry will benefit from budgetary appropriations of €70 million higher than in 2019. The mission "Media, books and cultural industries" will see its appropriations increase by 11 million euros. In the budgetary context we are experiencing, it is an effort, an effort that requires coherence, transformation and results – and in order to achieve results, we need to define priorities. The budget I present to you is therefore a budget of priorities, serving the emancipation of citizens, the cohesion and attractiveness of territories, artists and creators and our cultural sovereignty. The emancipation of citizens requires culture, first and foremost access to independent, pluralistic and high-quality information from an early age. This, of course, involves continuing our efforts to promote the development of reading, which must not be limited to the school environment, and more broadly to access to culture and the works of mind. But at the time of the diversification of information sources and the proliferation of "infox", we also need to educate people about images, the media and information. This is the objective of the Media and Information Education Plan. This year, we used calls for local projects, led by the DRACs, the regional cultural affairs directorates, to meet the needs of the territories. Next year, this plan will be worth €3 million. It is aimed primarily at young publics and will translate into concrete action in libraries, schools and support for associations working on this subject. I do not forget, in addition to this plan, the commitment of the public audiovisual sector in the fight against infox, with, among other things, the decryption platform "true or fake". This reliable, plural, quality information that I mentioned, Agence France Presse is the guarantor. Supporting the AFP means indirectly supporting the entire press. The State will therefore support its transformation plan, amounting to an additional €4.5 million in 2020. This is a considerable effort. The State will also support the AFP's missions of general interest by upgrading their funding to EUR 1.5 million. This reliable, pluralistic, high-quality information, we will continue to support it. We will continue to defend the press, its independence, its freedom. That is why press aid, which is essential to our democracy, will be strengthened in 2020 and that is why I will be fighting, together with my European counterparts, to enforce neighbouring law, as the President of the Republic did at the end of the last Council of European Ministers. We were the first to transpose the creation of this neighbouring right, thanks to the reports of David Assouline and Patrick Mignola. I know that all the political groups in this House have participated and I want to thank them for that. Behind neighbouring law is the future of journalism. It is the preservation of the means of publishers and news agencies. It is the protection of their independence, their ability to inform simply. Today, the value they create is captured by digital giants. This is unacceptable. The second priority of this budget is to strengthen, through the culture, cohesion and attractiveness of our territories. That was at stake in the revision of the Bichet Act. You know how much you need it. I thank Laurent Garcia and all the parliamentarians who have mobilized for the reform of the Bichet law. Modernising our local cultural public services is also the ambition of the library plan, which will be strengthened in terms of budget. My third priority is to place artists and creators at the heart of our cultural policies. To do this, we must not only step up public funding, but also support the structuring of creative and cultural industries. This is the objective of the creation of a €225 million investment fund managed by Bpifrance, announced by the President of the Republic, and of the strengthening of participatory loans managed by the IFCIC, the Institute for the Financing of Cinema and Cultural Industries. These two tools are already available to companies. More specifically, we will accompany the music sector, with the creation of the National Music Centre. Thank you for having passed Pascal Bois's bill, which followed the same report by Pascal Bois with Émilie Cariou – thanks to both of you – thus contributing to the creation of this National Music Centre, which will come into being in 2020. The State will support its launch by increasing its allocation to the CNM project by €7.5 million from 2020 onwards. This budget is intended to increase in charge over the next few years, to reach EUR 20 million per year under the cruise regime, a target set by the Bois-Cariou report. Thanks to your determination, that of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and myself, this house for all music, expected by the profession, will finally be born. Finally, the fourth priority of this budget is to reaffirm our cultural sovereignty. We will reaffirm our cultural sovereignty over the taxation of film financing, harmonizing it so that new players can contribute more to the financing of creation. It also includes the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, which I will have the opportunity to present to the Council of Ministers in a few weeks' time and which we will be discussing at the beginning of next year. One part will be devoted to the financing of creation and another to the public audiovisual sector. This year, as part of the public audiovisual industry's financial trajectory, we are calling for an effort that we consider to be sustainable in a multi-year trajectory 2018-2022. This fiscal trajectory will transform the public audiovisual sector, which we will have the opportunity to reaffirm public service missions in the context of the above-mentioned bill. The project to create France Médias is in no way intended to undermine this fiscal trajectory. Ladies and gentlemen, on this sixtieth anniversary of this ministry, it is up to us, more than ever, to show ambition in cultural matters in the service of the French, of all the French, and especially of those who feel excluded from our cultural policy. My ambition is to reaffirm our cultural sovereignty vis-à-vis the new digital players. It is a difficult fight and we need to be mobilised and determined, especially with regard to these platforms that provide a new service, but require us to ensure fairness between the different actors. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are the priorities of this budget for 2020. I'm at your disposal to exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u115	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the length of questions, such as answers, is set at two minutes. Mr Pascal Bois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u116	I welcome the final adoption by Parliament of the law establishing the National Music Centre, the promulgation of which was published yesterday in the Official Journal. Its ambition is to unite the music and live entertainment sectors in order to better respond to the challenges they face. It is about cultural diversity, economic support, support for creation and artists, international development and local actions – I am thinking here of ABC, artistic and cultural education. We have been able to deepen all these issues in previous parliamentary debates, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, and I will not go back to that: the foundations are now established. However, the minister remains the question of his overall funding and, at the very least, of his clarification in the short and medium term. This is the subject of an amendment which I will defend earlier. Of course, you have worked to ensure that the creation of the CNM on 1 January will be accompanied by 7.5 million euros of new funds, plus the 500,000 euros of resources previously allocated to the CNV, the National Centre for Song, Varieties and Jazz, and the revenue from the tax on variety shows. All of this is well in this PLF. However, there is still an unknown: how to finance, after 2022, the rise of this new structure and more particularly its new missions? They will not be able to rely exclusively on the revenue of a fluctuating tax or on the sole financial assistance of collective management bodies, even if they have expressed their will. The report that my colleague Émilie Cariou and I have devoted to its prefiguration referred to the tracks of the TOCE, the tax on electronic communications operators, or the YouTube tax, which would provide a dynamic complement to the funding of the CNM. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, can you tell us the solutions envisaged and the multi-year trajectory in order to ensure its rise to power?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u117	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u118	I thank you once again for your contribution, since it was your bill that allowed the creation of the CNM on January 1, 2020, starting with the merger of the CNV, the BUREX, the export office of French music, the MRIA, the information and resources centre for current music, the FCM, the fund for musical creation, and the CALIF, the club action of labels and independent French records. This common house of music will be able to draw on the current resources of the various institutions and associations that will compose it. I am thinking of the tax on the ticketing of live entertainment, the contributions of collective management bodies and the state budget. By 2020, in addition to the existing resources, €7.5 million will support the creation of the NJC and we will gradually build up in two or three years to reach an additional €20 million. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will have the opportunity to reflect on the possible introduction of a tax dedicated to this CNM, but what counts above all is these means, which reflect the very strong commitment of the State, this government, at the request of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and of the whole majority to ensure that this sector of music is equipped with this public establishment at the service of all music, the accompaniment of the musical emergence, the exportation and the observation of this sector. You can count on the Government and my commitment to continue to fund the NJC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u119	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u120	Having been, as chair of the book and paper economy study group, particularly alerted to the situation of comic book authors, I would like to ask you about tax schemes to support diversity and creativity. A young author recently reminded me that the general states of the 2016 comic strip had highlighted the galloping precariousness of this environment: 50% of the authors are less affected by SMIC and 36% are below the poverty line, these difficulties being further increased for women. I will mention among the many obstacles mentioned by this young author the difficulty of obtaining the RSA and proving the viability of the profession with random income and difficult to estimate; the impossibility of gaining access to the rights of almost everyone, such as holidays, the recognition of accidents at work, a retirement pension; a system of advance payments on rights that does not allow genuine remuneration to the first copy sold; a risk-taking that is essentially based on the author; nice but very often voluntary participations in festivals and fairs, must-have but time-consuming activities. He legitimately reminded me that if the comic book author does not work to enrich himself, but because of the need to write and lie down his guts, his anxieties on paper, he wonders about his ability to live with incomes of 300 to 350 euros per month for 250 hours of work. [[Mr. Raphaël Gérard applauds]] My question, Minister, therefore, concerns the mechanisms put in place to maintain diversity and creativity and to support these creators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u121	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u122	You are absolutely right: artists-authors, especially comics, are often in a very precarious situation. I am fully aware of this, as are the department's teams. We are proceeding in two ways to remedy this. On the one hand, we are working very operationally, in the short term, to improve existing mechanisms that are in the interest of the authors, and thus ensure their sustainability. I am thinking, for example, of compensating for the increase in the CSG – a widespread social contribution – and of several social protection-related schemes that you mentioned. On the other hand, I entrusted Bruno Racine with a forward-looking mission on the future of artists-authors in our country, because they must be at the heart of the priorities of this ministry, and more broadly of society. Through this mission, it is necessary to reflect on all aspects of the professional life of artists – their training, their remuneration, their social protection, their possible conversion or their retirement – so that France remains, in the area of comics but more broadly of creation, a land of artists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u123	I call the credits of the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission, listed in state B. I have before me two amendments, Nos 978 and 999, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 978.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u124	In order to support the establishment of the NJC, scheduled for 1 January 2020, and to enable it to carry out all its tasks, this draft finance law provides for the allocation of €7.5 million in budgetary resources. This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group aims to increase to EUR 20 million the new budgetary resources granted to the CNM, in accordance with the recommendations of the report of the CNM's pre-figuration mission submitted to the Prime Minister in November 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u125	I call Mrs Duby-Muller to support Amendment No. 999.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u126	While the creation of the NJC has just been definitively voted on by Parliament, this appeal amendment makes it possible to raise the prospect of the new establishment by asking the question of its financing in the medium term. The CNM was particularly expected by the music industry. The shift of an additional €7.5 million in commitment authorizations and payment appropriations attests to a certain commitment by the Government. However, the authors of the work on the establishment's prefiguration agree to assess the need for starting up at a minimum of 20 million euros of new budget. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to increase the NJC's commitment authority from €7.5 million to €20 million, in order to include the Government's ambition in the budget documents from the outset. Without calling into question the principle of budgetary annuality, it is indeed a question of confirming the CNM's intention to increase its power beyond 2020, as you stressed during the examination of these appropriations in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u128	I would ask for these amendments to be withdrawn and, failing that, I will issue an unfavorable opinion. As you know, this €20 million allocation of the CNM recommended by Pascal Bois and Émilie Cariou's report is not necessary as of 2020, since the establishment is currently in the seed phase. However, I understand the purpose of these appeal amendments, which call for a clear commitment from the Government to increase the funding of the NJC. It is therefore important to hear from the Minister on the budget path and funding prospects of the NJC, although it seems to me that he has already voted on the subject in the Committee on Cultural Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u130	I have just referred to this question, but I am happy to speak again. As the rapporteur said very well, this year the NJC is in the start-up phase, before new missions are implemented. The increase in funding will take place over the next few years, until by 2022 the additional EUR 20 million advocated by the report is reached. We are responsible for the state budget: whenever we pay more public money, we need to know what complementary mission of general interest it is intended for. The prefiguration mission has worked with professionals around several new missions that require additional resources. Let the NJC settle and these new missions deploy. We will see in 2021 and 2022 what the new missions are. In any case, the Government's commitment is to move towards an increase in the complementary resources of the CNM.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u131	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 976, 975 and 977, which can be presented together. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u132	These three amendments by the Socialist and Related Group aim to maintain the appropriations allocated to press aid in line with those opened by the initial finance law for 2019. As I mentioned in my speech, aid to the press has already fallen by EUR 15 million since 2017, even though the sector's ecosystem is experiencing a particularly worrying crisis. In this sense, we believe that reducing the appropriations of the strategic fund for the development of the press, portage and media aid in a more general way is totally contradictory. These aids are essential to promote cultural development and information in our territories and to ensure pluralism and the dissemination of information and ideas. In this context, the Socialist and Related Group believes it is vital to support and support this sector. That is why we are proposing to maintain these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u134	He's unfavorable. Today, the choice has been made to strengthen support for Agence France Presse and to maintain the support paid to Presstalis and to the political and general information press. The balance that has been drawn must be maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u136	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u137	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No. 1046.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u138	The aim of this amendment is to transfer EUR 1.6 million from the Press and Media programme to the Book and Cultural Industries programme, above all to highlight a line, Action 07 on the International Radio and Television Company – the ICRT. We do not know exactly what this action consists of, yet it has 1.6 million. Created in 1981, the ICRT can help foreign media or promote the dissemination of the Francophonie. However, the concrete action of this company, which supports the Moroccan media media Medi 1, has not been satisfactorily evaluated. I therefore hope that the appropriations for this programme will be transferred or that we can have sufficient explanations of the actions financed by this line.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u140	The information contained in the budget documents is indeed insufficient. I will let the minister answer this question and propose that you withdraw this appeal amendment so as not to brutally destabilize the economic model of this radio. It has not been examined by the committee, but on a personal basis, my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u142	Since 1981, the CIRT has been providing essential support to the Francophonie in Morocco, through the provision of the bilingual Franco-Moroccan radio station Medi 1, which employs French-speaking journalists. Maintaining the appropriations associated with this partnership is essential to cover these wage costs, and their reduction would of course be misunderstood by our Moroccan partners. Having said that, I hear your question about the budgetary imputation of these appropriations; But there is no ideal solution. Of course, the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs sits at the general assembly of the society but, conversely, attaching this funding to the budget of culture avoids any suspicion of a hidden diplomatic aim: it is indeed an action at the service of the francophonie that is being discussed. It is true that the information is not sufficiently substantiated in the material we have provided to you, but several documents have been sent to you since the work in committee and, as every year, an evaluation report on the use of the appropriations allocated to the ICRW will be submitted by my department to Parliament. I therefore call for the withdrawal of this amendment and will, failing that, issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u143	Mrs Céline Calvez, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u144	I wish to receive all available information on this subject. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u145	On the credits of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries", I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 979.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u146	This draft law provides for a decrease of almost 700000 euros compared to 2019 in the appropriations allocated to support the publishing sector and bookstores. However, these funds are essential to the cultural development of our territories and should not be reduced. Indeed, in a forum published last June in Le Monde, the Syndicat de la Libraire française recalls how the bookstore is a model of the future on the cultural, commercial and social levels, which must therefore be strengthened at the financial level. I quote the authors: "France has the chance to have one of the most dense bookstore networks in the world, connecting the entire territory to the smallest cities. This is why the Socialist and Related Group wants the means of this sector to be consolidated to respond to the deterioration of the economic situation of the book chain, emphasized both by the authors and by the booksellers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u148	The payment appropriations entered in the "Book and reading" action of the 334 programme are in fact decreasing by €0.6 million, mainly due to a decrease in the investment allocation allocated to the work of the Richelieu quadrilateral, this construction site coming to an end. This decrease is largely offset by the increase in the appropriations of the BNF – Bibliothèque nationale de France. This amendment therefore appears to me to be moot. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u149	I put to the vote the credits of the mission "Media, Book and Cultural Industries".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u150	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 34 Number of votes cast 31 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 29 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u151	I call Mr Pascal Bois to support Amendment No. 1044.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u152	Taking into account the consequences of the law on the establishment of the National Music Centre, we consider it necessary to amend the recipient of the revenue from the tax on variety shows. This is the subject of this amendment. In order not to destabilise existing support mechanisms and to ensure that live entertainment companies have the visibility they need to programme their investments, this amendment, however, organises, by way of derogation, the maintenance until 2022 of the rules of allocation now in force: the revenue from the tax is thus allocated, until 31 December 2022, to the CNM for the purpose of financing actions to support performances of songs, varieties and jazz that fall within the scope of the tax on ticketing formerly assigned to the National Centre for Varieties and Jazz, and now to the CNM. As is the case today, a portion of the revenue from this tax will continue to be allocated to the financing of the operating costs necessary for the implementation of the support measures. As from 1 January 2023, and in accordance with the principle of collective solidarity of the music industry which underlies the creation of the National Music Centre, the proceeds of the tax will be allocated to it for the financing of all its missions. The disappearance of the specific shift towards actions to support live entertainment will be made possible by the rise in public and private funding allocated to the CNM.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u154	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u156	Favourable, too. I thank Mr Bois for this important amendment, which reinforces the funding of the CNM while sending a message to the professionals: with the creation of the CNM, none of the players in the sector will see its resources reduced compared to the existing one. We will have the opportunity, over the next few years, to look at the missions to be entrusted to the National Music Centre, in which, I repeat, all the players in the sector must see an opportunity they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u157	I call the appropriations of the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector", entered in statement D. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to support Amendment No 967, which you, my dear colleague, may be able to present together with a few others...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u158	In view of the late hour, Mr President, I can indeed associate in the same presentation Amendments Nos 967, 969, 968, 970 and 971, which concern all five audiovisual companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u159	[[Smile and applause]] Everyone will agree, I think...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u160	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. These amendments by the Socialist and Related Group aim to maintain the appropriations allocated to France Télévisions, Radio France, Arte France, France Médias Monde and the INA in line with those opened in the original finance law for 2019. Since the summer of 2018 and the definition of the budget path of the public audiovisual sector as reflected in the executive arbitrations, the appropriations allocated to these bodies are constantly decreasing. This policy of constant budgetary decline, which is contradictory to the various tasks entrusted to the said bodies, has the effect, above all, of sacrificing jobs. We want proof of this: the voluntary departure plan organized by Radio France, or the unreplaced departures within France Médias Monde in 2018. On the other hand, in the face of a crisis of citizens' confidence in the media, how can the added value of content be enhanced by depriving these companies of €190 million by 2022? The Socialist and Related Group considers it essential to support all these societies; That is why these amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u161	Thank you for this very synthetic presentation, Mrs. Tolmont. What is the committee's opinion on these five amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u162	To be very concise in my turn, I would simply say that it is better for us to stick to the budgetary trajectories set by the Government in 2018. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u164	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u165	Amendments Nos 966 and 974 by Mrs Sylvie Tolmont are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u166	Amendments Nos 973 and 972 by Mrs Sylvie Tolmont, introducing an additional article before Article 73, are both defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u167	We have completed the review of the credits from the Media, Books and Cultural Industries Mission and the Public Audio-Visual Advances Financial Competition Account. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-31-O1052.u168	Next sitting, Monday, 4 November, at 4 p.m.: Further discussion of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020: Review of the "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" mission appropriations. The meeting is adjourned.
