ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u2	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to put his question, No. 795, concerning the UPM Darblay Chapel stationery.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u3	By announcing, on September 10, its intention to separate from its Darblay Chapel factory in Grand-Couronne, the Finnish group UPM launched the final act of its disengagement from the production of graphic paper in our national territory. After closing the Docelles plant in 2014 in order to prevent it from being bought by a competitor, UPM had already shut down Grand-Couronne's 3 machine in 2015. If UPM claims to want to seek a buyer, it is very much to be feared that no real industrial project will succeed, in the light of Docelles's precedent and the practice of the major groups in this field. Chapelle Darblay is now 218 employees and almost 1,000 jobs induced. With a very modern working tool installed on the banks of the Seine, Chapelle Darblay is also a major player in the recycling industry. The site currently processes nearly 350,000 tonnes of used paper per year, collected from 200 local authorities, which enable it to produce 240,000 tonnes of recycled paper. The domestic market, estimated at 300,000 tonnes, is supplied mainly by foreign producers – a situation which raises the question of the security of supply of our national press. In the event of the plant being closed, which provides 20% of the French market, the French press would be totally at the mercy of foreign suppliers. Grand-Couronne is also a model of circular economy, which can still be perfected. The plant is powered by a biomass boiler equipped with a 20 megawatt turbine, whose steam and electricity generation is resold. UPM's decision is primarily a financial strategy aimed at artificially reducing production in order to raise prices and ensure a level of profitability for its shareholders. UPM indicated that it would like to start the closure process if no offer to resume acceptable to it was registered before next January. Every effort must therefore be made to allow the operation of the plant to continue: failing this opportunity to dispose of the used papers collected, the communities would likely have no choice but to incinerate them, because of the scarcity of export opportunities. The national print media, on the other hand, would be at the mercy of foreign producers. The employees of Chapelle Darblay, their representatives and their elected representatives, support a preferential project that would take the form of a cooperative society of collective interest, with the aim of continuing the production of graphic paper. To this end, they have commissioned a study firm whose first conclusions are due in mid-December. The dismantling of our productive apparatus can no longer be achieved in an urban area, that of Rouen, which has already experienced the closure of Petroplus and is currently confronted with the situation of the Lubrizol plant. I would therefore ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to clarify the measures you intend to take vis-à-vis the actors on the ground, and to tell me whether you intend to respond to their request for an urgent round table involving all interested interlocutors and ministries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u4	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u5	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Mr Bruno Le Maire, who has been detained elsewhere. Mr Wulfranc, you call the Government's attention to the situation of the Darblay Chapel stationery, located in Grand-Couronne, which the Finnish paper group UPM recently announced for sale. First of all, I would like to assure you of the attention of the Government – both of Bruno Le Maire's ministry and of Muriel Pénicaud's – and of the mobilization of all the services on this issue, as you were told when you came to Bercy with the employees' representatives on 9 October. Given the specific situation and the history of the UPM Group, which you recalled, we expect this group to make every effort to find an industrial future at the site concerned. It has, as you have also pointed out, an exceptional situation and infrastructure. In this context, we expect all the marks of interest to be seriously and benevolently examined by the UPM Group, in order to enable a credible industrial project for the site and the employees to emerge. The difficult situation of the paper industry as a whole, in particular graphic paper, will, in a second stage, require a rigorous examination of a possible recovery project – of which we hope it will emerge and which could, if necessary, be the one you mentioned, supported by the employees – in order to ensure its sustainability. If there are any options, UPM's duty is to study them in good faith, and I can assure you that we will be vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u6	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to put her question, No 814, concerning the situation of the Toupnot company.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u7	The company Toupnot, owned by the Cofigeo group, located in Lourdes in the Hautes-Pyrénées, was the victim of a serious fire on 10 January 2019. The latter destroyed the production premises and resulted in the technical unemployment of 72 employees. Since then, very many meetings have been held, both in prefecture under the authority of the Prefect and at ministerial level with the interdepartmental delegate for enterprise restructuring. Bringing together the leaders of Cofigeo, the representatives of the employees, the local authorities, the town hall, the community of agglomeration, the department, the region, the parliamentarians and all the State departments concerned, the aim of these meetings was either the reconstruction of the plant on the site by the Cofigeo group or the search for a successor. In June 2019, Cofigeo's management undertook to rebuild a production workshop on the site, allowing the maintenance of thirty-five jobs and the development of ancillary activities for fifteen additional jobs in the medium term – the group having ruled out the possibility of finding a sponsor. Since then, nothing has progressed and no serious and credible industrial project has been presented, while the insurance company has already paid 18 million euros in compensation to the company. This situation is all the more intolerable since the Cofigeo Group benefited from a ministerial decision of 18 July 2018 on the acquisition of the activities of Financial Turenne Lafayette, which "allows the merger, subject to the commitment to maintain overall employment within the Cofigeo Group". To justify this decision, the Minister of Economy and Finance refers to reasons of general interest, in view of the characteristics of the group's production sites and its employment areas – including the Toupnot production plant. It must be noted that the Cofigeo Group does not comply with the commitments made in this decision, while the Minister Bruno Le Maire, who is a signatory to it, had the legal means to compel it to do so. Mr. Secretary of State, why didn't Mr. Le Maire do it? What actions can you take against the Cofigeo group to force it to find a viable and lasting solution to safeguard as many jobs as possible, and to use the insurance compensation to support the restart of the activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u8	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u9	Mrs Dubié, you draw the attention of Minister Bruno Le Maire to the situation of the company Toupnot, in Lourdes, which employs seventy-two employees and whose plant was largely destroyed by a fire on January 10, 2019. Since then, government departments have been working extensively with all stakeholders to explore, with the company, the possibility of reviving historical corned beef production activity on the site. As a result of the fire, many of the factory's customers immediately turned to competition to ensure their supply. The management of the Cofigeo Group therefore considered that the production of corned beef could not be re-launched on the site in a sustainable manner. In view of this, the project continued with the company's research into alternative development for the site. Indeed, on this issue – just as when Bruno Le Maire was led to take the decision that you recalled regarding Cofigeo's acquisition of certain activities of the Financial Turenne Lafayette – the sole concern of the Government is to safeguard as many jobs and activities as possible. This implies that an economic activity is identified and that a credible business plan – I insist on this term – can be built. However, as far as this site is concerned, at the end of the work undertaken by the Cofigeo Group, the identified lines of activity appear to be very uncertain, as you said: not all of them would be successful, or only after a very long period of time. The group has therefore announced the establishment of a plan to safeguard employment – PSE – in order to accompany employees of the company who have been unemployed for many months and who will have to prepare for their conversion. He also – which seems to me to be the most important – agreed to undertake, with the support of the Government and the support of the Occitanie region, a search for a contractor for the company. I can assure you that we remain vigilant on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u10	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u11	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State, but it seems to me to be incomplete. I do not understand why the minister cannot compel this company to maintain jobs and, above all, to carry out the reconstruction project. The decision of 18 July 2018 was taken on grounds of general interest and against the opinion of the Autorité de la concurrence, which wished to condition the authorisation given to the Cofigeo group. He also pointed out that the Autorité de la concurrence's injunctions called into question its industrial strategy. The production sites are all listed in this decision, and the arguments used in this decision refer precisely to the difficulty, in the context of a PES, of finding a job. Today, however, the Cofigeo Group is doing precisely what it had used as an argument to seek the Minister's exceptional authorization. I find this inappropriate and we denounce this attitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u12	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to put her question, No 815, concerning the situation of French paper mills.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u13	My question is about the bleak news of French paper mills. After the closure in the spring of the Arjowiggins factory in Bessé-sur-Braye and the dismissal of its 568 employees, the last French factory in Finland UPM, with its 236 employees in Grand-Couronne, Seine-Maritime, is likely to suffer the same fate. Between 2013 and 2018, there were no fewer than fifteen paper mills that put the key under the door, while others reduced their production capacity. In five years, the number of jobs in the sector has increased from 15,000 to 11,000 in early 2019. The printing sector is therefore slowly but surely sluggish, as a result of mergers and mergers in SMEs, but above all because of economic difficulties in markets that have become unstable, which make it difficult to seek buyers. The process even seems to be speeding up: over the last six months, between the end of February and the end of August, more than eighty companies from the labour force have fallen under judicial control, of which some 15 had more than 1 million euros in turnover. Northern France has been particularly affected. However, if the market for graphic paper dives, the hygiene market remains constant, while packaging and packaging are booming due to the explosion of online commerce and the shutdown of plastic bags. We know that the Government is fully mobilized on this subject – we see this in particular on the Lecta file, following the refusal of the Directorate-General for European Competition to validate the €35 million aid. Can you, Secretary of State, go back to your ministry's efforts to support the companies affected in reorienting their production, and to keep the production of paper, particularly recycled paper, which is based on a virtuous circular economy, as close as possible to our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u14	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u15	Mrs Bannier, you draw the Government's attention to the difficult situation in the French paper industry and in particular in the graphic paper industry, to which UPM belongs, a company which Mr Wulfranc referred just a few moments ago to the difficult situation. As you point out, this sector is facing a profound change in its outlets and a rapid fall in its market. Other unfortunate examples exist, such as Arjowiggins. Despite considerable financial efforts by its shareholder and the public authorities, notably through Bpifrance, the absence of an industrial transformation plan committed in time to develop the company in markets more promising than graphic paper has in fact prevented a solution. On the other hand, the Lecta Group has a long history of diversification towards specialty papers. Although financial restructuring is under way at group level, every effort is being made to enable the French site to follow this strategy and we are now looking forward to success. These examples show that the transformation of industrial tools requires considerable investment. In addition, it can only be carried out once a business plan has been drawn up outlining credible business prospects and the economic sustainability of the project. More broadly, the Government's industrial policy aims to reindustrialize our country, which has undergone a deindustrialization movement over the past decade. As you know, we are recording the first results of this policy since, for the first time in ten years, France has re-created industrial jobs this year. In any event, in the particular case you have mentioned, I can assure you that the services of the Government are mobilised and that they are monitoring the situation of the various French paper mills, in a changing environment which you have described precisely, in order to find, whenever possible, solutions to maintain these structuring activities for the territories and, more generally, for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u16	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs spoke of her question No 816 concerning Calcia Heidelberg.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u17	Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, the Calcia Heildeberg cement company plans to operate a quarry in the municipality of Brueil-en-Vexin, in the heart of the Vexin Regional Natural Park. Indeed, Guitrancourt's career, which until now has been exploited by the company, has been exhausted. The reservation of a nearby land is therefore an opportunity. However, there are several problems. As you will understand, the quarry in question is located in a protected regional natural park, and its exploitation would inevitably lead to the destruction of agricultural land as well as remarkable landscapes. In addition, there are environmental risks, such as water contamination and the transport of materials or the cement industry, which could have a very negative impact on the health of nearby citizens. Many residents and elected representatives stand firm against this project. The Paris Council also unanimously voted to support the abandonment of the quarry project, even though the city of Paris is directly interested in the extraction of limestone to meet the needs of its infrastructure. Furthermore, in 2010, Ciments Calcia signed a partnership agreement with the French committee of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, which advocates the inclusion of biodiversity conservation in economic activities. The following year, the same company joined the national biodiversity strategy 2011-2020. Mr Secretary of State, to the extent that this project has been envisaged twenty-five years ago, that it has several negative impacts and that it brings together a large number of environmental associations and elected representatives against it, do you think it is appropriate to pursue it? Alternatives exist. Can you tell us whether negotiations have taken place with the company to promote a more environmentally friendly model of production or processing of raw materials?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u18	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u19	The aim of the career project in the municipality of Brueil-en-Vexin is indeed to sustain the supply of the Gargenville cement plant, also operated by the company Ciments Calcia, in order to compensate for the short-term depletion of the resources of the authorised career of Guitrancourt. This project covers about 100 hectares within the special area of limestone cement quarries established in 2000 and commonly known as "Zone 109". This represents only a very small part of the area of the French Vexin Regional Natural Park. In any event, the charter of the Regional Nature Park provides that quarries may be operated within Area 109. On June 20, 2019, the Prefect of the Yvelines issued an environmental authorization order for the exploitation of this quarry, after ensuring that the sequence "avoids, reduces and compensates for environmental damage". For example, with regard to biodiversity, measures are being taken to restore wetlands and manage pioneer species. Given the sensitivity of the issues related to the surface water and groundwater resource, third-party expertise was conducted as part of the investigation of the file. In order to establish a dialogue between the operator and all stakeholders, it was decided to set up, under the prefect's aegis, a monitoring commission for this site. On the other hand, it seems necessary to insist that there is no equivalent, in economic and environmental terms, in the short or medium term, alternative to the economic model of cement production in France, which is based on cement plants located in the vicinity of limestone quarries, the main raw material of cement. The project led by the company Ciments Calcia thus allows to maintain in the long term significant cement production in Île-de-France and to put an end to the process of degradation of the rate of regional coverage of cement needs. Finally, in the interests of efficient use of the resource and reduction of the quantities of materials extracted, the company has embarked on a circular economy approach by promoting the reincorporation of limestones from the waste of the Greater Paris. Each year, 150000 tonnes of limestone will be recovered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u20	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to put her question, No 794, on the fight against consumerism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u21	My question is for the Minister of Economy and Finance, as Friday, November 29, the "Black Friday", approaches. This custom of a day of one-off sales before the end of the year, at which prices are broken, benefits from the situation of the poorest in our country and contributes to the idea that material goods would bring happiness. This idea is relatively new in France: coming from the United States, this practice has grown considerably since 2016. This event seems to me to be more and more a hindrance to the present historical necessities. It helps to produce more and more goods, under ever more disastrous social and ecological conditions, for massive consumption on the occasion of balances allowing to easily guess the colossal margins practised in normal times. This is one of the nodal problems of the current ecological tragedy! The Black Friday is a symbol of overconsumption that consumes resources, of wasteful disposable goods, of a world where social inequalities are terrible and working conditions are often extremely precarious. It is an archaic model, at a time when we should relocate and when the younger generation is the first to say that climate change is not a threat but a living reality. Fortunately, resistance exists. Associations, groups of young people for the climate and disobedients all tell you that another way and another world are possible. Next Friday, you know, some associations will particularly denounce Amazon's behaviour, which is the worst example in this respect. Amazon hides from the tax 57% of its turnover in France, its activities are extremely polluting – in 2018, Amazon Web Services rejected 55.8 million tons of greenhouse gases, equivalent to Portugal's emissions – and is building a jobless world since, contrary to the company's discourse, two jobs are being destroyed for a precarious job created. My questions are therefore: what will the Government do to deal with this situation? Why does he authorize Black Friday? Will he finally put the industrialists at a standstill instead of simply sensitizing or informing the consumer? Will he impose a moratorium on Amazon's new facilities? In the current context, the Black Friday seems totally indecent. On this day alone, Amazon's boss earns $2 billion, while one out of twenty French families is in debt, 400,000 people have turned into poverty last year, bringing the number of people living below the poverty line to 9.4 million, and the Restos du coeur has just announced that more than 50% of their beneficiaries are young people under the age of 26 and 39% are even under the age of 18. It is therefore particularly indecent to continue to follow this model, which is increasingly spoiling certain people and wasting more and more the possibilities of survival of the human species. Also, I ask again the question: what will the Government do to finally put the industrialists to the ground? I will end with a quote from André Gorz: "Only you are worthy of what is good for all. The only thing that deserves to be produced is that which does not favour or lower anyone. We can be happier with less opulence because, in a society without privilege, there are no poor. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u22	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u23	Madam Member, I would like you to hold the Government responsible for all the misfortunes on this land, but until proven otherwise, it is not the Government that pushes the French to go to Amazon and make their purchases online. It is not the Government that decides the methods of purchasing the French: they do it on their own. In your question, you confuse e-commerce with Amazon. This company poses problems, particularly tax and possibly competition, but the overall issue is the impact of e-commerce, particularly on the environment. And on this subject, I refer you to the studies carried out, which generally show that the effects are not entirely univocal: in many cases, the environment is better respected when our citizens use e-commerce than when each family takes their car to go shopping in the city centre. With regard to Black Friday and the more global issue of consumerism, a number of initiatives have been taken by trade actors, who are engaged in new approaches – selling second-hand items, giving to associations, repairing objects, taking over used products... At the same time, many consumers are increasingly sensitive to this issue of the impact of trade and e-commerce on the environment, which explains the success of some companies specializing in sustainable trade. Moreover, Ms Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, invited the Trade Concertation Commission to formulate operational proposals for a more responsible trade and the adoption of sustainable practices; eco-responsibility and circular economy recommendations are expected by February 2020. I can't believe I'm at Black Friday. Sales made during this period are commercial promotions, at the initiative of traders – as may be the sales – permitted by regulation. These operations concern physical stores and e-commerce digital sites. However, they must be carried out in accordance with articles L. 121-2 et seq. of the Consumer Code. The various promotional operations allow traders, especially from downtown, to create a commercial dynamic. Legally, the limitation of promotion periods could be seen as a restriction on freedom of trade, constitutionally guaranteed freedom. The Government is not necessarily in favour of overconsumption, Mrs Panot. Its objective is to raise awareness among the French, but ultimately it is up to our citizens to choose the mode of consumption they want to favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u24	Madam President! I would like to answer Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u25	I'm sorry, Mrs. Panot, but the six minutes devoted to your question have passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u26	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to put his question, No. 792, on Facebook censorship.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u27	At the end of August, I was still on vacation in the Tarn when my com officer alerted me: "I don't understand, your Facebook page no longer runs. There's almost no more visits. I didn't worry, I had to drive my daughter to the pony. A week later, thanks to an article from Mediapart, the mystery became clearer: piles of Facebook pages, all committed – Lille insurgente, Bretagne noire, Collectif Auto Média angrier, Groupe Lyon Antifa, Nantes revolté – were subjected to the same censorship on 22 and 23 August, the same weekend as me. The "brains not available" page, for example, has increased from 300,000 daily views to less than 1000. Coincidence? At the same time, in Biarritz, the summit of the G7 was held with Emmanuel Macron, Angela Merkel and Donald Trump – a G7 in a closed city, with locked communication and thus a blocked counter-information. These militant pages protested to Facebook, but it was an algorithm that responded: "Your opinion will be used to improve Facebook. Thank you for taking the time to send us your report. In turn, Mediapart interviewed Facebook, which issued an algorithmic novlanguage: "The pages in question were not censored. If their visibility has been reduced, it is because they have published content or content that violates community standards. » In October, this time, Le Parisien reports, it was the railwaymen of Sud-Rail and the CGT who saw their pages censored, with the same answer: they would have contravened the "standards of the community". But what are these standards? Do they ban politics? Controversy? The Government is the guardian of freedom of expression in our democracy. The damage here is obvious. Did you question Facebook's leadership? What answer did you get? On the contrary, do these censorships fix you? In the spring of this year, President Macron met with Facebook's CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, to, I quote, "combat hateful content." Are government criticism and support for social movements placed in these "hate content"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u28	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u29	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which allows me to make a salutary point. If you want to know if the Government is interacting with Facebook to remove a number of pages of yellow vests or trade unions that do not like the Government, the answer is no. Public authorities interact with Facebook in two settings. First of all, I think you and I will agree to find it normal for justice to ask Facebook to remove a number of pages of anti-Semitic insults, insults or death threats. The second framework is PHAROS – a platform for harmonising, analysing, overlapping and guiding alerts. These are terrorist, child pornography or hate speech. But the Government never asks Facebook to delete pages or accounts because it does not like them. Facebook is a private platform, Mr.Ruffin: no one has to go. There are alternatives, and that is why your group supported interoperability when considering Mrs Avia's bill to combat hate content on the Internet. Facebook can therefore decide to include in its terms and conditions of use the possibility of closing a particular group and if you consider that these conditions have not been complied with, you can turn to justice. More generally, you ask the question of how we regulate these platforms that have become the agoras of the 21st century: that was the whole issue of the Avia bill, which we debated in July. It was a question of finding a way to reconcile the demand for the protection of the French, which the public authorities must ensure on social networks as everywhere else – I imagine that you have been the victim of insults, even death threats, like all politicians and as many Frenchmen, to the point that today it is almost a question of public health – with respect for freedom of expression. I think, Mr Ruffin, that this deserves more than an oral question without debate. We spent several days discussing this issue in July. However, if I recall that you were there at the beginning of these debates and we exchanged, I did not see you much later, when it came to going into the details of the provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u30	My question was, did you call Facebook?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u31	The honour of the national representation is not only to come one Tuesday morning at nine o'clock asking a question without listening to the answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u32	You're not answering my question, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u33	The honor of representation and what you are paid for is to look in detail at how the law is written.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u34	What a contempt! That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u35	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u36	My question was this: in the face of a clear censorship, a censorship of a political nature, what did the Government do? It is clear from your reply that the Government has done nothing and that it intends to do nothing. Because it's good for him! And you don't even need to give Facebook orders to get it ahead of your desires. We are here in a case of infringement of freedom of expression. My question was to the Minister of Culture because he is supposed to be the guarantor. And an Internet technician answers me! It is not a technical answer that I want, it is a legal answer to a question of infringement of our democratic freedoms. Nothing has been done, I repeat, to question Facebook and oblige it to guarantee freedom of expression on Facebook pages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u37	Mr Stéphane Demilly, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No. 819, on digital exclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u38	Digital technology represents incredible opportunities and a tremendous lever for economic, social and cultural development. But in everyday life, for some, it is a real nightmare: the impossibility of paying your bills, of contacting the public services... I keep in mind the ubiquitous situation experienced by an elderly person who, having paid his taxes by cheque, was sent back his means of payment on the ground that he had to pay through the Internet. This case is not isolated. This is really crazy... Digital technology has become so inescapable in our day-to-day operations that not being able to control it or not having access to the Internet exposes our citizens to a risk of rapid exclusion. According to a study commissioned by the social press union in 2018, almost a third of French people have already given up taking steps because of the need to use the Internet, and 23% of French people are not comfortable with digital. It's a big deal. In his annual report, the Defender of Rights also warns about the risks of "absorbing access to rights and exclusion" related to dematerialization. While the Government wishes to accelerate the digital transformation of the administration by 2022, I would like to stress that it should not be done by excluding a part of the population, especially the older people, who feel despised by being so little considered. Faced with the risk of new social inequalities, Mr. Secretary of State, what measures does the Government intend to take to ensure that the quality of public service is the same, with or without digital technology? What measures are being taken or will be taken to support people wishing to acquire or improve their digital skills? Moreover, using the Internet implies having access to it, which unfortunately is not the case everywhere, far from it, especially in the most rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u39	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u40	Mr Demilly, you are dealing with an absolutely essential question. I would say quite abruptly that the digital divide adds to the social and territorial divides and is partly the basis of the anger that the French have been able to express. As you said, as much as digital technology can be an extraordinary factor in progress and simplification, which prevents people with disabilities from moving or allowing them to do their work at any time, as much for the 13 million French people who believe they have no digital competence, the dematerialization of public services and the evolution of our world in general, where almost everything has to be done online, is a considerable social violence. There are three axes in the Government's action – I put aside the question of the network, of "pipes", because I think the state has considered for too long that it was enough to set up these networks, such as fibre, to allow everyone to use them. This is not the case, and today a whole part of the population, including in metropolitan areas, feels excluded. The first thing is to deal with the urgency and to ensure that someone can ensure the online approaches of the 6 million French people whom it is estimated they will not be able to be trained in the use of the Internet. This is the whole objective of France services houses. Secondly, we are making sure that the remaining 6 to 7 million people are trained and empowered. Yesterday I went to Romans-sur-Isère to visit one of these digital mediation spaces, in a social centre, in a neighbourhood under the politics of the city. People are trained, elderly or not – because young people too can be a problem: if they are very strong to go to Snapchat or Instagram, they have a lot more trouble writing a resume or completing a tax return! It is therefore necessary to make sure that the entire territory is knit, so that each Frenchman can find not only someone who can do these online steps in his place, but also a place where he can form. These places are usually gateways to other issues, concerning screens, data management, digital parenting, so that everyone can embark on this revolution. There is no society where 20% of the population feels excluded. Finally, I attach great importance to the very quality of public service sites and the dematerialization of approaches. It has often been a little fast, made without thinking about all the citizens. We have all lived it: you go online, you do not find in the drop-down lists, there is no phone number or email address.... and finally you understand that you have to move to the prefecture, which is 100 kilometers away and which has very few time zones! In short, you feel that the public service is not up to what it should be since it should be accessible to everyone. On this topic of inclusion and bridging the digital divide, we will have the opportunity to make important announcements next year. We are already working with 48 communities on the issue of digital passes. Be assured that this is one of my priorities for the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u41	Mr Eric Coquerel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 793, concerning the claims of professional firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u42	Two recent events have highlighted the heroism, dedication and professionalism of firefighters: the fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and the fire at the Lubrizol factory in Rouen. The heroism of the firefighters of France is not always as spectacular, but it is daily. They protect, every day and at the risk of their lives, property, the environment and the French. Today they're overheating. On June 26, 2019, seven union organizations representing more than 85% of the professional firefighters filed a 60-day strike notice with an extension of 60 days. The findings of firefighters are legitimate. They are indeed collateral victims of the weakening of our public health system: they become a last resort for the inhabitants, more and more distant from the structures of care and doctors. As such, the mobilization of emergency workers and hospital staff is of crucial importance to the profession of firefighters. Even though they lack resources, they are more sought after than before: from 2003 to 2018, the number of their interventions increased from 3.5 million to 4.6 million per year. Despite this continuous increase, a report by the Court of Auditors from March 2019 shows that from 2011 to 2018, the number of firefighters in the SIDS – departmental fire and rescue services – decreased. The Minister of the Interior paid tribute to the firefighters: it is time to take action, because their demands are common sense, in particular the revalorisation of the fire premium, up to those intended for other jobs at risk, or the massive creation of statutory jobs. This is essential for the sustainability of the services provided by firefighters to the population. Instead of responding quickly to these demands, the strike was stifled. Firefighters, held by the imperative of continuity of public service, some of whom dream of extending to transport, have little means to be heard. Despite their dedication, several firefighters were punished for wearing a simple armband indicating their rank as striker. On 15 October 2019, the Government welcomed the historic mobilization of firefighters with water guns, police nasses and tear gas. It was on the bridge of the Concorde: I was there and I was entitled to the same rate. No minister deigned to receive the delegation of firefighters who had come to negotiate that day. None! You'd rather blow on the embers. Yet the state can act directly to improve the daily lives of firefighters! Act, rather than hide behind the departments, as Mr Castaner did in answer to one of my questions! The inter-union firefighters have made concrete proposals to increase the fire premium of all categories by 28 per cent, including the increase in State aid to departments through the special tax on insurance agreements or the upgrading of the private ambulance deficiency, all of which would allow the State to act directly to ensure that firefighters succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u43	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u44	Mr President, our civil safety model, thanks to its coherent organisation and territorial location, particularly in rural areas, enables us to cope with everyday accidents as well as with exceptional crises. This model, which is based on 240,000 volunteer and professional firefighters, needs to be strengthened. The trade union organisations representing the professional firefighters have expressed the wish that the firefighter profession be further valued. On 6 November, a meeting on the issue of firefighters' pensions was held in the presence of the Minister of the Interior, the High Commissioner for Pensions, representatives of local employment authorities and trade union organizations. The Office of the Minister of the Interior and the Office of the Minister of Solidarity and Health jointly received the trade unions on the topic of emergency relief to people on 12 November. Finally, on 14 November, a tripartite meeting was held, in the presence of the Minister of the Interior, the employing communities, the Assembly of the French Departments, the Assembly of Mayors of France and the trade union organizations, to address the issue of the compensation regime for firefighters, in particular the fire premium. The discussion is therefore ongoing between the state, the employing communities and the trade union organizations on this subject. On the issue of operational pressure, which you are right to stress, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health launched, a year ago, a cycle of work which has already resulted in concrete measures: tend towards the generalisation of ambulance coordinators within the emergency medical aid services – SAMU; reduce the wait of firefighters for emergency services; explore the possibility of carrying out certain missions to two firefighters; to stimulate cooperation between fire and rescue services, UAS and regional health agencies; keep each other informed of developments in the resources in place in the territory, in particular as regards the evolution of hospital mapping; extend the scope of authorized first aid technical gestures to firefighters. At the same time, we evaluate the practice of reflex departures and emergency nursing protocols, as well as the management of outpatient deficiencies, to facilitate the work of our firefighters. Finally, a dialogue was initiated between the local authorities, employers of firefighters, and trade union organisations. The Government will take note of the proposals made by the representatives of the presidents of the fire and rescue management boards and the principal financiers of these public institutions, departmental councils, communes and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation, and will include in the necessary regulations the elements resulting from the ongoing negotiations, which I can assure you will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u45	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u46	Replace "dialogue" with "finance and means", and it will be perfect. This is what firefighters need, starting with a fire premium and additional staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u47	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor to put his question, No 801 on the use of voting machines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u48	In its road map published in September 2017, the Ministry of the Interior announced the Government's wish to ban voting machines. They have been included in the electoral code for the last fifty years, and have in fact been used for some fifteen years, in the context of experiments carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. However, incidents in the 2007 presidential and legislative elections led the Ministry of the Interior to introduce a moratorium on voting machines. Since then, no new commune has been able to acquire it. Today, electronic voting is a minority in the national territory: only 64 municipalities used it in the 2017 presidential election. But although these voting machines are limited in number, their persistence in our political life raises many criticisms on the part of the users: a more or less proven risk of fraud, difficulty in guaranteeing the secrecy of the vote, frequent errors of emancipation in the offices, and, more embarrassingly, impossibility of counting the votes to carry out a check. I do not intend to call for any suspicion as to the reliability of the voting machines, but I would like to explain that this climate of suspicion may exist in the cities concerned, when no reassuring words surround these devices. I have been asked by many elected representatives and residents of my constituency of Val-de-Marne, including the municipality of Villeneuve-le-Roi, which uses this voting system. Our fellow citizens are concerned about the use of such machines, in particular – in a legitimate way, it seems to me – because the software is set up in the town hall, while the prefecture only has a role to make sure that the housing containing the software is sealed when the machines are installed in the polling stations. I would like to draw your attention, Secretary of State, to the absurdity of the situation. Municipalities continue to use a voting system whose moratorium now prohibits the establishment of such a system. How do you explain this paradox? And what steps can we take to reassure our fellow citizens in the run-up to the upcoming municipal elections? Should we remove all the voting machines in the sixty-four municipalities that still use them? At a minimum, can you reassure us as to the role that the prefecture will play before the seals are placed, as soon as the voice counting software is set up?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u49	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u50	Today, according to the figures available to me, sixty-six communes are equipped with voting machines, three of which are located in Val-de-Marne, Monsieur Saint-Martin: Villeneuve-le-Roi, some of whose inhabitants have asked for you, Bry-sur-Marne and Arcueil. The list of municipalities authorized to use voting machines is drawn up in each department by the Prefect, in accordance with article L. 57-1 of the Electoral Code. Since 2008, a moratorium has frozen the scope of authorisation of these machines, while allowing municipalities already equipped to continue to use them. Between 2008 and 2012, thirty-two French municipalities renounced such use. The moratorium is due to criticism of these machines, in particular the impossibility of controlling the counting – control to which the Constitutional Council has had the opportunity to say its attachment – which may affect the voter's acceptance of this device. It is not easy to draw conclusions from technical judgements issued by qualified experts, let alone a doctrine of employment. The high level of cyber risk must be taken into account, with particular vigilance in the apprehension of voting operations carried out using voting machines. But the precautions that surround these machines, not only in their original design – since they are robust equipment cut off from any connection with the outside – but also in their operating procedures – specified by a circular from the Ministry of Interior upstream of each election – are likely to contain these risks, it seems to us. In the light of these findings, the moratorium which has frozen the scope of voting machines for eleven years seems to be a point of balance to date. This probably explains why the Ministry of the Interior receives as many requests from elected officials to strictly prohibit these machines as elected officials who want to develop their use and have new models approved. The reflection continues. The Ministry of the Interior is taking its part, integrating the security issues of information systems and therefore mobilizing the expertise of the National Agency for Information Systems Security, but also with the aim of finding a form of appeasement in this area – a concern that is also yours, Mr. As long as the reflection progresses, the moratorium is intended to be maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u51	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to put his question, No 808, on the safety of firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u52	Above all, I would like to pay tribute to the victims of the floods that occurred in the south of France a few days ago, and to thank the firefighters who helped and protected the inhabitants of the affected areas for their commitment. Let me also pay tribute to the courage of the three firefighters of Carpentras, in the Vaucluse, whose boat turned on a rescue mission. One of the three people they were helping was unfortunately reported missing, before his body was found lifeless. Let us return to the daily lives of the French. Too much is too much! Every day, firefighters are called into cities for the beginnings of fires or fires, but are actually caught in ambushes, and their trucks targeted. Lately, in Cavaillon, a commune in my constituency, the Vaucluse, the firefighters were called for garbage fires and fell into a veritable watch: rubbish and tires littered the road, and, as soon as they arrived, they received projectiles, stones and even a ball of petanque that blew up the windshield of their vehicle. The Vaucluse firefighters will soon be experimenting with the port of pedestrian cameras, a measure that I support. However, these cameras won't stop throwing petanque balls! Too many neighbourhoods in France have become areas of lawlessness where various traffickings flourish. Small caïds and dealers rule their law and terror among people who want to live peacefully. Would there be two Frances, one in which law and order reign, the other in which the rule of law no longer means anything, and where no one can live and circulate quietly? In all the communes of France, neighbourhoods are gangrenized by both drug trafficking and communalism. None, I say, of the city's policies that have been in place for so many years has solved the problem. Unfortunately, the Government's reactions to each of the various events have only trivialized the drifts. The announcements are not up to the stakes and have no long-term effect. Given the seriousness of the situation, is the Government finally ready to deploy a genuine "Marshall Plan" to abolish these areas of lawlessness?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u53	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u54	Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the tribute you paid to the firefighters' commitment to the recent weather, in particular to the Carpentras companies you mentioned. Firefighters, both professional and voluntary, are the victims of assaults, mostly voluntary assaults, threats and outrages, during relief missions to persons following family disputes, neighbourhood conflicts or traffic accidents. Often, such violence is the very act of the victims, I would like to stress. Mr Bouchet, you have mentioned the interventions in the cities, which are sometimes complicated, but the vast majority of the attacks by firefighters occur in a very different context and are caused by the victims themselves, who may find themselves in a state of alcoholism, suffering or psychological distress, for example. I would like to join you in saying that by targeting firefighters, who are the daily embodiment of republican values and principles based on solidarity and mutual assistance, it is the Republic that is being achieved. It is therefore up to the Republic to respond firmly and defend those who expose their lives every day to save the lives of others. The situation is all the more unbearable because behind the lives of firefighters, it is also the lives of the victims in care that can be put at risk. In this context, the Ministry of the Interior is pursuing a determined fight against attacks on women and men that guarantee the operational continuity of the public service, every day and throughout the country. For example, operational protocols have been strengthened that allow firefighters, fire brigades in Paris or the battalion of marine firemen in Marseilles to be accompanied by the forces of law and order whenever they intervene in sensitive sites, including in the cities. Measures have also been taken to facilitate the filing of complaints and to promote the systematic functional protection of firefighters. Of course, mobile cameras cannot prevent projectile jets, but they can reduce tension. That is why this system is widespread. Many firefighters have them. We are confident that the ongoing experiment will prove their usefulness. Finally, under no circumstances does the Government trivialize violence against firefighters in some very difficult neighbourhoods. On the contrary, we are waging a struggle in these areas, which is certainly aimed at protecting firefighters during their interventions, but also at fighting in an extremely effective way the trafficking that is the cause of the aggression. We are doing this thanks to the anti-narcotics plan that we are deploying throughout the national territory – including in Cavaillon and Carpentras, Mr. Bouchet – and which aims to strengthen the exchange of information and the definition of common objectives by the police and gendarmerie services, in order to dismantle trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u55	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to raise her question, No. 810, concerning Republican security companies Nos. 53 and 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u56	Before I ask my question, I would like to express my emotion, since France has just lost thirteen of its valuable children in Mali, thirteen soldiers having died in a helicopter accident during a combat operation against jihadism. My question is precisely about Islamist barbarism. We are at war, and there is no alternative: I want to speak, of course, of the war against Islamic totalitarianism that mobilizes us in Mali, but that has also mourned us in France. The threat is still present, and it will probably be for many years to come. To say otherwise would be irresponsible. In France, the attacks have killed at least 272 people since 2013, not to mention the thousands of people injured. In Mali, thirteen more men have just fallen. Men, women and children, I want, at this moment, to have a thought for each of them and for their families. Let us pay tribute to our intelligence services and our law enforcement agencies, who are showing cold blood and professionalism on a daily basis. In particular, I would like to acknowledge the courage of the women and men of the Republican security companies – CRS – 53 and 57, mobilized during the attacks in Trèbes and Carcassonne on 23 March 2018. Let us recall the facts: the terrorist first robbed a motorist in Carcassonne to steal his car, opened fire, injured the driver and killed the passenger. A few minutes later, four CRS of the Marseille 53 company were attacked. One of them was hit in the shoulder, had two broken ribs and a perforated lung. It will mark him for life, and I have a thought for him and for his family. During this terrible day, the CRS, the administrative staff and the civilians responded effectively to the numerous requests of the specialized services and the anti-terrorist prosecutor's office in Paris. Their actions and bravery were praised by all the French. That is why, Secretary of State, I solemnly ask you to award the medal of internal security, staple "National Police", promotion "Aude attacks 2018" to all the staff of these two Republican security companies. While the name of the terrorist will fall into oblivion, I want us to remember the names of these heroes, and of course Arnaud Beltrame, who sacrificed his life. France must recognize its heroes and martyrs. Faced with the propaganda of the Islamic State that glorifies its martyrs, our country needs its heroes – especially on this day when we are shocked by the horrific news of the death of thirteen soldiers in Mali.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u57	We are all in the shock of this atrocious news. It is the entire Barkhane force that is bereaved and, alongside it, the entire French nation. The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u58	Madam Member, the Government joins you in your sadness and in paying tribute to the news that has just fallen, namely the death in Mali of thirteen of our soldiers who are fighting terrorism. The President of the Republic paid immediate tribute to them. Our soldiers are fighting for our freedom all over the world, because terrorism is everywhere and often it is projected from areas of conflict where we are going to fight it. I measure every day the commitment of police officers, their professionalism, their courage. They do not save their time or their pain to enforce the laws of the Republic and to protect the French, sometimes at the risk of their lives. Therefore, the Minister of the Interior and I are committed to ensuring that this commitment is recognized and to translating into action the unwavering support that the State owes to them. I now come to your question. The attacks in Carcassonne and Trèbes on 23 March 2018 resulted in the death of four people, including Lieutenant-Colonel Gendarmerie Arnaud Beltrame, hero of the Nation. Several people were also injured by the terrorist, including a CRS agent, targeted, like his colleagues, because he was a policeman, because he represented the Republic. During these attacks, the police intervened with courage and professionalism. Steps have been taken to recognize their merit. The Homeland Security Medal was the subject of an exceptional promotion "Attentats Aude 2018". It was awarded, for CRS 53 police officers, to the four direct victims of the terrorist. However, you are right to recall the role played by the other police officers that day. Shortly after the attack on these officers, CRS 57 guard personnel came to assist the four victims and established security perimeters. In a second phase, the other CRS 57 officers, then CRS 53 officers, deployed. It was decided to award, as part of the promotion of 1 January 2019, the medal of internal security, bronze step to several of these officers of the CRS 57: three officers, twenty-five officers and peacekeepers and one cook worker. If everyone's commitment, each in his or her own position and in his or her own missions, is to be honoured, you will understand, Madam Member, that it is necessary to maintain his or her individual and singular character to this honour. It is by no means, be it certain, to ignore the admirable commitment of all on that day. The police also know that, beyond these symbolic and important acts, which are the remission of distinctions, the Republic is grateful to them for the extraordinary work they did on that day, just as they do every day of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u59	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u60	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. However, I am quite surprised that the commitment of the CRS on this occasion is forgotten. Yet they were the first to be injured, and their action allowed the counter-terrorism operations, in which several people died, including Arnaud Beltrame, to be engaged. I do not understand the refusal that you have just said to me again, when these people have also shown heroism. I don't understand why they're forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u61	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 818, concerning the police force in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u62	My question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior and concerns the police force in Le Mans and Sarthe. When he came to Le Mans in the first half of 2019, the Minister of the Interior announced the creation of seven new posts of the National Police in Le Mans – a decision that in the meantime was confirmed. However, according to various sources, it is some 30 posts that would be missing today in Le Mans and Sarthe. If I insist on this, it is that the crime data in Le Mans and Sarthe show between 2012 and 2018 a significant increase in the number of complaints for targeted offences and in certain territories: for example, intentional assault, violent theft without a weapon, theft with a trick or shooting, the use or resale of narcotics. The same applies to complaints of rape committed against persons who are adults or minors. I would like to know the number of posts currently assigned to the national police and gendarmerie in Le Mans and Sarthe and the number of vacancies or unfilled posts. I would also like to know whether there is a policy of allocation based on the evolution of crime and what the number is considered optimal in order to deter and prosecute offenders. Finally, I reiterate my request to grant additional resources to the border police, Le Mans being the first city served by the high-speed train – TGV – west of Paris and the Sarthe department constituting an motorway node between southern and northern Europe, making this territory sensitive to the activities of organised crime. I thank you in advance for your answer – which, I hope, will be precise and adapted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u63	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u64	Madam Member, as you know, security is a priority of the Government, and this is concretely reflected in each of the finance bills. Despite the budgetary context, more than 10,000 additional police officers and gendarmes will be recruited by the end of the quinquennium. The establishment of the daily security police will also increase the number of police officers and gendarmes on the ground, with the aim of providing tailored responses to local problems, in liaison with local security actors. The staff of the Departmental Directorate of Public Security in Le Mans stood at 376 as at 31 October 2019, compared to 373 at the end of 2016. The announcement made by the Minister of the Interior last June will come to fruition with the arrival of seven additional peacekeepers as early as 1 December and two others in March and April, respectively. In total, and at this stage of the forecasts, several additional arrivals are scheduled by next spring to strengthen the staff of the departmental directorate; On that date, the Commission will have a number of officers and guards in line with, or even greater than, its target strength. You mentioned your concern about the crime figures. In this regard, and while some data show that certain forms of crime are too strong, I would like to point out that in 2018 and in the first ten months of 2019 the intensity of property attacks was less in the Sarthe than at the regional level, and even at the national level. In the case of attacks on persons, their intensity was lower than the national average. Finally, the Border Police – PAF – conducts regular operations jointly with the territorial police, customs and gendarmerie. Since the beginning of 2019, nine coordinated and targeted operations and seven closures of the station have been organized. In 2018, the zonal brigade of the PAF railways was very present at Le Mans station, since it carried out 408 operations to secure this station. In the first nine months of 2019, it achieved 384. So you can count on our commitment, MP. Of course, the target numbers of the national police and gendarmerie are defined according to a number of parameters, which relate to the population and the level of crime registered in the territory concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u65	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u66	Thank you, Secretary of State, for these very specific points of answer. Even if we share the same concerns on the ground, it would still be necessary to set up a Eurodac terminal on the spot – there are now two in Rennes and one in Angers. There is indeed significant traffic, with networks and smugglers, in this station which corresponds to the first stop of the TGV west of Paris, and the presence of the PAF would make it possible to reduce these regrettable and dangerous phenomena for the population. That is why I reiterate my request and hope that the Le Mans station will receive special attention. Since Le Mans is close to Paris, it supports in a certain way the phenomena of the Paris suburbs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u67	I call Mr Dharréville to speak on his question No 796 on rail transport and the fight against pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u68	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, you know my commitment to the fight against air pollution. According to a recent INSEE study, one in two inhabitants of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region – PACA – would breathe too polluted air. Three sectors are, almost equivalently, responsible for the majority of regional emissions: road transport, for 23% of emissions, residential, for 25%, industry, for 24%. In the Bouches-du-Rhône, 85% of the population is exposed at their place of residence to PM 10 – a specific matter matter 10 – exceeding the indications set by the World Health Organization, WHO. Transport is the second source of pollution in the Gulf of Fos; It is the first at the national level, with 39% of emissions. However, the transport of people and goods by rail is being abandoned, in favour of an ever greater occupation of the road. According to the European Environment Agency, in emissions per passenger per kilometre, the train would emit about 14 grams of CO, compared with 68 grams for a bus and up to 140 grams for a car with an average of 1.5 passengers on board. The lack of infrastructure and investment encourages the public to use the car, whereas, often, alternative solutions would be possible, if there were again an accessible and high-quality public rail service. For example, the future of the Blue Coast line, which connects Miramas to Marseille, remains unclear, as the lack of maintenance has deteriorated the quality of the public service and participated in the disavowal by users of a mode of transport which remains one of the cleanest. While work is planned for the month of September 2020, another area of concern remains: the decrease in the number of members of the "lane brigade", whose mission is to identify maintenance requirements on the line. This decrease is due to the closure of the Fos-sur-Mer Brigade and its merger with the Port-de-Bouc Brigade. How, on the one hand, can we affirm the will to restore one line and, on the other, to deprive ourselves of the means of its proper functioning? On the other hand, the exploitation of this line cannot be limited to tourism alone. It appears that the line regularly serves as a reservoir of equipment to deal with shortages on the rest of the network. However, we need a high-performance line in a densely populated and business-intensive sector. Consideration should even be given to its possible development. Trade union representatives, elected representatives and users have been calling for consultation with all the parties concerned for several months, with no response from either the State or the region. This comes in addition to the need to develop the railway for access to the port of Fos and the industries of the area and the requirement to ensure the future of the Miramas yard – a subject on which we are numerous, elected, trade unions, associations, to ask for a round table. How will you respond to these requests and what steps will be taken to develop rail transport in our territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u70	Air pollution is indeed a major problem, both for the future of the planet and, in the immediate future, for public health, and I know your commitment to this, Mr President. Transport does have a strong responsibility for this phenomenon, and we have committed ourselves to supporting the establishment of low-emission zones, particularly in the territory of Aix-Marseille. One of the most useful tools in the fight against pollution is the conversion bonus. This device consists of aid for replacing an old vehicle with a newer, newer or second-hand model, which is less polluting. For new electric vehicles, this premium can be up to 11,000 euros. A total of about 600,000 aid was granted, amounting to more than EUR 1 billion. On the other hand, we are acting directly for the railway with the resumption of SNCF's debt, which began in the Finance Bill for 2020. At the end of the process, which will amount to EUR 35 billion, SNCF will have margins to reinvigorate. More specifically, the GPMM, the Grand port maritime de Marseille, has invested more than 140 million euros between 2009 and 2013, including 77 million euros in order to boost the railway service. The modal report has grown from 8% to 12% over the last four years and a railway motorway terminal is being installed in the eastern basins of Marseille with a view to continuing this progression. I would add that the port is a pioneer in connecting ships in order to reduce their emissions at dockside and that France is promoting the creation of a special zone in the Mediterranean where a fuel containing 0.1% sulphur and reduced emissions of nitrogen oxides would be imposed. These are all arguments that allow us to demonstrate our determination in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u71	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u72	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the elements that you have kindly brought to me. I have two questions left. The first is that of the Blue Coast line: it is important, on the one hand, to ensure its sustainability, on the other hand, to consider ways of increasing the capacity of passenger rail transport in this area. Perhaps you will have the opportunity, in the near future, to tell me more about this. My second question concerns the Grand Port maritime de Marseille. I do not disapprove of the investments that you mentioned, but you will agree that 12% of the freight taking over by rail arriving at the port of Marseille-Fos is a much lower figure than would be necessary. That said, the investment problem is not only for the GMPM, which has probably done a good part of the work required, but outside it: it is for this reason that I would like a round table on the future of triage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u73	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor to put her question, No 803, on the beacon dedicated to Morlaix Bay.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u74	I would like to draw your attention to the announced disappearance of the beacon of Morlaix, the well-named Charles-Cornic. In March 2018, a report by the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development called for a national plan to optimize and renew the fleet of lighthouses and beacons. In this context, the withdrawal of certain vessels is under consideration. The crews of these vessels are responsible for the laying and maintenance of coastal marking in their area of operation. The four sailors of the Morlaix beacon thus maintain 180 buildings – turrets at sea, cross-type works on land or floating buoys – which are essential to navigation in the maritime area from Côtes-d'Armor to Brignogan, which is very frequented by boaters, and where the coasts and tides can often prove dangerous. Morlaix Bay, in particular, is an echancrure characterized by its narrowness and low depth. GPS-type tools will never replace the visual reading of the marking, the quality of which is essential to arrive at a proper port. If tomorrow the beacons of Morlaix and Brest are replaced by a single ocean beacon based in Brest, we have every reason to fear that this quality will be affected. The area of intervention and the number of buildings to be taken over will be doubled; even a ship more powerful than the current beacons will take the day to go, for example, from Audierne to Locquirec. The response times will be considerably extended: in the event of a buoy extinguished or pollution, it will be necessary to wait several hours! Of course, a mark-up optimization objective can be designed. However, let me point out to you, Madam Secretary of State, that the modernization of the fleet in no way improves the mark-up. The maintenance of fixed support marine signalling establishments is primarily based on masonry and painting. It is human intervention, the know-how that ensures the quality of the marking, not the boat. It should also be noted that in France, the north of Finistère has a particularly high number of turrets. A wise sailor, a daring corsair, Charles Cornic worked during the Revolution to draw up a plan of Morlaix Bay, doing the marking at his own expense. How can we imagine the beacon that bears his name, not even withdrawn, but transferred to Normandy, Granville? The remark is not anecdotal: in addition to the importance of the historical reference, it highlights the incomprehensible nature of this decision. It gives the impression that the fleet is being redistributed according to budgetary rather than operational criteria. I cannot accept that the coastline of my constituency is an adjustment variable. In addition, four sailors will have to adapt and change their home port. How can they respond to their concerns? More generally, the withdrawal of ships raises concerns that this service may eventually be outsourced to private providers. In passing, I would like the department to clarify its position and intentions on this point. I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to take stock of this issue and to consider a reorganisation of the fleet that maintains a beacon dedicated to Morlaix Bay.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u75	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u76	It is indeed crucial to modernise the weaponry of lighthouses and beacons if we are to sustain the State's action in the field of maritime signs. The fleet is now heterogeneous, composed of recent and obsolete ships. An overall reflection on the organization of marine signage was therefore initiated on the basis of a departmental inspection report. The objective is to offer the best possible service to the users of the sea by optimising our nautical means, both in number and in performance and in location. Reducing the ecological impact is also at the heart of this reflection. The fleet will thus evolve to be better adapted to the current needs of signage, with the acquisition of new beacons. Under no circumstances will the level of service be degraded. The draft new allocation scheme, based on preparatory work and an optimization study carried out with the assistance of external experts, will be presented at the end of the year. With regard to the marking missions in Morlaix Bay, the main option is to entrust them to a new coastal beacon that would cover the areas of Brest and Morlaix. He would be armed all year round by integrating the two current crews. Finally, the optimization of the marking is an issue in itself, whether it is the positioning and characteristics of the tags or the modalities and techniques of maintenance. The Interregional Directions of the Sea are well aware of this and work with their teams.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u77	Mr Eric Woerth, speaking on the financial consequences of the abandonment of the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport project, raised his question, No. 809.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u78	In March 2018, I carried out a piece and on-site check at the Directorate General of Civil Aviation to try to shed light on the total cost of abandoning the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport project. Almost two years after this decision, we are still largely unclear. A few weeks ago, the State presented its decisions on major redevelopment work required at Nantes-Atlantique Airport. According to the consultation initiated in recent months, it must also make new expenditure on compensation for residents, in particular soundproofing aid and resale aid to take account of the depreciation of immovable property. To this end, a Nantes-Atlantic compensation fund has just been established, in the form of a public interest grouping. Can you tell us what resources this fund will have? What is the assessment of the budgetary cost to the State? The consultation also resulted in numerous technical requirements governing the future airport concession: extension of the runway by 400 metres, renovation of the terminal, acquisition of 35 hectares of land... Can you give us an estimate of the cost of these operations? Will they all be the sole responsibility of the new dealership? In addition, it is recalled that the Notre-Dame-des-Landes project, to which you have renounced, offered him prospects for significant financial return for the local authorities. Today, what financial return do you expect over the duration of the operation? Finally, can you inform us of the progress of the negotiations with the current concessionaire, Aéroports du Grand Ouest, a subsidiary of the Vinci Group, on the financial consequences of the termination of the current contract? In a communication to the Finance Committee presented in March 2018, I noted that the concession contract contains deed clauses that would require payment of a considerable amount of compensation, but that there are significant trading margins for the State. The decision to terminate was taken almost two years ago: can you indicate at least one order of magnitude of the cost to public finances?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u79	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u80	The exceptional compensation measures decided by the Government meet the expectations expressed by our fellow citizens during the public consultation. Some will be directly responsible for the future concessionaire. Others, including the additional soundproofing aid you mentioned, will be financed by the compensation fund managed by the newly created public interest group. This fund will mainly be abounded by the future concessionaire. Until the designation of the fund, the State will, on a transitional basis, contribute to the fund each year: the corresponding appropriations are included in programme 203. Local and regional authorities which wish to do so can also contribute to this. In this connection, allow me to welcome in particular the announcement by the President of the Loire-Atlantique Departmental Council, who will contribute EUR 5.8 million. The airlines will also participate: in July, the amount of the air noise tax applied in Nantes-Atlantique was increased from 10 to 20 euros, increasing the capacity to finance the soundproofing aid allowed by the airport's sound discomfort plan. The 2020 Finance Bill will set a higher rate if funding needs warrant. In addition, you are asking me about the consequences of the termination of the current concession contract. In April 2018, a Council of State opinion set out the principles that will govern the State's determination of the termination compensation payable to Aéroports du Grand Ouest. On 24 October, the State terminated the concession on grounds of general interest, with delayed effect until the designation of the future concessionaire, paving the way for discussions on compensation. You will understand that I cannot yet speak on a subject that must first be discussed in the context of the contractual relationship between the State and its concessionaire. Of course, when the time comes, I will gladly come to inform the National Assembly of the cost of breaching the concession contract. Finally, I would like to point out that no public subsidy will be paid to the future concessionaire, neither to carry out the redevelopment work of the airport, whose initial investment cost is estimated at several hundred million euros, nor to operate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u81	Mr Yannick Kerlogot, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 802, on the proliferation of tower sauercas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u82	I would like to draw your attention to the proliferation of towers in the Finistère and now in the Côtes-d'Armor. We lack scientific studies on this phenomenon, and our farmers suffer the consequences. In Brittany, this species is indeed causing considerable damage to crops, especially in maize plots; This spring saw this again. In addition, it is increasingly investing in stabulations, creating significant health risks. Finally, it nests in the chimneys, which poses safety problems to the inhabitants of the affected communes, as these obstructions lead to fire departures. Since the Order of 29 October 2009, the saucas of the towers has been a protected species. Nevertheless, the destruction of tower sauercas is regularly authorized under derogatory prefectural orders. For example, in 2017, an authorization to collect 4000 birds over two years was granted for the entire Côtes-d'Armor department. This derogation ended on 1 June 2019; the prefect has granted a new one. It must be noted that this solution, the only one proposed by the State today, is no longer sufficiently effective. Before taking these orders, it would be essential to know the numbers of the sauerca populations and to assess the effect of the levies on them, as well as the damage they cause. To date, however, no scientific studies have been conducted to determine the evolution of this species or the causes of its apparent proliferation. To remedy this lack of data, several estimates have been made since 2011. In 2018, the Côtes-d'Armor Departmental Council and the Chamber of Agriculture conducted an important assessment of the sauerca populations. This evaluation was entrusted to the departmental federation of pest protection groups, in partnership with the departmental federation of hunters. It was able to identify 2306 gull pairs of towers in an area comprising 83 communes and found that the species is more present in the western part of the department. While these surveys provide an overview of the evolution of the species, they lack scientific value. In February, the National Council for Nature Protection issued an opinion in which it considered "inconceivable that the relevant university laboratories in Brest and Rennes had not already been asked to launch a research programme by mobilizing European funds, the ministries of agriculture and ecology, the region", departments and local authorities. Madam Secretary of State, can you act on the deconcentrated services in order to initiate a research programme which analyses, in particular, the relationship between human activities and the explosion of the saucas populations of the towers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u83	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u84	Member of the European Parliament, the Tour Saucas is a species protected in France by the Order of 29 October 2009 on the list of birds protected throughout France. As such, its destruction is prohibited except as provided for in the Environmental Code. This species is also protected at European level, being included in Annex II, Part B of the Birds Directive, which excludes any decommissioning of the species in the short or medium term. In western France, particularly in Brittany, the population of saucas of the towers has increased sharply and is causing damage to crops. In order to limit them, derogations from the prohibition of destruction of the species are granted in Finistère, Côtes-d'Armor and Morbihan. However, this situation is not sustainable. Long-term control of tower sauerca populations involves reasoned methods of prevention and control and must necessarily involve the reduction of access to food resources at the farm level. A study analysing the demographic dynamics of tower saucas and identifying the most suitable solutions has just been initiated. Piloted by the regional department of my Ministry, the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing, in Brittany, entrusted to the University of Rennes, it has three components: the estimation of the abundance, distribution and evolution of the population of the saucas of the towers at the scale of Brittany, the understanding of the movements of these saucas, in particular their use of agricultural environments, by GPS tracking of a sample of birds, and the analysis of their diet, in relation to its impact on agricultural holdings – in this regard, the Chamber of Agriculture of Brittany will support the study by facilitating the census of the damage. The study is expected to be launched in January 2020. At the end of the first year, an analysis report will be issued. Recommendations for action, including preventive action, should be included.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u85	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Viry, to put his question, No 812 on rail mobility in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u86	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, for decades, rail transport has been built as a star around the Parisian network. To reach Lyon from the Vosges, it takes 3 hours 45 minutes by car while the journey can hardly be made by train, especially since the TGVs between Nancy and Montpellier and between Metz and Nancy were abolished two years ago. This train journey requires a connection to Nancy and to transit through Paris, changing train stations, or, once a day, via Marne-la-Vallée. You will agree that this is not acceptable from both an economic and an ecological point of view. My first question therefore concerns the north-south rail axis for the Lorrains. In order to promote a quality TGV connection for Vosges and Nacéiens at Belfort-Montbéliard TGV station, the two regions Burgundy-Franche-Comté and Grand Est are making efforts to consolidate this line. It is now necessary to provide rapid service in TER, which is the responsibility of the regions, as well as correct correspondence with the TGV, which is the responsibility of the SNCF and the operators of the main lines once the opening to competition has been achieved. Could you present us with the Government's strategy on this issue, as well as a timetable? When considering the mobility bill, I also hoped that TER services and national high-speed and intercity services could be better coordinated through the creation of a steering body, in order to enable the regions to mobilise the right equipment and offer optimised correspondence to users. It is essential to give the regions the means to organise themselves and to optimise public expenditure by forcing the operators of main lines to organise themselves with the operators of TER, which would make it possible to postpone large flows of passengers not only to the latter, but also to the TGV companies, whose service is now seriously in deficit. Does the Government intend to make the coordination of TGVs and TERs a priority? It is on this condition that we will encourage our fellow citizens to take public transport and that we will pursue an eco-responsible policy. On 1 July last, while travelling to Vittel, Élisabeth Borne, then Minister of Transport, launched the Grenelle des mobilités. Grenelle here, Grenelle there: great announcements, communication, but finally very few results. The Government is not honouring its commitments to the regions, particularly in the rail sector. Thus, in the Greater East region, no less than 800 million euros are needed to maintain the traffic conditions of many lines. Otherwise, they will be closed or severely slowed down. The Greater East region has already put its hand in the pocket to replace the state by financing emergency work. It is now time for the Government to shoulder its responsibilities by adopting a real rail transport strategy, which meets the republican requirement of land-use planning and rail traffic for all. What is your policy and your orientation for the south service of the north-east quarter of the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u87	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u88	Mr. Deputy, the Government is fully aware of the importance of rail links to ensure the cohesion of our territories. The situation of the secondary rail network is of concern; This is why the Government has instructed the Prefect François Philizot to draw up an inventory of these lines and the necessary investments. It has also initiated a round of discussions with each region to develop concrete and operational territorial action plans, line by line. These plans will be based on a range of solutions: the heavy regeneration of the most structural small lines, the transfer of management to the regions, as provided for in the law on the orientation of mobility for voluntary regions, the levers identified by SNCF Network, in its "methodological kit", in order to reduce the costs of managing these lines while preserving the quality of the service, or the introduction of new mobility offers on these routes if the stakeholders consider it relevant. The Government is also very committed to the quality of the dialogue that it is essential to establish between local authorities and railway operators in order to coordinate TERs, Intercity and TGVs. To this end, the law for a new railway pact has set up committees to monitor the provision of services to transport operators. With regard to TGV links between Lorraine and the south of France via Lyon, several developments, mainly affecting the east and south-east of the TGV network, have been recorded since December 2018. At least until 2023, the Gare de Lyon Part-Dieu must be the subject of important works designed to de-naturalize it, which will require the closure of two lanes on eleven. The changes made by Voyages SNCF have led to numerous preliminary exchanges with the elected representatives of the regions concerned in order to arrive at satisfactory solutions: from Nancy, a TGV Strasbourg-Marseille-Nice and the extension to Metz of the TGV Montpellier-Strasbourg, the creation of a direct TGV Nancy-Lyon via Marne-la-Vallée offering connections to Marseille, a new offer of two daily round trips in TER between Nancy and Dijon with connections to the Mediterranean arch.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u89	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor to raise her question, No. 805, on the requalification of RN 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u90	My question was to Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, Secretary of State for Transport. I would like to associate my colleague Laetitia Romeiro Dias. The section of the RN 20 that drains populations from southern Essonne to the north of the department is marked by degraded urbanization as well as significant car congestion. It is estimated that 70000 vehicles operate on this section every day, not to mention the transit of heavy goods vehicles, although prohibited between Linas and Massy, but which remains important because the RN 20 is an alternative route to the A10. This traffic comes to saturation, even though it is forced to increase sharply due to continuing local demographic pressure. A partnership project to requalify urban boulevards was launched in 2009, through the creation of a joint study union that has drawn up a master plan accepted by all parties. In particular, it aimed to connect the Arpajon and Massy stations in forty minutes against more than an hour and a half, thanks to the creation of a public transport in a clean site. On 12 June, at a meeting between representatives of the State, the Île-de-France region, the Essonne department and the Paris-Saclay and Cœur d'Essonne agglomerations, the Île-de-France region took action to abandon public transport on its own site, Arpajon-Massy, yet inscribed in the plan contract between the State and the Île-de-France region 2015-2020. This announcement calls into question more than 17 years of collegial work by the local and regional authorities concerned, who have been committed to building a master plan to meet the needs of the population and to address the demographic and environmental challenges inherent in this axis. In accordance with the terms and conditions, local elected officials have thus modified their respective local planning plans in order to densify the habitat in the vicinity of RN 20. While the cost of studies to design this master plan on which the many parties had agreed amounted to 8 million euros, that 10,000 dwellings were programmed in the canton of Montlhéry, which the department has already financed 11 million euros of works, the Île-de-France region has stopped this project, neglecting the heart and south of Essonne and abandoning the populations of the great crown. How can we justify the abandonment of a project crucial for Estonian mobility which, according to the terms of the State-region plan Ile-de-France, was to enter its operational phase? What answer can be given to our fellow citizens in the South of France, who face daily significant and continuous difficulties in their professional, student, cultural and personal travels?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u91	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u92	Jean-Baptiste Djebari, Member of Parliament, has asked me to reply to you about the project to create a public transport on a clean site between Arpajon and Massy, envisaged to decongest the old RN 20. It should be noted from the outset that the relevant section of the former RN 20 has been integrated into the departmental road network as a result of the Local Liberties and Responsibilities Act 2004. With regard to the clean site public transport project, studies had been included in the State-region plan contract to analyse the feasibility and conditions of integration. Only studies are planned, not any work. On June 12, 2019, the Île-de-France region announced that it would not fund this project. However, the CPERs are part of a co-financing approach between the State and the region, which is the main player. Île-de-France Mobilitys, dependent on the region as the organizing authority, must approve public transport projects in Île-de-France. It is therefore up to the region to state the reasons for its decision, which I asked it to follow up on your legitimate inquiry. Beyond this case, the State remains mobilized in favour of the territory of Essonne by multiple inscriptions in the State-region plan contract. Financing is planned for operations along the RN 118, carried out under the supervision of the departmental council of Essonne, whose action I welcome. The State will provide 9 million credits for the redevelopment of Christ-de-Saclay and 10 million euros for the reconfiguration of the Ulis Ring. The State is honouring its commitments to these two projects, since €6 million was made available for the redevelopment project in Saclay, which led to the start of the project. In addition, €3 million will be allocated this year to the Ring des Ulis. With regard to public transport, three notable operations are included in the plan contract: the Tram 12 Express, a new tram train between Massy and Évry, for a budget of 475 million euros, of which almost 143 million are borne by the State; a high-level bus service between Viry-Châtillon and Corbeil-Essonnes, the infrastructure component of which includes a 21 % participation of the State; the RER B and D master plans, which will greatly improve the operation of these two specially borrowed lines. Far from being inactive, the State is therefore firmly involved in strengthening the mobility offer in your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u93	Mr Jean Lassalle, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 822, on RN 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u94	Madam Secretary of State, let me once again mention one of the most painful aspects of my long public life: the channels of communication between Bordeaux and Zaragoza, especially between Pau and Jaca. The State built the Somport tunnel twenty-five years ago, one of the longest in Europe, even in the world. I've been a big part of it. Unfortunately, he forgot the second phase: the upgrading of this extremely dangerous road. Some municipalities have been re-membered, houses have been sold, others have become unsold due to truck flows, but the state has never done anything. Four Presidents of the Republic have succeeded each other: nothing. While nothing has been included in the State-region plan contract, does the Government intend to take steps to improve the link between Pau and Oloron, given that the motorway project between Pau and Oloron has been abandoned, as well as the development project south of Oloron? At the same time, the president of the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region, Alain Rousset, used the railway line, which had been inaugurated in 1928 as a weapon of propaganda, suggesting that it would return to service. Unfortunately, the Spaniards do not want it: Mr Rousset has reopened a portion of the line, but 90 kilometres are still closed to traffic and will remain closed. Currently, therefore, the Aspe Valley and the Oloron region do not have communication channels adapted to our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u95	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u96	Mr President, your question concerns both the development of the RN 134 between Pau and the Spanish border and the railway line towards Canfranc. You are asking that the state increase its investments in these two projects. However, as you know, such a course of action could only be taken at the expense of other operations. Moreover, we are already very active and have allocated to the work of RN 134 a first envelope of 26 million euros for the period 2015-2020. This envelope includes EUR 11 million from the State to secure the Pau-Oloron section over 10 kilometres, thanks to a 7-metre widening of the roadway; €7 million from the State to develop certain points of the route and improve signage; and EUR 8 million, including 6 million from the State, to abolish crossing No 24 on the town of Herrère. A second investment of €77 million will be included in the next CPER, whose complexity requires further studies to which the State will contribute €7.5 million. In addition, the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region and the Autonomous Community of Aragon have been working for some 15 years to revive the railway line towards Canfranc. Given its cross-border dimension, it is primarily a regional project – even if the two states are associated with it – and, according to the conclusions of the Infrastructure Guidance Council, of which everyone here has welcomed the work, the State does not intend to participate in this operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u97	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u98	However, I can assure you of our support, at the highest possible level, for obtaining European credits. We have already obtained EUR 10 million under the Connecting Europe Facility for the period 2017-2023 for the entire Pau-Saragosse axis, which funds environmental and socio-economic impact analyses between Pau and the Somport tunnel or studies of modernisation and interoperability preliminary to the reopening of the tunnel. The State is therefore fully mobilized to develop the routes across the Aspe Valley, in line with the reality of local mobility needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u99	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u100	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Of course, you don't have much to do with this terrible case. I welcome the removal of the crossing, but the only thing I'm asking you is to help us shed light on the fabric of lies that we've been developing for a quarter of a century – I beg you. The state has failed in all its commitments and Mr Rousset, the president of the New Aquitaine region, lies like a tooth plucker. Please help us establish the facts and arrange the road and the railway! It'll be a good start.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u101	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor to put her question, No 800, concerning Mayotte's participation in the Indian Ocean Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u102	On 22 July, at the Elysée, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, and the President of the Union of Comoros Azali Assoumani presented the framework agreement between France and the Union of Comoros, which aims to strengthen diplomatic relations between our two countries. The objectives set by this agreement give a strong place to the development of regional cooperation. To achieve this, the recognition of Mayotte's French membership by the Comoros is a necessary prerequisite: otherwise, Mayotte will remain isolated from its regional environment and will not experience harmonious development. To this end, a road map has been developed. It includes several actions, including the inclusion of Mayotte in the Indian Ocean Commission. This intergovernmental organization, set up in 1984, brings together five countries: Madagascar, the Union of the Comoros, Mauritius, Seychelles and, since 1986, France, represented by La Réunion. France finances 40% of the organisation's operating budget, of which it is the largest contributor. IOC is a key player in regional cooperation and intervenes in many areas, including maritime security and economic development. It is now at a turning point, since its mandate has been redefined to better respond to the major issues of the moment and the renewal of its executive was foreseen in Moroni's declaration on the future of the IOC on August 3. Madam Secretary of State, as you know, France will have a decisive role to play in this renewal, because it will have to propose a new Secretary-General. In addition, the Mahorese elected representatives unanimously claimed the inclusion of Mayotte, a French department since 2011, in the IOC, where she could legitimately represent France in the same way as La Réunion. A follow-up meeting to the road map had recently been held, as had the appointment of a diplomatic adviser and a new ambassador for regional cooperation in the Indian Ocean area. In the light of these events, could you tell us how the Government intends to act to allow Mayotte to be included in the IOC?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u103	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u104	Mayotte's full integration into his regional environment is a priority for the French Government and for the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who works closely with the Maori elected representatives. The fundamental instrument of this regional integration has been the Indian Ocean Commission, the IOC, which France has been one of the five members since 1986 with Seychelles, Mauritius, Comoros and Madagascar. The IOC has gained visibility and efficiency and fosters cooperation among its members, mainly in the areas of combating global warming, connectivity and maritime security. Under Article 1 of the Protocol of Accession of 10 January 1986, France is a member of the Protocol in order to enable the Meeting to participate in regional cooperation. For the moment, Mayotte does not sit on the Council of Ministers of the IOC because of the opposition of the Comoros, in a context where decisions are taken unanimously. Despite this, France is working with determination to enable Mayotte to benefit from the projects led by the IOC. This request was agreed in principle by the Comoros during President Azali's visit to Paris in July 2019. On the occasion of the ministerial retreat on the future of the IOC held in the Comoros from 1 to 3 August 2019, our delegation obtained an agreement in principle from all members, including the Union of Comoros, for the Mayotte association with IOC projects. A project identification work has been carried out, which has led to an initial focus on two ongoing IOC projects that could benefit Mayotte: one on human and animal health and another on food safety. These proposals were presented to the Mayotte Departmental Council and approved by Mayotte. Be aware that we will remain fully mobilized for Mayotte's participation in IOC activities. We intend to address this issue again at the next IOC ministerial meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u105	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u106	Thank you for your answer. I would like to commend the Government's initiative and its activism to improve diplomatic relations between France and the Union of the Comoros. I appreciate the fact that the Government has involved parliamentarians in the diplomatic negotiations and in the follow-up to the road map to the framework agreement. Believe me, we'll make good use of it. As you know, Mayotte is at the heart of this relationship. The defence of French sovereignty over Mayotte is a priority that you have well grasped. I am convinced that Mayotte has assets, such as the geostrategic position she occupies in the Mozambique Canal, her relationship with East Africa – French and European land – or the youth of her population, which will enable her to become a true actor in her regional environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u107	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to put her question, No 811, on the Jurassian timber industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u108	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to know your intentions regarding the response to the dramatic consequences of global warming for the forests of France in general and the Haut-Jura in particular, which are felt both in terms of the environment and in terms of the economy. The forest in my department is composed largely of softwoods, such as spruce and pectinate fir, and hardwoods such as boxwood and ash. These species are now threatened by the spread of many parasites, including a beetle called scolyte, which digs galleries under the bark of the spruces, cutting off the circulation of sap; the lack of water involved in the worsening of the drying of the tree, it no longer produces enough sap to evacuate the parasite. In Burgundy-Franche-Comté and the Great East, there were 2 million cubic metres of Scolyte spruce in 2018. In Burgundy-Franche-Comté, 60% of the public forest and 40% of the private forest are affected. Buis pyral, which increases the risk of fire, and ash chalarosis are other threats to our ecosystem and to the economic stability of our territories. The scale of the epidemic has hit all the players in the wood industry hard by lowering prices on the market; The forestry communes, which derived revenues from the sale of spruce, are forced to postpone their investments due to the sharp decline in their revenues. Minister, the forest is in crisis. It is in order to ensure the future of future generations that we must preserve this environmental heritage. I therefore urge you to launch a plan to safeguard the timber sector and to respond to the budgetary emergencies of the forest communes with cash aid, which could be negotiated with the Bank of the Territories. We are only at the beginning of the crisis; consideration should then be given to the replacement of the missing species.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u109	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u110	Thank you for your question, which is both a topical question, given the current situation, and a question to be answered in substance. The forest of your department, which has 250,000 hectares of forested land, including a third of the stands of softwood, is affected by both global warming and scolytes. To date, on the two regions Burgundy-Franche-Comté and Grand Est, nearly 7,000 hectares – mainly spruce stands – have undergone the infestation of scolytes, which is considerable. I am fully aware of the current situation in the forest-to-forest sector. At the High Council for Forestry and Timber on 8 October, I announced an exceptional support plan for the sector, which has two components: in the short term, aid of €6 million for the exploitation and marketing of wood colonised by the scolytes, the effects of which we will assess in a few months; In the medium term, EUR 10 million in aid for the reconstruction of the stands, with an intervention rate of 80%. We have initiated discussions with the regional councils of the Greater East and Burgundy-Franche-Comté regions to register this aid as part of their regional rural development programmes. These insect attacks, together with the difficulties caused by climate change, must lead us to question the renewal of our forest stands. Indeed, according to IPCC reports – an intergovernmental expert group on climate change – species in French forests are not the most suitable for global warming. The road map I have communicated to the Conseil supérieur de la forêt et du bois therefore provides for the submission of a plan to adapt French forests next March. This will be one of the major challenges facing the future director general of the National Forestry Board, the NFB, whom you will be hearing and who will take up his duties in the coming weeks. We have two challenges: the first, which we must take seriously, is that of the battle against the Scolytes that we carry out through the contingency plan; The second is the adaptation, in the medium and long term, of our forests currently composed of softwoods and hardwoods to climate change. I am therefore in favour of your proposals. Together, by bringing together the forest communities, the NFB, private owners and the National Forest Ownership Centre, we will win the war against disease and adapt the forest to climate change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u111	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u112	I have noted the announcement of a EUR 16 million support plan: this is a start, but I hope you are aware that it will not be sustainable. Today, experiments, such as planting different varieties, are needed to study their climate adaptation. Another subject that matters to me is the support of the forest communes, whose revenue losses are catastrophic. Minister, can't you get cash assistance from the Bank of the Territories of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. It's fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u113	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to put her question, No 821, on the impact of non-treatment zones on agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u114	The agricultural world suffers. He suffers from an alarming lack of consideration, even though he is one of the guarantors of French influence throughout the world. In the Vaucluse, farmers express their deep concern at the stacking of constraints and increases in charges and taxes. Mr Minister for Agriculture, the non-treatment zones are a fatal blow to our crops. They will cause considerable loss of land area: in some areas, almost 20% of agricultural land would be rendered unusable. The concerns of professionals in the sector are shared by all agricultural disciplines. I have recently tabled a bill on this serious issue in order to alert the Government. In the wheat sector, some do not hesitate to mention the killing of agriculture. In the wine-growing world, which I would remind you is one of the first posts in the French trade balance, this emotion is also particularly sharp. For our wine growers, non-treatment areas will lead to the grubbing up of several thousand hectares, since untreated vine feet can cause disease. In the Vaucluse, the Federation of Trade Unions of Wine Producers AOC – controlled label of origin – of the South-East estimated that the presence of areas of non-treatment from 3 to 10 meters generated the loss of 10 to 14% of the surface in hectares planted in AOC. In terms of revenue loss, the financial balance sheet is overwhelming! In the other agricultural fields, estimates are equally bleak: for the Vaucluse alone, a potential loss of nearly 630 million euros per year is to be expected – it is about 209 million bottles of wine and 250,000 tonnes of fruit production that are likely to be lost. Minister, let us not reverse the trends: it is the cities that eat up our cultures and not the other way around. The establishment of non-treatment zones undermines our food sovereignty and resonates as a fatal cutlet for the agricultural world. Does the Government intend to give up this dramatic provision?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u115	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u116	I hear your cry of despair, Member, and your support for French agriculture, but be careful not to add too much. You mention the killing of thousands of hectares, and the lack of consideration for farmers: some of the population, perhaps, but neither the National Assembly, nor the Senate, nor the Government, whose farmers know they have the full support. On the substance, it was the Council of State, the highest administrative court, which, considering that residents were now under-protected, imposed measures on the Government. It is not a blush of the Government or of the majority of the National Assembly, but rather an injunction of the Council of State. We intend to respond to this with rationality and, therefore, on the basis of the studies carried out by the National Agency for Health Security of Food, Environment and Labour – ANSES – which is an independent authority. As a precautionary principle and in order to ensure the preservation of the health of the residents, the ANSES recommends the establishment of non-treatment zones at 10 meters of the houses for the high crops – vine, arboriculture – and 5 meters for the low crops. These distances may be reduced to 5 and 3 metres, or even zero, respectively, if walls or hedges exist, or if riparian charters have been signed. That is the situation we are working on. We do not want to depart from these figures. Beyond 10 metres, the measurements are no longer justified, as if the products were harmful more than 10 metres away, they would not be granted a marketing authorisation. I want to be as rational as possible. Tomorrow, farmers will demonstrate because they consider that they are too denigrated, not sufficiently supported. I hear this movement; I fight every day against "gribashing", as I believe I have shown since I took office, under the authority of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. At the 2019 edition of the international trade fair for agriculture, the ministry's stand was in this direction: let's stop the agribashing! This weekend, in the Drôme, farms were again attacked and burned. It can't last any longer! The justice system must be intransigent, farmers must lodge complaints and the gendarmerie must receive these complaints; In some territories, observatories to combat agribashing have been set up. I'm just saying, stop! We must work towards reconciliation between urban and rural areas; It is not possible for a minority to attack and appease farmers. This morning, I would like to say again here in the National Assembly how much farmers are doing a remarkable job, how sustainable French agriculture is, how safe and healthy the food it allows. Today, there are too many conflicts and we must reconcile urban and rural areas, agriculture and society, farmers and citizens: that is what this is all about. I hear and understand the anger of farmers. The Government is trying to respond in a rational manner: we have appealed to all municipal ordinances to prohibit the use of pesticides in areas up to 100 metres around the homes, as they were illegal. It is not up to the mayor to decide, and there is no question of conducting a political policy on such a serious subject. Everyone, including farmers, has children: I do not believe for a moment that those who work on the land and in the land want to pollute it. We all know that farmers would like to do without plant protection products, which are very expensive. The agro-ecological transition is moving forward: there have never been so many conversions to bio and sectors that are part of a process of high environmental value certification. Our fellow citizens must understand that agriculture is moving, but that it is changing at the rate of the seasons, not at the rate of tweets. This is the difference between agriculture and the speed society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u117	Thank you, Minister, for fighting agribashing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u118	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor to raise her question, No 804, on security expenditure for independent festivals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u119	My question is to Mr Franck Riester, Minister of Culture. Following the attacks of 2015, security measures have increased significantly to regulate festivals: the police and gendarmerie, at the expense of the State, have been strengthened, as have the private security officers, who are responsible for the organizers. In May 2018, a circular from the Ministry of the Interior clarified the conditions of employment and compensation of law enforcement personnel when they intervene in the vicinity of a cultural event. In the field, festival organizers found that the publication of this circular was followed by an increase in the billing of services. For example, in Burgundy-Franche-Comté, the No Logo festival has seen its security charges increase by 42% in three years. Unfortunately, this is no exception, and the sustainability of several festivals is now at risk. The impact is real for a sector already weakened by strong competition, a significant increase in artists' fees and a decrease in subsidies from local authorities. The implementation of the circular is also criticized by the organizers, who are holding too late discussions with the law enforcement agencies and significant differences, both temporal and territorial, which make it difficult to draw up a forecast budget. An intervention fund for the security of cultural sites and events has been established to support funding. However, the implementing decree states that "expenditure on reimbursements of benefits carried out by the police and gendarmerie... cannot be taken into account in the calculation of the aid paid". It is precisely this additional cost that poses a problem for the organisers. In their report published in February 2019, my colleagues Brigitte Kuster and Bertrand Bouyx put forward several proposals, such as the extension and increase of the emergency fund and its reorientation towards investment, or a clarification of the law, harmonization of practices and anticipation of the employment of the indemnified police services. Mr Minister, I would like to know whether new measures in favour of these festivals are possible and envisaged, and to what extent the proposals contained in this report could be taken up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u120	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u121	I would be grateful if you would excuse Franck Riester, whose answer I will give you. Festivals are great moments of gathering around culture: every year, our fellow citizens wait for them to meet the artists. For a territory, festivals are also strong markers of identity and attractiveness, both cultural, economic and tourist. The Government is particularly mobilised on the subject of the security costs of festivals and their possible take over by the intervention fund for the security of cultural sites and events, created by the decree of 18 March 2019 and which was endowed with 2 million euros in the draft finance law for 2020. The aid shall take into account the additional costs associated with the strengthening of security measures and, exceptionally, the loss of revenue relating to cancellations of performances due to unforeseen reasons relating to public policy. On the other hand, as you point out, expenses relating to the reimbursement of state-provided policing services – indemnified law enforcement services – cannot be taken into account for the calculation of the aid paid. On the ground, the circular of 15 May 2018, known as Collomb Circular, which derives from article L. 211-1 of the Code of Internal Security and its implementing decree and which describes the procedures for the use of indemnified law enforcement services, has encountered some difficulties of application. In order to reduce the difficulties that had been encountered during the 2018 season, the Deputy Regional Directors of Cultural Affairs, in their capacity as safety and security focal points, were invited by the Director General of Artistic Creation, in a note of 27 May 2019, to strengthen their links with the local focal points of the Ministry of the Interior, in order to best accompany the festival organizers in their dialogue with the services of the prefectures. In this context, an exceptional joint follow-up has also been set up between the central administration departments of the Ministry of Culture and those of the Ministry of the Interior, through the appointment of a reference prefect, responsible in particular for the most sensitive issues. The Ministries of the Interior and Culture have thus worked together to remove the ambiguities of the circular at the origin of the difficulties of application. However, maintaining such an exceptional arrangement on an ongoing basis raises questions, and with regard to the challenge of this circular, the Government is still awaiting a decision by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u122	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor to put her question, No 797, on the overmortality of industrial pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u123	My question is to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, although I have noted that she will not answer me today. The regional health agency – ARS – and the regional health observatory – ORS – of the Pays-de-la-Loire have published the results of two studies on the state of health of the inhabitants of the urban community of the Nazairian region and of the estuary – CARENE – and of the Nazairian territory. Three cities in my constituency, Saint-Nazaire, Trignac and Montoir-de-Bretagne, show significant excess mortality in cancer and cardiovascular disease. Overmortality before age 65, i.e. premature overmortality, is 28 per cent higher than the national average. These figures are alarming and disturbing: the authorities must mobilize to understand their cause and origin. According to the studies, the excessive consumption of alcohol and tobacco partly explains this dramatic health situation. But other determinants of health are also identified, such as pollution related to the territory's industrial activities. What are the causal links with the local epidemiological situation? Are some of these factors cumulative or potentializing? To understand this, we need to deepen the finesse of scientific knowledge. That is why, on 11 September, I alerted the Prime Minister; on behalf of citizens, local associations and professionals, but also in the name of transparency, I call for further epidemiological studies to be cross-checked with existing data. To work on this situation as a matter of priority, which is not the case today, so I would like to alert you to this situation, the RHA needs to have more research resources. I know the Government's desire to make prevention a cornerstone of tomorrow's health system. You have my full support, but it is now necessary to speed up this process locally in my constituency. What means of consultation and coordination can be adopted locally? What specific budget can be deployed from 2020?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u124	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u125	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which reflects the concern, which I know, of the people in your constituency. At the request of the regional health agency of Pays-de-la-Loire, the regional health observatory and the cancer registry of Loire-Atlantique have recently produced two studies showing that the health status of the inhabitants of the Nazairian agglomeration is improving but, as you rightly say, remains much worse than the national average. A meeting was organised by the sub-prefecture of Saint-Nazaire on 10 September, with the active participation of the ARS, the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – and the Regional Directorate for Enterprise, Competition, Consumption, Labour and Employment – DIRECCTE – with the aim of sharing with the stakeholders – elected, associations, industry and health professionals – the conclusions of these studies. I understand you were present at this meeting. The causes of this state of health are, as you know, complex to identify. Multiple factors, of a genetic, behavioural, environmental or occupational nature, which combine and interact throughout life, may be involved. To address this in a comprehensive manner, a coordinated action plan will be deployed in the coming months in the area of health promotion, occupational risks and the environment. The ARS will propose a new local health contract extended to the entire Nazairian basin and new measures to prevent addictions, particularly tobacco and alcohol, will be launched throughout the agglomeration. Similarly, initiatives will be taken to improve the detection, detection, diagnosis and management of major diseases, particularly cancers. In addition to these actions, the RSA asked Public Health France to assess the relevance and feasibility of an epidemiological study that would quantify the proportion of pathologies attributable to air pollution. DREAL is continuing its studies to improve knowledge of ambient air quality in the vicinity of major sites in the sector. Industrialists producing the major air releases will be encouraged to put in place the best available techniques at European level. The identification of polluted sites and soils will be continued. At these sites, environmental investigations will be mandatory for any development project, in order to ensure that the project is compatible with the condition of the land. The climate-air-territorial energy plan, which is currently being approved, should also allow for progress in air quality control. As you point out, resolute and coordinated action is needed to improve the health of the inhabitants of the agglomeration of Saint-Nazaire. That's what we're trying to do. New exchange meetings for the coming months, in a broad format involving all relevant partners – institutions, elected representatives and citizens –, like the meeting held on 10 September, will be organised under the coordination of the sub-prefect of Saint-Nazaire, taking into account the evolution, by then, of the situation and the knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u126	Mrs Audrey Dufeu Schubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u127	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer, which brings some elements of which I was not aware. In an exceptional situation, we must indeed provide exceptional answers. There is a real urgency to deploy a concrete action plan on primary and secondary prevention. In my view, this must go far beyond the simple local health contract, the political portage of which often depends on the sanitary acculturation of the elected officials concerned. The scale of prefectural coordination, which I am pleased to learn will take place, is the only one able to respond to the urgency, which calls not only for the bringing together of actors who can have as their guardian the ARS or an environmental body, but also to involve in this approach – which was not the case at the meeting on 10 September – the national police and the gendarmerie, which also have a major role to play in the territories, particularly with regard to alcohol.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u128	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, to put his question, No. 799, concerning the hospital centre of Salon-de-Provence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u129	Located in a territory where more than 160,000 inhabitants live, the Salon-de-Provence hospital carries out over 110,000 consultations and 26,000 hospitalizations each year, and its emergency services take care of more than 42,000 patients: this is twice its capacity. With its dynamism, Salon-de-Provence's territory is experiencing a demographic surge that brings these figures up every year. The Hospital in Salon meets a real need, but it no longer meets the standards. Its services are saturation and its buildings have reached a critical age threshold – the oldest of them was built 115 years ago and the one that houses most of the hospitalizations is already over 40 years old. As you will understand, the working conditions of hospital staff are not the best. As a result, malaise is growing and it is up to me, as a parliamentarian, to echo it in this House. Located in the centre of the city and classified as a French building, the current site cannot be expanded and requires heavy renovations, the cost of which is higher than that of a new building. In order to sustain the provision of care in our territory, the construction of a new facility is a necessity. Such a project would even bring the Salon Hospital closer to the clinic which is also located there. This new hospital would be located on the outskirts of Salon-de-Provence: land is more available there, and the work would not cause any discomfort in the city centre. Moreover, this geographical location would make the hospital even more accessible. Today, and this is a strong point on this issue, the twenty elected representatives of the municipalities of the country have taken part in the purchase of land and the prefect created an inter-municipal union with a single vocation to allow this transaction. It is a strong symbol, but I am convinced that the state must go further. Mr. Secretary of State, the Government is committed to ensuring that no community hospital closes. I believe in this commitment and would like to know what are the state's plans for the programming and financing of this hospital so dear to our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u130	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u131	Mr President, first of all let me thank you for your question and, more broadly, for your investment, which I know is real, on this subject. I also know the questions that may exist in your territory. As you pointed out, the hospital in the country is the first provider of care, in its attractive area, in the medical and surgical sectors, in full hospitalization, as well as in obstetrics. Since 2017, he has engaged in partnership, reorganization and performance actions that now give him a certain positioning in terms of responding to the needs of community health. To date, medical cooperation with the inter-municipal hospital in Aix-en-Provence has focused on the activities of recourse in cardiology and pneumonology – with, as far as I know, a common head of service – as well as in surgery, urology and ENT, particularly for the sharing of periodicity. Other partnerships are being implemented, such as in orthopaedics, for the permanence of care, or in neurology. A reflection between practitioners is also carried out by the two institutions by means of a call for projects, in accordance with article 51 of the draft law on the financing of social security, for the specialty of bariatric visceral surgery. In view of the strategies for maintaining and developing ongoing activities, the hospital in the country of Salonais is indeed confronted, as you mentioned, with a real need to upgrade its old and saturated building, which presents many problems of non-compliance. This building is architecturally inadequate to meet the current needs for care, particularly in view of the development of outpatient care, and also presents numerous technical non-conformities that pose real problems of patient safety and quality of care. Heavy restructuring is necessary, but, as you said, the occupation on the ground of the current building limits the possibilities of reconfiguration or extension on the spot. A reflection was therefore carried out by the institution in order to promote an off-site reconstruction. This project, which would amount to EUR 110 million, represents, however, too much financial cost to the institution, given its financial capacity, which is now degraded, and a debt stock far too high to encourage the use of borrowing. In this spirit, the proposal that you mentioned, made by the local elected representatives, to provide a symbolic EUR 1 area, is an approach that we welcome and which we believe can serve as a basis for a possible project of complementarity between the different care actors in the territory. The regional health agency of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region is in fact particularly attentive to the maintenance of the proposal for care provided in the territory of the Republic of Monaco and remains vigilant with regard to the necessary common medical strategy, open to the city, which must be carried out by all public and private actors. Consideration is being given to the possible creation of a public-private partnership between the hospital and the Almaviva group, the owner of the Vignoli clinic, in order to be able to consider the appropriate real estate renovation options that might be required. With this in mind, the hospital in the country will receive one-off financial support, in order to carry out the technical security measures and to be able to carry out its activities for the benefit of the patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u132	Mrs Laurianne Rossi, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 806 concerning the arrangements for free employment in the Hauts-de-Seine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u133	My question is addressed to the Minister of Labour and concerns the implementation of the free jobs scheme in my department of Hauts-de-Seine, which you know well, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. With equivalent degrees, ages and career paths, it is more difficult to access employment for people living in certain disadvantaged neighbourhoods. It is in this sense that the free employment scheme experienced by the Government provides financial assistance to any private employer who recruits, in CDI or CDD for a minimum of six months, a job seeker residing in a priority area of city policy – QPV. Expanded in March 2019 to all the QPVs in Île-de-France, this scheme is a real chance to overcome the barriers to employment for all our fellow citizens from disadvantaged neighbourhoods. As a result of this reform, as many as 12,000 contracts have already been signed. The deployment of free jobs should find a special impetus in the department of Hauts-de-Seine, which houses the first European business district, at the Defense, and more than 270,000 companies, but also, it should be recalled, more than twenty priority neighbourhoods, three of which in my constituency, in the city of Bagneux, where the unemployment rate is around 16%. However, since its extension to all the priority areas of Île-de-France in April 2019, it appears that this scheme would benefit only about 160 inhabitants of Hauts-de-Seine, including a small number of job seekers from the commune of Bagneux. Better ownership of the scheme by local actors – companies, deconcentrated services and state operators, communities and associations – appears necessary. I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take to make the free employment arrangements better known to enterprises and local actors in the Hauts-de-Seine and to allow the return to employment of the inhabitants of these priority neighbourhoods, of which the Government and the parliamentary majority have made their priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u134	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u135	Madam Member, first of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Muriel Pénicaud, Minister of Labour. This absence, however, gives me the opportunity, and I am pleased to do so, to reply to you about your fight for employment in priority neighbourhoods, especially in a territory that is common to us, that of the Hauts-de-Seine. As you have pointed out, free jobs are an answer that we want to be strong and concrete about the difficulties of access to employment faced by many people in priority neighbourhoods – you mentioned Bagneux, but there are others in the Hauts-de-Seine. It is a real boost to hiring to combat discrimination against them. I would add that the scheme is proving its worth: experimentation takes place all over France, as we now reach 15,000 signed free jobs, 80% of which in CDI. You are asking me more specifically about the Hauts-de-Seine department, which has been integrated into the experiment since last April. The first results are rather encouraging, although we can probably do better, as I will have the opportunity to come back to answer your question. According to the figures available to me, companies in this territory have hired nearly 500 employees in free jobs – including, it is true, residents of other departments, since free jobs are also intended to promote mobility. Be sure that the mobilization of local actors is complete to promote this scheme to employers. A communication was made to consular chambers, employers' unions, business clubs, accounting experts and the National Association of Human Resources Directors to become ambassadors of this system. Job dating sessions are organised and the device is presented at all events aimed at economic actors or at employment forums, as in Nanterre on 19 November. For its part, Pôle Emploi also accompanies eligible jobseekers themselves, so that they can appropriate the scheme and make it an asset for their application. Other measures are planned by the end of the year, such as a communication to apprentice training centres, to inform apprentices of the possibility of being recruited in free employment following their contract. Finally, the generalisation of all neighbourhoods in the national territory from 1 January 2020 will allow us to communicate on a larger scale, to encourage more employers to recruit in open jobs. I hope that this communication will reach the ears of the employers of the Hauts-de-Seine and I also count on you and all the deputies of the department to make you ambassadors of this scheme to the employers of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u136	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u137	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this clarification. I see that many communication actions are under way and I am pleased to learn that others are planned. I would like to reassure you of the full and complete mobilization of Members on this issue. I repeat: we have made our priority of this return to employment, particularly in the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u138	Mrs Frédérique Meunier, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 807, on the abolition of the zero-rate loan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u139	"Everything comes to the point of waiting," said the adage. I could add today: "Everything comes to the point of who can defend the interests of our fellow citizens and our territories! » Less than a week ago, the deadline for a zero-rate loan – a PTZ – when you live in rural or peri-urban areas was set for December 31. On Friday, 15 November, however, the deputies adopted an amendment, against the opinion of the Government and the rapporteur-general, providing for the retention of the PTZ in zones B2 and C until the end of 2021. The French Federation of Buildings soon reacted to this first parliamentary victory, welcoming a strong message against the territorial divide. A few weeks ago, the Government seemed to want to reduce government support for purchasing. In concrete terms, families with modest incomes would lose between 6000 euros and 10000 euros of purchasing power, thus depriving forty-four rural departments, including Corrèze – which you know well, Minister – of national aid for the construction of new housing. In Corrèze, the figures speak for themselves: 1150 building permits in 2011, 450 in 2018. How many in 2020, in 2021? But perhaps this idea comes from a report from the General Inspectorate of Finance – the IGF – and from the General Council on Environment and Sustainable Development – the CGEDD –, two governmental bodies that felt that the PTZ was not sufficiently effective? Or does the Government wish to make an economy by no longer being obliged to compensate banks for the interest owed by certain households on a real estate loan? Strange conception of territorial cohesion and national solidarity! [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] Zero-rate lending is neither a fiscal niche nor a financial product. It is not based on any bounty effect. The aim of the young couple who are being built by using this system is to settle there, not to sell it with a short-term surplus value. Therefore, my question is simple: will you oppose this vote and maintain your position in favour of abolishing the PTZ in the event of a new reading of the Finance Bill for 2020 in the National Assembly, or will you give a favourable opinion on the amendment aimed at maintaining the PTZ throughout the country, and above all without conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u140	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u141	Mr Julien Denormandie, Minister for City and Housing, would like to apologize for his absence. He asked me to give you his answer. From the beginning of the quinquennium, during the 2018 Finance Law, the Government had announced its wish to refocus the PTZ in the nine on the tense areas, where the need for new housing is greatest, and the PTZ in the old one with work on the relaxed areas, where the need for renovation is greatest. In order to give visibility to professionals, the Government has maintained the PTZ for two years in the nine in the so-called B2 and C zones with a quota of 20% and, as you said, entrusted the IGF and the CGEDD with a joint mission to evaluate the scheme and thus give themselves the time to think about it. At the conclusion of its work, the mission recommended not to extend the PTZ in the nine in the relaxed areas, due in particular to its low trigger effect. On the other hand, it recommended that the renovation operations considered to be new fiscally – demolition-reconstruction, conversion of a building into housing, heavy rehabilitation – be extended to areas B2 and C, a recommendation that we have followed. It would be wrong to say that the Government was doing nothing for rural areas, since the PTZ in the nine was not the only aid for entry into rural areas. The PTZ in the old met a great success in the rural territories. The PSLA – social loan rental-accession – the agreed loans, the BRS – real solidarity lease – are all tools for modest households wishing to access the property. The finance bill for 2020 goes further by extending the PSLA to the old one with work and simplifying what is now called the Denormandie in the old one. In these territories, we have chosen to direct our efforts and our financial resources, no longer on the new, but on the renovation in order to fight against the vacancy with the plan "Action coeur de ville", the programme "Small cities of tomorrow" or the rural agenda. These efforts will lead to job creation while bringing people back into the centralities of medium and small cities. These are the reasons why the Government has not changed its position regarding the extension of the PTZ in the nine in the relaxed areas. However, we remain extremely determined to accompany these neglected territories for too long.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u142	Mrs Frédérique Meunier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u143	Thank you for that answer and ask you to forward it to Mr. Standardizes the following accuracy: PTZ is often used after having mobilised other loans and aids. Young people who wish to live in modern housing can thus benefit from traditional grants or loans, the PTZ being set up after two, three or four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u144	Mr Brahim Hammouche, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to his question No 817 on the France services network in Moselle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u145	I would like to draw your attention to the deployment of France services houses in Moselle, and in particular to the need to give priority to their establishment in municipalities which have been affected for years by ageing, impoverishment and even illiteracy among their inhabitants. They have, as everyone knows, increased needs in terms of accessibility to digital services and public service institutions. The municipal majority of the commune of Nilvange, which is located in the eighth constituency of Moselle, where I was elected, ran as a candidate to host a house France services. This medium-sized municipality of 4900 inhabitants belongs to the canton of Algrange. For years, it has been heavily affected by the ageing of its population – as of January 1, 2015, it had 1,158 people aged 65 to 106 – and a decline in the birth rate. From a geographical point of view, it is also a strategic point, 8 kilometres from Thionville, 20 kilometres from Luxembourg and 35 kilometres from Metz. If Nilvange were chosen as part of this redeployment of the France services network, the inhabitants of the neighbouring communes – who have been part of the Val de Fensch agglomeration community since 2000 – could also benefit from it. In addition, the municipality has suffered from the process of progressive deindustrialisation of the Fensch Valley over the past 20 years and remains attentive to the fate of its British Steel Hayange-Nilvange rail plant. It could, through the creation of a Maison France services in the municipality, regain a certain attractiveness. It is for these reasons that, in general terms and in terms of territorial strategy, it seems to me important to allow municipalities such as Nilvange to contribute to revitalizing the territory of North Mosella through these services to the population. As a Member of Parliament for the Moselle and Northern Lorrain, I would like the redeployment of the France Services network to take priority in favour of strategic communes, both geographically and sociologically and economically, as it relates to the future of our territories and the needs of their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u146	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u147	Thank you for your question, which demonstrates your commitment to projects emerging from your constituency. In the absence of Minister Jacqueline Gourault, who is asking you to excuse her, I will remind you of some important elements concerning the France services programme. In order to respond to the challenge of the presence of public services throughout the country, on 25 April the President of the Republic announced the deployment of a network of multi-purpose public services places – now called France services – allowing users to have access, less than 30 minutes from their home, to accompaniment by trained and versatile reception agents for their administrative tasks of daily life. France services thus marks a powerful return of public services to the heart of the territories, as well as a fundamental movement to transform the places of reception to the public. Through the services offered – which are not necessarily limited to the nine partners that are signatories to the Charter of Commitment, and can be associated with other offers, such as cultural or social ones – France services is in line with the objective of revitalising the city centres, which the Government has made a strong focus of its action in favour of the cohesion of the territories. The Prime Minister announced on 15 November the list of the first 460 structures in a position to obtain the France services label on 1 January 2020. Further labelling will take place in the water from the first half of 2020, allowing new structures to integrate the network as long as they meet the required quality standards. From now on, the prefects of department are invited to bring back to the team France services of the Office of the General Commissioner for the Equality of Territories the structures conforming to all the thirty mandatory criteria of the circular of 1 July 2019, and thus likely to obtain the labeling France services. Special consideration is given to the accessibility of public services in the territory, taking into account the geographical, sociological and economic dimension of the establishments, in accordance with the Departmental Plan for improving the accessibility of services to the public – the SPASP. It is in fact at the local level and in consultation with the departmental council and the associations of elected representatives that the sites of location of future France services structures must be discussed. With regard to the wish you have expressed, we are looking carefully at your situation. I would like to tell you that Minister Jacqueline Gourault has forwarded your request to the Prefect of La Moselle, who will evaluate the Nilvange project on the basis of the thirty criteria of the circular and the SPASD. In any case, you should be aware that, following your request, the attention given to this case will be more than benevolent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u148	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u149	Thank you for that answer. It makes it possible to resonate today the principle of equality, which is at the heart of our republican motto, and to make it rhyme with the requirement of proximity. I thank you for your kindness and for the attention you will give to my request concerning the town of Nilvange, and in particular its population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u150	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to raise his question, No. 813, concerning the application of the SRU Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u151	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the way in which the Solidarity and Urban Renewal Act, known as the SRU Act, is implemented. Although this law provides for levies from the tax resources of municipalities which do not respect the minimum rate of social housing, it allows the effect of such levies to be reduced or even abolished by taking into account the expenditure incurred by the municipalities in favour of social rental housing. However, some municipalities have committed themselves, for example by signing a social mix contract or by modifying their local planning plan – PLU – to increasing their number of housing units, especially social ones. Starting with the amendment of the LRP, it is often necessary to wait several years before the land becomes social housing, so that the city can comply with the law. In addition, municipalities are increasingly facing conflicting State injunctions: they need to build more to offer more social housing, while being constrained by flood, protected or agricultural areas. Gignac-la-Nerthe, a commune in my constituency, for example, has signed a social mix contract. Pending compliance with the legislation, it must, in order not to pay the SRU penalties, create appropriate public services, as these efforts are financed by its self-financing capacity. However, these adjustments cost the municipality as much as the SRU penalties. In either case, the self-financing capacity of this municipality will therefore be zero. Mr Minister, what changes are you planning to implement this law in order to provide better financial incentives to municipalities that are making significant efforts to promote social housing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u152	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u153	Mr Julien Denormandie, Minister for City and Housing, would like to apologize for his absence. He asked me to give you his answer. You draw the Government's attention to the difficulties in implementing article 55 of the so-called SRU Act, particularly in municipalities engaged in the production of social housing through the signing of a social mix contract. These municipalities, in your view, would be as penalized as those that have made no effort to promote social housing. What about it? First of all, I remind you that the social mix contracts define an operational framework of actions – identification of available land, revision of the PLU, among others – allowing the municipalities to engage in a voluntary process to fulfil their legal obligations. The achievement of the three-year catch-up objectives, promoted by the implementation of the actions of these contracts, makes it possible to avoid the application of sanctions, particularly financial ones. A differentiation is therefore made between the municipalities involved in a proactive approach to catching up with their backwardness and the most recalcitrant municipalities. Secondly, the existing scheme, which allows the deduction of the expenditure incurred by the municipalities in order to produce social housing from the SRU levy, is well balanced and incentived towards the municipalities. Thus, at national level, almost 130 million euros of expenditure were deducted from the 2019 gross levies, cancelling the levy for 30% of the 1062 municipalities subject to catch-up. The legislator has also ensured that the SRU levies made in the name of solidarity are not such as to upset the balance of local finances, thus capping them to 5% of the municipal operating expenditure for the communes in deficit, and to 7.5% for the communes in deficit. Lastly, in that it intended both to preserve protected or agricultural areas and to pursue the social mix objectives of the SRU Act, the Government's policy was in no way contradictory. Development of social supply does not necessarily mean new construction, space consumption and development of urbanised space. Indeed, in municipalities where land is scarce, catch-up objectives can be equally satisfied by the acquisition and improvement of existing or old housing as well as by the mobilization of the private park for social purposes, in particular through the agreement with the ANAH, the National Housing Agency. In conclusion, Mr. Diard, the Government does not intend to change the SRU system: it is balanced and the law on housing, planning and digital development, known as ELAN, has made the necessary adjustments to strengthen its effectiveness and credibility throughout the country. The Government reiterates its desire for the municipalities concerned to make a firm commitment to the implementation of the SRU Act by increasing their efforts to develop affordable housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u154	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u155	Thank you for that answer, Minister. I find the SRU law particularly unfair. The municipality of Sausset-les-Pins, of which I was mayor for 17 years, was literally strangled by this law, even facing threats of takeover of the PLU. However, it was building social housing, but not fast enough. I understand very well the objective of 25 % of social housing but, in order to avoid any injustice, it should be agreed from the date of entry into force of the law: to go back to the Antichrist, that is to say to the date of creation of the commune, makes it totally inapplicable for the smallest communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u156	Mr Stéphane Testé, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 798 on the accommodation of migrant workers in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u157	I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, about a matter which is of great importance to me and which is of great importance, particularly in my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis: the conditions for the accommodation of migrant workers. Migrant workers' homes offer accommodation conditions that are sometimes inappropriate, even unworthy, and similar to inadequate housing. They are confronted with an overoccupation which sometimes reaches considerable proportions: it is not uncommon, in fact, to count as many overoccupiers as residents in certain structures. This reflects the difficulties of the population concerned in accessing residential routes. The restructuring needs of migrant workers' homes are considerable and, for some of them, involve demolition-reconstruction operations. The aim is to move from large homes, often with 200 to 300 rooms, to smaller units. It is also a question of increasing the living space and, for some structures, of relocating some of the overoccupiers. I would like to point out that some homes, which have been waiting for an ever-deferred restructuring for years, still have unworthy reception conditions of the twenty-first century, with tiny rooms, even dormitories, overoccupation into the corridors, a degraded state and too often obsolete comfort. It is therefore becoming urgent to rehabilitate them. However, while progress has been made in recent months, we cannot be satisfied with the current pace of rehabilitation, which leaves these migrant workers in a very precarious situation. I would therefore like you to inform me of the measures the Government intends to take to provide the occupants of these structures with better reception conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u158	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u159	Let me once again, Mr Denormandie, apologise for the absence of my colleague Julien Denormandie, who has asked me to read out the answer he has prepared for you. Since its launch in 1997, the plan for the treatment of migrant workers' homes in social residence has provided residents with decent and independent housing, as well as adequate social support. This plan applies to 690 households, which accommodate about 130,000 immigrant workers. Since 1997, the total cost of processing operations has been EUR 2.4 billion. Of the 690 households identified at the beginning of the plan, 153 households of migrant workers in the most complex situations remain to be transformed. The Government is particularly attentive to the situation of the Seine-Saint-Denis, which, with its 55 homes, has historically come to the top of the French departments in view of the number of these structures and the 13759 beds they offer. These homes face the great difficulties that you have recalled. To date, 27 facilities totalling 6643 beds have opened 46 social homes, and 12 homes are in the process of being treated. The 15 remaining homes, which are included in the treatment plan, are largely in line with the priorities set by the Inter-ministerial Commission on Housing for Immigrant Populations, chaired by the Inter-ministerial Delegate for Housing and Access to Housing. The Government wishes to accelerate the rehabilitation of these sensitive homes. For this purpose, in connection with the prefectures, households whose treatment is urgent or problematic are targeted. As for financing, almost 116 million euros of grants have been allocated by the State since 1997 as part of the treatment plan in Seine-Saint-Denis, of which 7 million in 2018 alone. Since 2015, 31 million euros of loans from Action logement services have been allocated and, in 2019, the Regional and Interdepartmental Directorate of Housing and Housing of Île-de-France has made the treatment of homes in Seine-Saint-Denis one of its priorities, with a mobilizable envelope of nearly 10 million euros in the framework of the plan. The various processing phases will accelerate, but the scarcity of land available in this department is a difficulty. In fact, it is usually a matter of moving from a home with 400 to 500 beds to several residences with about 150 dwellings. The mobilization of all partners in land research is therefore necessary, starting with that of communities, which can use public tools. Three homes are also integrated into the new national urban renewal programme in Seine-Saint-Denis. Transforming homes, honourable Member, is also a response to two issues at the heart of our actions: on the one hand, taking into account ageing and the isolation of migrant workers; On the other hand, the preparation of the Olympic Games of 2024, for which the Seine-Saint-Denis is a leading actor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u160	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u161	Thank you, Minister, for those elements of the answer that are in the right direction. I welcome them all the more because, having recently visited two migrant homes in Seine-Saint-Denis, I was able to measure the urgency of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u162	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor to put his question, No 820, on the Ardennes Pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u163	Like all the Ardennes, I would like to thank you, Minister, for the signing, on 15 March in Charleville-Mézières, by yourself and Mrs Buzyn, of the Ardennes Pact, a set of devices designed to revitalize our department. Our departmental council carried out a great project a few years ago, with the construction of a green road along the Meuse River, an infrastructure essential for attractiveness and tourism in our department. The Ardennes pact has made it possible to mobilise funds to extend this infrastructure, from Pont-à-Bar sur la Meuse to Vouziers and the discovery park Argonne – whose wolves have considerable success – on the one hand, and to Rethel and the Marne on the other. However, a disaster occurred on June 12, 2018: the Neuville-Day Lock collapsed. The navigation was stopped, and the river stops were deserted. The Ardennes elected representatives, tourism professionals, associations, especially fishermen, but also the Meusiens and the Marnais are very concerned because they all want the boats back to navigation on this canal. So I have a number of very concrete questions to ask you. First, are the funding open for the reconstruction of the Neuville-Day Lock, in order to allow recreational boats to pass? When can the canal be reopened to navigation and, alternatively, the lowering of water levels observed this summer, as well as the development of algae, will not be a handicap? Finally, in the future, will the State, the French waterways – VNF –, the regional council and the other Ardennes communities be able to organize themselves to work together, so that the canal can be used after the return to navigation and be subject to the necessary maintenance work?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u164	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u165	Since the aspect of the Ardennes pact that you mentioned, Mr Warsmann, corresponds to the scope of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I would like to apologize for the absence of Mrs Borne and Mr Djebari, who, in charge of transport, exercises oversight over VNF. Both asked me to read you the answer prepared for you. The network managed by Voies navigable de France has suffered decades of underinvestment and, for this reason, has many weaknesses, as evidenced by the damage to the Neuville-Day lock. As a reminder, the regeneration of the river network is a strong axis of the mobility policy, with the Government planning to increase the financing of the French transport infrastructure financing agency by 40 per cent. We must indeed point a stop to the deterioration of this phenomenon and strengthen the reliability of the large-scale network useful for freight. Nevertheless, small-scale channels will not be abandoned. For example, with regard to the Ardennes Canal, VNF has already started the first phases of the rehabilitation of the Neuville-Day Lock, and has committed to complete this work by the end of 2020, with a view to reopening for the 2021 tourist season. While the low water levels observed this summer did not cause damage to the canal, they recall that restrictions on use may be imposed during periods of drought. Finally, with regard to the development of invasive species in the canal, VNF will of course take the necessary steps to ensure that aquatic plants do not oppose navigation. Nevertheless, the future of these small-scale channels must be the subject of a longer-term strategy, beyond simply curative treatment. This strategy is intended to better respond to local issues related to tourism development, heritage integration and hydraulic management. This is the approach taken by the French navigable waterways on the Ardennes Canal and on a number of other parts of the region, in connection with the Grand East Regional Council, of which you are an elected member, and the other elected members of the territory. The Government hopes that this approach will lead to partnerships by territory, and that it will be part of the development of the future VNF target and performance contract in terms of time and methodology. Meetings will need to be held quickly in the Greater East region, in the presence of the State. You will, of course, be kept informed, honourable Member, of the progress of the matter. As a more personal person, I also want to thank you for your involvement in the success of the Ardennes Pact, which owes you so much. Without your political impulse and your ability to unite all the actors in the department, Mrs Buzyn and I probably couldn't have signed it a few months ago. I wish – and will therefore be your relay to the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, which I know well for having been a Secretary of State – that the lock we are talking about and the canal of the Ardennes as a whole be priorities. Indeed, it is also the purpose of the Pact to make this important territorial catch-up. We will therefore be vigilant, and the Government is at your disposal, Mr. Deputy, as always and as it should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u166	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u167	Thank you, Minister, for your availability, the quality of your response and your commitment to my territory. You have made a number of clear answers, first on the appropriations needed for the rehabilitation of the infrastructure, then on the restoration of navigation from 2021, and finally on the work that I have to do as a Member of Parliament and regional councillor. We will all work together to find a lasting solution, which gives meaning to the return to navigation, and to make the infrastructure an artery of development and attractiveness for the Ardennes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u168	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-26-O1084.u169	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn vote on the draft law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action; Further to the review of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020 in new reading. The meeting is adjourned.
