ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, on further reading, of the bill, as amended by the Senate, on business growth and transformation (No.1673, 1761).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u2	This morning, the Assembly continued its consideration of the articles, concluding with Rule 8 bis B.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u3	The special committee having tabled, after the expiry of the deadline, an amendment to Rule 8a B, an additional ten minutes shall be allocated to each group and five minutes for non-attached Members, for the discussion of the Rule, pursuant to Rule 55(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u4	This article is important: it has a history and I hope it will have a happy future, for the country and for the planet. During the review of the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet – EGALIM law – we discussed at length issues related to pesticide regulations. Glyphosate has taken a significant place in the discussions, based on the negotiation of international treaties such as the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement: CETA – or like the Common Market of the South – Mercado Común del Sur : MERCOSUR... The principle of reciprocity then became an important principle during the discussion: the products we refused to import, we had to ban ourselves from exporting them. For example, we have been alerted by NGOs to the very sensitive issue of the production of plant protection products which are not authorised at European level but which we produce and export to third countries. After many reflections, after a first reservation from the Government, expressed at first reading by the then Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Travert, the majority adopted an amendment defended by Matthieu Orphelin, which reduced the scope of our idea by extending the ban period in order to allow for a transitional stage: France undertook, by 2025, to stop the production and export of prohibited products on its own soil according to European directives and regulations. And then, a surprise. Honourable senators, sensitive to the short-term economic stakes of these productions, issues which, I would like to affirm with seriousness, are also ours – no one is indifferent to the future of the industry, to jobs... – senators, I said, under what pressure, with or without the complicity of the Government – I would not allow myself to comment on this sensitive subject – in any case with his consent, have annulled this provision of the EGALIM Act in this text. I will make a first comment, in form, which I will not dwell on because I abhor political polemics: the Government has agreed that a measure should be included in a text to delete it in the context of the subsequent consideration of another text. We have the right to change our mind, to mature, yet we must do so in full transparency. We therefore inherit, on rereading, the CAPTE bill amputated the provision in question and under conditions that remain unclear. Beyond the principle of reciprocity, it is an ethical question, and while some consider that this is not important, I believe that it is the heart of political life: the search for a certain truth, the search for what is right and not just the pursuit of our short-term interests. My principle is quite simple and is based on what seems to me a golden rule of our civilization: we don't have to do to others what we refuse to do to ourselves. The rules that we impose on ourselves must be able to apply by extension. It is the very principle of the universality of French law, it is the spirit of the Revolution, the spirit of the Enlightenment. The French claim to think universally of law; We do not manufacture law in the national interest alone, but its aim is universal, that is what our political tradition is. The latter must be integrated into modernity, into the new fields of globalization, often judged as without faith or law. Well, the principles of reciprocity, in international trade, in the rules of health and environmental bans, should guide us in the years to come. We therefore reiterate our proposal to reinstate the provision of the EGALIM law and to stop the production and export of plant protection products containing active substances banned within the European Union by 2025. Because of the lack of factual arguments, you have not convinced us, Madam Secretary of State. Eight days ago, I sent you a long letter asking you to bring certain information to the attention of the House. I gave you the credit to offer us well-founded arguments which we had to take into account: not to confuse seeds and pesticides, not to confuse countries with a health authority and freely choosing to use certain molecules and countries which are not states of law and which do not have a health agency, to take the time of transition etc. We have heard all your arguments, but I also asked you, in my letter, what would be the socio-economic impact of your decision, and its ecological impact. And while I welcome the quality of our dialogue and do not doubt for a second your sincerity, the concern for the truth obliges me to say that we have had only half the information requested. You have given us the list of the first five French operators, the number of jobs involved – some of the pressure groups mentioned 3000 jobs when we are usually talking, if the seed sector is excluded, and we were in agreement on this point, of a thousand jobs, which is already a lot, I say very seriously, and we will be very concerned about these thousand jobs – and you have informed us about the level of subsidies that these companies have received. Between the funds of the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – and the special funds of the development funds on biocontrol, these companies have collected almost EUR 16 million since 2008. Above all, all companies in the sector received 55 million dollars a year from the research tax credit – CIR. But you'll tell us these numbers when the time comes. In short, we refer to industries accompanied by public authorities, which benefit from the common law of the CIR, but also to specific mechanisms for initiating the agro-ecological transition. You have not informed us about the level of profit of these companies, but the latest published figures concerning the giants of agrochemistry – I do not like to mention companies in the Chamber and I will stick to this rule – must reassure us about their economic health: they are doing very well. There is therefore no concern about public aid and their own capacity to reform and commit themselves. Based on this information, although incomplete, we have engaged in a dialogue to seek solutions; Although somewhat fragmented, he has always been sincere and kind. We have proposed that our amendment should serve as the basis for a reasonable solution. We were ready for compromises, but today we do not have half of the information requested, particularly the information on the impact of the nature of the products, hence the reasons for their ban. Nor have we been aware of a proposal for an amendment from the rapporteur-general of the Special Committee, if not on the margins of the examination at the sitting – he will present it at the appropriate time. I hope that at this stage of the debate, and even before we start discussing the amendments, we will clarify our respective trajectories a little. Obviously, and according to our information, you are about to derogate from the ban on the products in question as long as companies engage in processes of change in their activities. You brought them together at Bercy and used a lot of energy in this action; However, knowing a little about the subject for having presided over the "Ecophyto" plan during the last legislature, I can assure you that their commitments correspond exactly to the path of growth of biocontrol as defended by the Ministry of Agriculture and the union of biocontrol: biocontrol products now account for 5% of the plant protection market and it is expected that this rate will reach 15% in 2025 and 25% in 2030. These commitments are therefore nothing new, since it is simply a matter of following the natural trajectory of scientific research and demand both locally and internationally in terms of biocontrol. Against this promise of progress, which is nothing new, I repeat, and adheres to the natural trajectory of the conversion of these industries, you renounce ad vitam æternam to the ban. The account is therefore really not there. It's worse than not doing, it's pretending. If there is no prohibition, there will be no transfer path for these companies. And deeply immoral practices of exporting products that can harm human health and global health, including in countries with weak health legislation, in undemocratic countries, are not worthy of our economy. I conclude by stressing, once again, that I have the same concern for employment, the economy and that it is not a gift to our industry to base its activity on such disloyal ethical principles. I will simply recall that the agroecology trajectories, as a whole, in the agrosupplies production chain, in research and development – R&amp;D, are more virtuous than those of the agrochemical sector: all the studies of the National Institute for Agronomic Research – INRA – support it as desired.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u6	On the identical amendments Nos 19 and 1227, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u7	Again, and these episodes will be repeated more and more often, we are facing this shock between environmental and economic issues. Here, with plant protection products, they involve biodiversity and health when it is not the climate. Once again, we are confronted with this dilemma between, on the one hand, the protection of the environment and health, and, on the other, the preservation of employment. But it is clear that, month after month, year after year, the balance of power is changing and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain jobs that correspond to activities that have a strong impact on the environment. Why? Because the progress of science brings ever more certainty and the sensitivity of opinion is increasing, the current evolution resulting from the combination of the two phenomena. We cling because it is true that these jobs are put at risk by this development, but aren't we sometimes a little guilty? In fact, we hold, we hold and, at some point, there is a drop of water that overflows the vase, a scandal, a study that turns things around and, from day to day, the cutoff falls on those jobs that we have endeavoured to keep to the end, until, therefore, the companies carry out the conversions that we have expected from them for a long time. For they have known for a long time that they have to convert, that they know that diesel, asbestos are harmful to health. We often say we don't believe what we know and we think it's going to pass. But one day, because we have not been precautionous enough, the cutter falls, I repeat, and jobs are being eliminated. We risk by this attitude of obtaining victories for a month, six months, two years... and finally, in my opinion, by not controlling anything, carried away that we will be by the wave. Many economic actors are aware of this and say that things are going to change, saying that they themselves have to take the bull by the horns. However, we can accompany them to undertake the necessary changes, so that they can find alternative solutions, new products. That is why it is important to include these trajectories in the law. We need to set deadlines, we need to know that at some point it will be over and it may be over sooner than we want. I will end with one very important point: companies, vis-à-vis their employees, vis-à-vis the people, vis-à-vis their shareholders, with their supervisory board, must make all the transparency on the risks facing them, namely financial risks, risks to their reputation and liability risks. For example, recently, the company ExxonMobil was convicted by the U.S. Department of Justice for failing to inform its shareholders of the risk posed by the possible ban on oil exploitations – or at least the obstacles that might hinder their business – to the course of the actions. It is clear that environmental issues are now likely to endanger companies – until they survive – their employees. Our responsibility is therefore to require them to make the risks they face transparent. We, together with Mr.Potier, fought many battles under the previous legislature. We share a lot of ideas, about tax evasion, the environment... and we can't say we've always won!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u8	Well, here we lose systematically, we step back, we sink.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u9	We have even suffered many failures and the previous majority have come to grips with these same issues, and we have sometimes found ourselves in a minority position because the responsibility of a government is sometimes complicated to assume. It's good to recognize him. All of this to say that things are much more complex and you may appreciate them differently depending on whether you are in the majority or in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u10	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u11	Our colleague Raphaël Schellenberger, who cannot be with us this afternoon, led the fight and drew the attention of the Republican Group to this issue. We wish to retain Article 8 bis B, as adopted by the Senate at first reading. We must avoid overtransposition – it is a genuine French disease – such as that enshrined in the EGALIM law last October. Since the adoption of the latter text, the majority seemed to have become aware of its errors, which explained that the provision introduced in the Senate had been retained by the special commission. But now she's getting us out of her hat some kind of ill-fated device, probably from internal compromises. It feels like the environmental wing is starting to punch on the table, and the left wing is ringing. Within a majority that is inconsistent, there is no doubt that compromises must be constantly sought. Yet these are not always the right solution. If Article 8 bis B were deleted or replaced by another provision, I would remind you that this would involve 2000 jobs in our country. Of course, I hear comments on environmental protection and health conservation, but, frankly, these arguments are not serious. If these products are no longer manufactured in France and there are no rules at European or world level, what will happen? Others will take over elsewhere. From an economic point of view, this is not a good calculation. You want to protect the planet, but preventing the manufacture of certain plant protection products in France will allow these products not to be manufactured and used elsewhere? The answer is no. In other words, we buy ourselves good conduct in good faith,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u12	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u13	... or rather a bad account, because, economically, this is done on the backs of French employees. You have to say things the way they are. As far as health protection is concerned, it is well known that in France, the companies that manufacture these products work under drastic conditions of hygiene and safety. If you prevent the manufacture of these products in France, who will manufacture them, where will this production be located, and under what conditions? Are these products not likely to be even more harmful than those in circulation today? I've had enough of the tartufferies! It is not because high school students are marching today, quite rightly, to draw our attention to the protection of the planet that we must take this kind of action and buy ourselves a conscience in good standing. So start by acting on a European scale! On all these issues, you find yourself in a situation of failure within Europe, so that France is forced to take unilateral measures – that is true for the taxation of GAFAs and other matters – which penalizes our country without solving the problems that persist at European or global level. France holds the presidency of the G7: intervene on these scales, and finally show your ability to convince our European partners! Despite his great speeches and fora, today Mr Macron is completely isolated on the European stage. Mr Lescure, I see what I am saying that you do not like, but I maintain that you are failing on all these issues, starting with the taxation of GAFAs. Mr. The Mayor, who is not here, has made great statements explaining that we are going to bring and convince all Europeans, and that Mr Macron was the leader of the Union, but today you are in a situation of failure on all these issues. We want the Senate to continue to be written, because it is common sense, and above all it is very pragmatistic, a quality which is unfortunately too often lacking in this majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u14	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u15	The strength of our legislative power is precisely to enrich the law and to make it mature in both houses, in the Assembly and in the Senate, so that it can reach its point of balance. This process allows the views expressed in the various debates to converge. This living democracy is reflected in the path of measures relating to plant protection products, because when this issue was studied from an economic point of view, as we were invited to do by the PACTE bill, new issues emerged that we had to take into account. We are all aware of the urgency of abolishing this type of product from agricultural use at world level, and not just at European level. It appears that the ban on production would call into question an entire part of the activity of several French plant protection product manufacturing sites as well as that of seed producers who use these products for export. Nearly 2700 direct jobs would thus be threatened in France, and relocations of production sites seem inevitable. [[Mr. Roland Lescure applauds]] Faced with this equation of ecological, social and economic realities, the Republic on the move group does not compromise on the imperative of creating the conditions for the transition to the use of healthier products. Similarly, we must allow the main players to adapt. Is that not the very meaning of the words "ecological transition"? Thus, putting these companies at risk in terms of activity would reduce their ability to innovate in competitive substitutes. This would therefore have effects contrary to the ecological transition that we wish to see. More importantly, this could lead to a transfer of French production lines to foreign countries. Everyone is aware of the interdependence at the global level, and it is not the withdrawal of French production, i.e. 4% of world production, which alone would put an end to the problem of the use of these harmful products. The ban on bans is not up to the stakes and the context. That is why the Republic on the March Group has worked on a compromise solution. The alternative amendment presented to us by our rapporteur-general strongly commits our country to the eradication of these products, while also accompanying companies to take part in the ecological transition, under the control of Parliament. The amendment that we will support encourages companies to engage strongly in the search for alternative solutions. The undertakings concerned may not be subject to the prohibition if they choose an ecological transition contract with the State. In particular, these transition contracts will have to contain commitments for alternative production, R&amp;D solutions. After four years, in the event of non-compliance, the derogation will be suspended, and production will be prohibited. The time of transition is not a waste of time for the planet, nor for our economy. This is a time that will allow our companies to design a new model for a healthy agriculture that we all want. It is a time that will allow political and legal action to deploy at European and global level to propel the necessary synergy of collective action, the only one that can address these global challenges. As activists of the ecological cause that we are, we refuse any danger to our fellow citizens and to the planet. This is reflected in our responsibility as legislator: we must find a necessary and viable compromise without opposing ecology to the economy, a compromise that makes both work in tandem. This balance, we affirm, no previous majority has found it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u16	It's a little easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...or had the audacity to propose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u18	You have no political memory! And the law on the energy transition, and the law on the recovery of biodiversity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u19	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u20	With Article 8 bis B, the question arises as to whether we agree to produce products in France whose consumption is prohibited in our country. Why is it banned in France? Probably because we considered these products to have an adverse impact on our health and our environment, in plain terms, that their use was contrary to the general interest. We can therefore consider that what is bad for us is also bad for others. On this point, I think everyone can agree. Secondly, we must take into account the fact that we are integrated into a European economy, in a globalised economy, characterized by the flow of services and goods. In these circumstances, it is up to France to convince its partners to adopt its positions. However, today, France is rather isolated, as we have seen with regard to the tax on digital giants. In this regard, the Government proclaimed its ambitions to convince its partners a few months ago, but that was in no way the case, and we were forced to act in isolation. Today, we must also take into account our trade balance, whose results are very poor. The figures are deteriorating sharply, and the deficit has become extremely heavy. Behind this data is the situation of our jobs and employees. We are defending them in our debate. Finally, if France stopped manufacturing plant protection products, nothing would change. Other countries would take over, which would affect our economy. Allow me to point out that there is an inconsistency by drawing closer to valid trade agreements such as CETA or the agreement with MERCOSUR. These agreements will enable products manufactured under conditions which are not allowed in France to be introduced into France. I am thinking in particular of the use of plant health products in Canada. We should insurrection against this situation and not admit that products from which we refuse production in France can enter our territory. We should come together to be stronger, all together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u21	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u22	I want to respond to the comments of our colleague from the majority, Mrs Nadia Hai. I want you to spend your time teaching the whole world...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u23	It wasn't that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u24	Yes, I do! You explained to us that the previous majorities had never done anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u25	And it's a reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u26	You continue to play the game of condescending to justify the positions of a majority drawn between its sensitivities – there are ecologists, those on the left, as the press illustrates well today, and all the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u27	It's demagogic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u28	However, it remains true that all these cases still face a principle of reality,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u29	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u30	...that of the French economy. I am a staunch advocate of ecology whenever progress can be made in this area, taking into account the situation in our country. I draw an example from the discussions of the EGALIM law, which has given rise to many debates, and to many criticisms on social networks. I'm thinking about the glyphosate problem. When we debated it in this House, you had committed yourself, with your hand on your heart, to banning the use of glyphosate within three years. We asked you to take into account the different situations, culture by culture, and to work with all organizations, be they scientific, agricultural or other. That is what we are currently doing in the mission to monitor the release of the glyphosate, chaired by my colleague Julien Dive. His two rapporteurs came from the majority, including Mr.Jean-Baptiste Moreau, who was reporting the bill. We mean the ministers, the scientific organisations, the agricultural trade unions, and all the people involved. We have the feeling that we are moving forward. After you have committed yourself over a period of three years, it turns out that the President of the Republic discovered that, for certain types of cultures, which we had mentioned in the course of the debates, this promise was untenable – I am thinking, for example, of stairways. I remember Mr Richard Ferrand, the current President of our House, explaining in the House that if we found out in the following weeks that France could not give up glyphosate within three years, the majority would take their responsibilities and table a bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u31	In a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Take the transcripts, you will see that it is exactly what he said. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to a little less condescending towards us so that we can all listen to each other, take into account each other's positions and arrive at reasonable solutions for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u33	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u34	Madam Secretary of State, in keeping with what Véronique Louwagie and Gilles Lurton have just said, I ask you to come back to common sense. Of course we all agree on the need to protect the environment and make efforts to do so, but we are not isolated in our hexagon, our country is part of the world. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if we look back at the provision of the Senate, it will significantly weaken an industrial sector that, I would remind you, provides 40% of the products that can be used in organic farming and more than 50% of the biocontrol products, and of which 10% of the world's turnover is devoted to research and development. By removing the possibility of exporting certain products made in France, you would seriously weaken this industry. And I recall that when our external trade is in a dramatic situation: special rapporteur on the external trade budget, I am well placed to know that we are at 63 billion in trade deficit and that this is continuing to increase. We can't go on like this. And yet this will be the case if, each time, we give lessons to the rest of the world, we cut off a finger, and soon the whole arm. Finally, I would like to point out that the deletion of this article would mean that these plant protection products will continue to be manufactured in other countries without the same conditions of safety and control. That would be even worse for those who use them in these countries. I call on the majority to show some common sense: I agree with the objective, but let us proceed in stages and not rob our industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u36	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u37	I believe that Mr Potier's proposal has a good feeling: to repeal the ban on the manufacture on French territory of plant protection products intended to be marketed exclusively outside the European Union is obviously an objective that should be achieved quickly. That being said, there is one but... It is not enough in France to ban the import of products marketed in the European Union, from plant protection substances banned in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u38	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u39	We import them, without even informing consumers, and they compete with our own products. I take an example that everyone knows: that of Spanish wines. They compete directly with our wines, are produced with plant protection products banned in France because their producers benefit from derogations, and we still import them. They compete with the production of our wine growers who do not have the right to use them. Let us start by solving the problem within the European Union before we tackle what is happening outside because if we are not already able to do so at our doorstep, there is no need to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u40	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u41	The Meadows report dates back to 1972... This must make us modest because we are much to be late for his alerts. To consider, because you are sensitive to the world, that the world is with you, is a little short. Barbara Pompili, by virtue of her ministerial experience in a previous government, is a good witness to what has been accomplished, I am thinking of the neonicotinoids, for which our majority had imposed a timetable that we had held. I believe that many of the arguments I have heard here are not tenable. To say that if we were to ban it at home, it would in any case be done elsewhere, would have meant at another time to renounce the abolition of slavery, a measure that was still inconvenient, since it would continue in any case elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u42	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u43	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u44	According to the same logic, social rights could be considered inconvenient because there are at least so-called social rights elsewhere. But under certain circumstances, when France is at the forefront, it honours itself and pulls behind it the whole world. Thus, our country has been at the forefront of the Paris climate agreements. Basically, both give the feeling that we are thinking and looking at the future with old glasses. First of all, I would like to remind you that we are discussing a text that we debated five months ago, and that some of us who are today the heralds of the rewriting of an article adopted five months ago then voted for it themselves! It's still, let's admit, a curiosity. I would also point out that during the discussion of the EGALIM bill, the Socialist Members proposed, for the sake of consistency, the application of the principle of reciprocity by introducing an amendment to prohibit the importation of food products treated with certain substances introduced into our country. We propose here to remain no more or less to what the national representation voted five months ago! It is in line with the amendment by Guillaume Garot and Dominique Potier that I referred to – I note in passing that the majority did not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u45	It was contrary to European treaties!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u46	[[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] Our country is facing the issue of the ecological transition, and this is the case with the production of plant protection products as well as after diesel, as the figure of 15,000 jobs threatened in this regard has been mentioned in a recent topical issue. Is it necessary to maintain diesel? No, but that means that the state must commit itself far more than it does today, must have an industrial policy other than that of today which seems very timid and very modest, and certainly not commensurate with the challenges of the ecological transition. It is necessary to maintain the article as it was voted five months ago and that the state gives itself the means to accompany the companies concerned so that they return from the burden and co-finance break-up innovations – since you will create a fund for break-up innovations, find it useful now. The wisdom would be to stick to what our assembly voted five months ago and that was not even the subject of an assessment start. As for the jobs at risk, we must of course fight to maintain them by financing this transition. You have had less modesty in eliminating hundreds of thousands of assisted jobs, on the pretext that they were false jobs, you have made them real unemployed. Remember that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u47	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u48	The subject is important and the authors of the amendments to this article are part of a path that we all share. But if France wants to share with the rest of the world its concept of sustainable development, which is based on the often mentioned tripod – economic, environmental and social – goes for plant protection products! The example of the glyphosate cited by Gilles Luton is spoken. Are we prepared to do the same for other environmental issues? Is France ready to produce and market products consisting of rare metals and pollutants? Is France ready to stop producing and marketing textiles made in countries where social conditions are highly questionable, I am thinking of child labour? These amendments are in a good state of mind, but not very reasonable. We must also take into account the question of reciprocity in terms of both production methods and dissemination, and also the European dimension, because we are in the pre-election campaign. It is a real subject of debate to know how France will spread its questions and virtuous practices concerning sustainable development in Europe and in the rest of the world. We will go back to the articles on consumption because we also need to know what our vision of the act of purchase is. But it is for these reasons, I repeat, that if these amendments go in the right direction, they cannot be accepted as they are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u50	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 19 and 1227, to delete Article 8a B. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u51	I believe that the President of the Republic is still in Kenya, at the one planet summit, and I salute his culture of the field of words, his practice of great accounts, because it is important to carry a planetary and civilizational narrative on transitions. I'm happy to have a president who carries these international fights high and strong... But they'll have more weight if they're credible. Before defending the amendment, I would like to respond to some of the objections that have been raised. I did not take Eric Alauzet's statement, with whom I have had a confident and friendly conversation for a long time, as a provocation: in view of the reaction of the majority, does he think that the few humanist advances made during the previous legislature would still be possible today? That's a real question. On the other hand, I would say to Mrs Hay, who has just strongly defended the shift of the majority, that if she advocates that 4% of phytos weigh little in the world, the same reasoning could be taken for France, which accounts for only 1% of greenhouse gas emissions, and thus abandon any energy transition policy. On the contrary, there are four times as many reasons to engage in the plant transition around the world because of the responsibility of his words. And then I address Mrs Louwagie – and her colleagues The Republicans in the Senate who abrogated the article with the support of the Government –: the issue of employment has been very well analysed by Mr.Alauzet. I say to you, my dear colleague, that you do no service to these thousand employees. I am thinking of a box that is not far from it, in the Far East, and which, in three years' time, will have converted its entire site into biocontrol: this shows that the deadlines proposed by our withdrawal amendments are perfectly compatible with the transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u53	Those who did not initiate this phase are in danger. Eric Alauzet said it very well: will it take a scandal or even a tragedy, at the end of the world or at the end of the street, for the decision to ban to fall brutally and the industries concerned to be threatened? That is why the transition must begin now. Finally, I would like to point out that the logic of not doing anything because there is no UN treaty would have historically led our country to tragic scenarios, to those who fear the peoples, to those who cause them to turn to the extremes, out of despair of the public power. Your speech, ladies and gentlemen, is deeply desperate for public power. I believe, on the contrary, that when a country is exemplary and sincerely embarks on the transition, it brings public opinion, non-governmental organisations and trade unions into a battle of ideas which, on its own, can prosper on a European scale and achieve our future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u54	But in stages, with common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u55	Faced with the public impotence reflected in this article, we propose another trajectory. We have learned during this debate that some French industrialists are exporting phytopharmaceutical products to countries where they are banned. This practice is in total violation of the law, and made possible by the difficulty of assessing its health and environmental consequences and the lack of awareness of the list of products in question. These are economic crimes that must be denounced here. And I would like the Secretary of State to make a commitment that justice will do its job in this area. We would like France to plead for the publication of a list of countries where we can consider that health authorities benefit from a real rule of law, that is, with a real parliament, which makes it possible in conscience to accept the molecules they import in their own country. We would like France to advocate for a European transition. We would like France to commit a strengthening of the research tax credit for the mutation of the industries concerned, including by accompanying the alliance between start-ups and majors in the framework of mutualised research tax credits. We would like France to become a leader in agroecology. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] But all of this can only be achieved if we have the courage to establish, in the long run, a ban on these plant products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u56	Mrs Pompili has the floor to support Amendment No. 1227.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u57	At the same time, I will defend Amendment No 1224, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u58	Please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u59	First of all, I stress that we must all be very clear: we cannot agree to do to others what we do not apply to ourselves. This is the first basis for reflection. Second basis for reflection: out of pity, let us stop opposing economy and ecology!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u61	All studies show that the ecological transition creates more jobs than it destroys. We therefore collectively have an interest in our economy, our industry, the future of our territories, to commit ourselves in strength and with all our will to the ecological transition. Engaging in the ecological transition means being offensive and not defensive. This means that every time we seek to advance ecology, we must not be afraid because jobs will have to be destroyed. It is not necessary, because precisely because we have anticipated, some territories will be prepared to face these challenges. We will create hope, new channels and training that will enable us to meet the beautiful challenge ahead: to preserve the future of our children, quite simply. That was the first thing I wanted to say. One point, at this stage in our debates, is a problem for me: we will really have to ask ourselves questions about the functioning of our Parliament, because the fact that we are voting on something that is then called into question five months later in another law is a problem. So we will have to think about it collectively, because we cannot constantly undo what we have done: I find that in terms of the credibility of our Assembly's work, it is a matter of reflection. Turning to the issue of products banned in Europe and which we produce to export to third countries, I have proposed two amendments. The first, bearing No. 1227, is simple: it aims to delete this article in order to return to what had been voted in the EGALIM law in order to respect the principles that I set out to you earlier. I had the opportunity to discuss with the Secretary of State, and I thank her for these exchange times during which we were able to try to identify the problems, the ins and outs. It did alert me on this occasion to a number of jobs that were at risk, a situation which may require a little more time. I have heard this argument: it seems to me that even if there is an urgent need to act today, we can also try to be realistic and give ourselves some time. I was also told: you know, the companies that are in front of us are a little cynical, and on the day that this production will be banned, they will move to relocate their production lines to Germany. First of all, this little blackmail on the job is beginning to be a bit tiring: we must be careful not to give in to it every time, for the reasons I explained to you earlier. Indeed, if we are to fight only in France, it is true that I think we are missing one step: it is therefore obviously necessary for the fight we are fighting in France to be conducted in parallel at European level, and even at international level. This is what President Macron is doing: he was participating in the One planet summit yesterday. Today, France is making commitments in Nairobi precisely on chemicals, in order to avoid their spread around the world. We are therefore making international commitments. In my second amendment, No 1224, I propose that we take a little more time, that is to say, to postpone the ban to 2025. I also propose that we commit ourselves, on the occasion of the campaign for the European elections, to ensure that in 2025, when the French ban comes into play, it is coupled with a European ban. Such a scenario would cut a little bit off the grass under the foot of these cynical companies that blackmail us. I would also like to say that this will to anticipate must be taken very seriously, because unfortunately history has shown us that scandals are happening quickly. The asbestos scandal has caused very serious damage. One day to the next, companies closed down. Let us not forget, and I know that our overseas colleagues are very sensitive, the Chlordecone scandal. We cannot continue to act as if it did not exist. Why did I use this last expression? Because we have data that have been provided to us by the Government on jobs that are at risk: if we can discuss the figures, we have these data. Do we have precise data on the health and environmental consequences of our production and exports? No, we don't have them, because it's hard to get them. We also don't have one because, somewhere, if we don't know, it doesn't exist. How many people in the world, however, are experiencing serious health problems because of the products we sell to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u62	What's going to change if we don't produce them in France anymore? Nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u63	How many hectares of forests and farmland are now polluted by the products we sold to their occupants? How many farmers around the world are threatened because the products we supply them, if they relieve them today, will lead them in ten years' time to be unable to grow their land? We do not have such information. And if we do not have it, all these phenomena do not exist, and we can continue, in good conscience, to produce and export these products... Therefore, for all these reasons, we cannot be content with words. We cannot be content with incantations. Therefore, Amendment No 1224 is an amendment of action, which would allow France to remain the leader in ecological transition that Emmanuel Macron embodies very strongly at the international level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u64	You're convinced by Macron, that's it already.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u65	We must show that we are capable of doing so at the national level. We are also fighting on the European ground, because it is the one that will allow us to have optimal efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u66	The rapporteur-general of the special committee has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u67	I will say two words about the method, since a number of you have mentioned it and it seems to me that it is worth returning to it a little before we get to the bottom of it. Everyone recognizes that the sequence in which we passed a provision in the EGALIM Act that the Senate defeated and which we are discussing today is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u68	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u69	It must be regretted, even if it should not lead us to persevere in error. Today we have a debate between ourselves that we should have had six months ago. It took place here but was not supported by sufficient information as to the impact of this provision. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for her hard work in providing us with information. This led the Senate to delete it and allowed us, Mr.Potier, to have a long discussion in committee last week, showing that the production of plant protection products represents about 1000 jobs and that of the production of seeds – which use these kinds of products and are exported today – almost 1500. Mr Potier, last week in committee, I rejected your amendments without wishing to propose an alternative and on the basis of a very important argument in my view: when you want to delete a product, you can do two things, either to ban people from using it or to ban them from producing it. In the first case, even if it only applies in a small region of the world – this is the case of France, which you will recognize represents only a small portion of the world's agricultural area – this ban opens up a market for alternatives. You did it, Madam Chair of the Committee on Sustainable Development, when you were a minister, with neonicotinoids, by removing uses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u70	We also did this for pesticides: they were banned from communities and individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u71	However, from the moment you delete a use, you create a very strong incentive to consider alternatives, and you force producers in some way to adapt. If you delete a production, as we plan to do here, without affecting the market, the risk is to move production. In my view, therefore, we must distinguish between the production of plant protection products, of which we are talking today, and the seed. On the side of this production, we are talking about about 4% of the world market produced in France. Mr Potier, you remember that this is the argument that I used in committee: if we delete the authorization to produce them overnight, the risk is that production will move a few hundred kilometres and the impact on the environment will therefore be zero.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u72	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u73	This is the discussion we had in committee, which led us to reject your amendments without any alternative solutions. I thank you, however, because after the vote you concluded this discussion with an alert that honours you. You told us: we will never achieve anything if we behave like this: companies will not change; we will be unable to convince other countries of the need to make efforts; We will lose the role that France has been able to play for years, that is, that of a country having on a number of topics a little ahead of each other and able to convince each other. Faced with this paradox, namely that if we can ban production, the environmental impact will be zero, we could certainly do nothing. But we've been working. And, after Dominique Potier, I would like above all to thank the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning. Indeed, Madam President, while you have been in Nairobi, Kenya over the last few days, and despite the time lag, you have spared neither your time nor your efforts so that we can exchange and try to find solutions together. If I'm not sure that the one that is proposed is totally appropriate for you, I think that it is what it is in part thanks to you. Thank you very much for that. Mr Fasquelle, since you have referred to President Macron's international commitments, I would like to read you a few sentences from a statement adopted in Nairobi on which Africa hopes that all stakeholders – States, cities, but also businesses and consumers – will commit themselves to advancing the protection of African ecosystems. This is how the chapter I am going to talk to you about – the protection of African ecosystems – is called. As you said, Mr.Potier, like you, Mrs.Pompili: our duty is also to support each other so that these ecosystems can also be preserved. This chapter is in English: you will excuse the approximate translation: "The participants stressed that new business models are emerging to build more resilient societies, more sustainable land use and biodiversity conservation based on bio-based solutions and the collaboration of all stakeholders. Participants also noted that research and education, including on soil sustainability, had made significant progress, although still needed to be done in order to fully transform production models. They also stressed that bio-based solutions should be more widespread. » Mr. Fasquelle, you're going to say that all this is just words.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u74	And you won't be able to contradict me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u75	In the same document, France is committed to the French Development Agency setting up a credit facility for sixteen countries to help them develop their biodiversity strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u76	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u77	If there are words, then there are also actions and there are also money. What can we do to ensure that, in France, this type of international commitment, which in my view honours France, also helps us – this has been said by Mr.Alauzet – to resolve the ultimate paradox of the ecological transition? Is it indeed a constraint or an opportunity? Can we make France a champion of this ecological transition, not by complaining about the jobs we destroy, but by welcoming those we create? That is what we are trying to do with the amendment which I will defend later, but which I believe is important to present to you now, so that you have them in mind when you decide on the deletion amendments. Firstly, the amendments tabled today abolish both production, transport and storage, which have consequences for two industries: seed production and plant protection products. We propose to focus on production, knowing that we are world leaders in seed, transport and storage and that exports account for more than 20% of the market. The fact that we export seeds whose production process itself required the use of this type of product is in fact virtuous. Indeed, you plant a seed in a product, which avoids spreading. This limits and also contains significant pollution related to these products. I shall therefore, first of all, propose that seed be excluded from the scope of this provision. Secondly, to take into account what has been said by some, and even by the majority of you, I propose that you study how it is possible to put pressure on the production lines, that is, on the companies that are present in France in order to force them and push them towards the transition, so that together they and we, and not them against us, or against us, can invent the future and be ambitious. In this amendment, we propose a ban on the production of these products as early as 2025. I am not going into detail: these are products directly included in the scope of a European regulation on plant health products. There are a few exceptions related to non-agricultural uses such as embalming, taxidermy and a few others: I will therefore ask you to exclude them. In 2025, however, the ban on plant protection products will be applied, while proposing derogations. However, in order for a company to benefit from it, it will have to engage in a partnership with the Government and sign a convention setting out ambitious objectives that are fully in line with those I mentioned and that have just been defined in Africa yesterday and today: biocontrol, research and – it is very important – employment, so that we do not oppose each other. That is the meaning of the amendment which I will propose to you and which you can already read; We'll discuss it later. These are also the reasons why I am requesting the withdrawal of these deletion amendments; Otherwise, the Commission's opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u78	All right. That seems to be going in the right direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u79	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u80	Since the opening of the sitting, the discussion has been extremely intense, the terms of the debate have been well put and I believe that everything has been said. I wouldn't want to be redundant. Nevertheless, I want to reiterate that we are determined to implement the ecological and energy transition. The ambition of the Government and the majority is clear: it is a matter of making France a leading country, an example, not a follower country, to the trailer of the world. That is the meaning of the statements made by the President of the Republic at the One planet summit in Nairobi, to which Ms. Pompili referred, since she was present on the spot and heard them live. To succeed in the ecological and energy transition, we need to invent innovative and transformative solutions. Now those who have research teams, know-how and operators to do this, today they are the industrialists; It's their job. Therefore, and in order to abound in the direction of several speakers, to oppose ecology and economy, and even, I will go further, ecology and industry, is a contradiction. It would be tantamount to pretending that we have our hands clean – except that we would no longer have our hands. To prohibit the production in France of products authorized for manufacture in other European countries, this amounts, potentially, to a relocation of industrial sites, which is moreover without any immediate concrete impact on the environment, it seems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u82	Is that what we want?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u83	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u84	It has been said that France weighs less than 4% of the total volume of plant protection production worldwide. The decision to stop this production would likely lead to its transfer to other countries. Which ones? I assure you: I think it would be a priority for other countries in Europe, where production sites are numerous, rather than for countries where regulations are less favourable for workers. Nevertheless, it would be a signal that, as the Special Rapporteur said, would not bring any immediate benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u85	But that would be an example to follow!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u86	For us to be in the game, we must play at European level. European negotiations can go fast – some here know. This is what happened with plastics: on this point, France's role has been particularly exemplary. As far as plant protection products are concerned, negotiations have begun. We have already had transpositions. Truth requires, however, to say that negotiation is more complex than for plastics. At this stage, we did not necessarily win. This means that we must all mobilize – not only the Government, but also the Parliament – and act together with the European Parliament. In a trialogue, three parties discuss: if two align with the same position, it makes things easier. The proposal we make to you is that we take into account that it is the industrialists who have the capacity to find ecological solutions, and that we accompany them – but that we accompany them firmly, asking them to make commitments. You said, Mr. Potier, that at this stage, these commitments seemed a little modest. I'll give you notice. I think we need to go further than 15% biocontrol in 2025, but that is a way of giving ourselves a line. It must be admitted that the industrialists did not have much time to take a stand themselves. The points on which it is considered important that they commit themselves have been clarified. The rapporteur-general listed them: investment in biocontrol, the share of biocontrol, the organisation of research and development teams, in particular in France, and employment, in two aspects: the current use, with the need to accompany the transformation of production lines which would have to abandon the manufacture of products whose use is prohibited in Europe, and the establishment of new production lines for biocontrol products, which will be more coherent in duration and more sustainable in economic terms as well. This compromise seems to me to be balanced. Companies are aware – even if I will not go so far as to say that they are enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u87	[[Smile]] They don't jump out of joy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u88	They obviously feel that they are being imposed additional requirements and are concerned about the implementation of these provisions. However, the next six months of negotiations will allow us to go further than these initial considerations. In any case, I think it's a strong lever to transform our industry and give it that quarter of an hour's lead that will make us meet. I would also like to make some clarifications. The amendments proposed here all result in the elimination of jobs for seed workers. You insisted, Mr Potier, on the need to distinguish between seeders and plant protection producers. However, apart from the rapporteur-general's amendment, all the answers proposed call into question their activity. I would therefore like to point out that the seed producers are at the end of the chain, that they are dependent on plant protection products, that they have specifications and that there are countries that require the use of certain plant protection products for regulatory reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u89	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u90	For example, New Zealand and Thailand impose the use of certain products that we have decided to ban. It is their sovereign choice, and I think they are equipped with health and environmental authorities. This must be respected. I can assure you that the seeders, who are also working on biocontrol and the implementation of the ecological transition, are caught between two fires. It seems to me important to get them out of this discussion and to go back to the ban on transport and storage. Mr. Potier asked how violators who cheat on export rules could be prosecuted. On this issue, we had prepared a sub-amendment, which we can submit to you. We wrote it, but it was not well received because it was considered to be a matter of keeping the law – while it goes a little further than that. It is available and we would gladly submit it to you. Last point, on the health consequences of exports. Why do we find it difficult to answer this question? Simply because if we produce, for the most part, we do not export; This is often from Germany. We therefore do not have national data on most French products for export. However, I can give you information on two products. The first is propisochlor, which has been banned since 2009 due to insufficient data to characterize the absence of risks to human health and bones. It is exported mainly to Russia and Ukraine. The second is permethrin, a pyrethroid insecticide that acts on the nervous system and has been banned as a pesticide since 2008. We export it to Switzerland, for the most part, and to a lesser extent to Morocco. It is part of the WHO list of essential medicines and continues to be used for other uses in Europe. Attention must be paid to the caricatural remarks that can be heard in the media – but that, of course, I have not heard in this Chamber – that the export of banned products to Europe would be exclusively directed at countries in difficulty or to emerging countries that would not have the means to control them. It should be borne in mind that most of these exports are destined for countries with health authorities, that they are highly supervised, that we need to share our health data with the countries concerned so that they can accept them and that this is the choice of sovereign countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u91	It's the same for any product!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u92	Even if there are still countries that do not have the means to carry out such monitoring or that may be under pressure, this does not represent the majority of cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u93	All the more reason to vote on Mr Potier's amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u94	Mr Potier, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u95	At this point, certainly not! I thank you for the accuracy of your answers, Madam Secretary of State, but we still do not have the list of products concerned. I do not want to argue, but it is not normal that, eight days after requesting it, we do not have this list and that we do not know the health and environmental reasons for which these products are banned. For having been with the plant protection producers' union under the Ecophyto plan, I know that whenever the law does not prevent it, the interest of these multinationals is, in the case of molecules for which the investments in patent and research have been amortized, to continue to produce them and, if they are prohibited in one country, to dump them elsewhere. This is a lure of gain. Only the law, by setting a more virtuous trajectory or a ban, can change things. But what industry has negotiated with you is the simple extension of the current trajectory: 25% more biocontrol in 2017, 30% more in 2030. I have seen the ministry's notes on the ongoing discussions, which you were kind enough to convey to me: this corresponds to the natural evolution of the trajectory; the negotiation you mention does not foresee any inflection. Two years ago, by the law on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies, we gave ourselves the means to prevent, in the long run, the production of products at the end of the world under conditions that we would judge to be unfavorable for ourselves. Today, we are facing an ethical dilemma that is not at all anti-economic – you will not be able to convince me. On the contrary, this issue is intrinsically linked to the economy of the twenty-first century: we do not have the right to sell products that we forbid ourselves to consume. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I will end with a provocation, which I ask you to take as a call to reflection, not as an easy and free speech. Coherence would like us to apply the five-year deadline for continuing to export these products at home to allow them to be used.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u97	Mr Bruno Bonnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u98	It is true that the debate is rich and we are hesitant. The opposite would be surprising, since all of us here are determined to do better for the planet and at the same time we have to face certain realities. Some refer to economic criteria – employment, activity, expertise, international competition – while others focus on more political dimensions, including posture or affirmation of principle, while others rely on expertise. I've heard so many numbers that I didn't pick up one! And as I am not myself an expert on the subject, I do not know whether it is 1000, 2000 or 3700 jobs and whether it is 4%, 18% or 22% of market share that are involved. Other colleagues finally say that France must be the best student in Europe and inspire other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u99	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u100	All of this makes it difficult to decide. Those who know me know that I am passionate about Nietzsche, who conceives the world as will and representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u101	Did Nietzsche say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u102	I want to tell you that ecological transition must be understood as will and representation. Someone else, appreciated by other benches in this Chamber, I mean Gramsci,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u103	[[Smile]] Ah, that's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u104	... said that the pessimism of knowledge must always be opposed to the optimism of the will. Mr Potier spoke of public impotence, which in this House may sound like a paradox.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u105	In that case, change things!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u106	I want to oppose you, Mr. Potier, the power of will. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] If I speak in this way, it is to tell you that I am going to vote against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u107	That's the Republic running it all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u108	And this, for a simple and good reason, is that I prefer to mark the road rather than close it. I think in ecology there is a notion of hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u109	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u110	In conclusion, and I invite you to meditate on this reflection, I believe that the ecological transition should not be managed as a case of conscience, but as a case of trust. Therefore, let us trust the professionals of the sector, let us stop wanting to be experts in everything and let us mark the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u111	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u112	[[Smile]] They're not the walkers anymore, they're the beacons...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u113	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The rapporteur-general explained that the amendment he was about to present was aimed precisely at marking this path. Let us act as wise parliamentarians, and instead of banning and moving on, let us organize, as we have done for glyphosate, the monitoring of the energy transition, so that it leads us to the best.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u115	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 19 and 1227.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u116	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 45 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 10 Against 35
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u117	On Amendments Nos 1224 and 1320, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me four amendments, Nos 52, 521, 1224 and 1320, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Dominique Potier's amendment No 52 is being defended. I call Mr Alauzet to support Amendment No. 521.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u118	It tends to advance the date of the ban to 2022 for products that have substitutes, for which the ban would be easier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u119	Mrs Pompili has the floor to support Amendment No. 1224.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u120	I have already defended this amendment, which tends to extend the deadline until 2025, with work at European level, so that the ban will take place on the same date. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] I would like to thank the rapporteur-general and to acknowledge the considerable work he has done to find a compromise and get out of this matter from the top.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u121	How wonderful! How we love each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u122	The rapporteur-general is here to work, that's his role!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u123	I also welcome my colleague Jean-Marc Zulesi, who has also worked hard to find a compromise with the Secretary of State. The compromise that you are proposing, Mr rapporteur-general, is based on trust in companies, but a relative confidence since it is accompanied by supervision. A ban is imposed by 2025, while providing for derogations for companies that play the game, which are contractually committed with the State to strong decisions in terms of employment, research and development and biocontrol. I hear the principle of such a compromise and could subscribe to it, because it reflects a willingness to move forward and to encourage entrepreneurs to engage in a transition, while accompanying them. The only problem in my view is that, if the 2025 deadline leaves them a little time, they are allowed to continue their current production ad vitam aeternam if they make efforts. With regard to the production and research and development sites concerned, the Secretary of State spoke about a ten-year horizon. I think – and that would be, I do not hide from you, a great effort in the light of my convictions – that if we set the ban at 2025, with derogations for the most virtuous companies, who are making efforts, while imposing an absolute ban in 2030, I could agree, even if the deadline seems to me to be very long. In this case I could withdraw my amendment, because that is the game of compromise. On the other hand, the absence of a deadline is tantamount to giving an endless right to pollute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u125	I have a real problem with that. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is what I wanted to say, Mr rapporteur-general, by reiterating my thanks for the constructive work you have done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u126	I call Mr Roland Lescure, rapporteur-general, to support Amendment No. 1320 and to give the committee's opinion on the other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u127	The compromise, Madam President Pompili, is written black on white. As you said, I've worked a lot in the last few hours, just like the Secretary of State. She did not negotiate with the industrialists, Mr.Potier, but much discussion in interdepartmental, because this kind of decision is difficult to make. To both of us, I believe – and without mentioning names – we have been able to twist a few arms. There is no date for a total ban, it is true, but still a near deadline, set at 2025. Companies which do not make any effort until then will be prohibited from producing. Finally, we wanted to introduce a legislative provision on parliamentary control. Nothing prevents us, of course, from launching an information mission. We will see together, Mrs Pompili, how to organise parliamentary scrutiny; But, subject of course to business secrecy, we wanted to write that "the competent permanent committees of the National Assembly and the Senate obtain communication of the transitional agreements at the time of their conclusion and of the results of the checks on possible breaches of these agreements". For the other amendments, of course, it is a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavourable opinion. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to vote on Amendment No 1320.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u129	We have indeed worked hard to achieve a solution that I believe is balanced. The famous note in which, in a rather limited period of time, as many answers as possible were given to the commitments made by the industrialists is a starting point. As we know, I'm pretty catchy in the negotiations. So we are probably not going to leave this with the Directorate-General for Enterprise, with regard to the dynamics of biocontrol. To ensure this transition, we must get things, both positive and negative, from the European Union. I repeat, it is not only a question of imposing a ban in 2025 or 2030, but also of obtaining a common definition of biocontrol and a regulatory framework for developing alternatives. France, which weighs 4% on the market for the products we are talking about, does not weigh very heavily on the market for biocontrol either: in order to develop, it must be part of a European or even a global market. The Nairobi Declaration, therefore, is not just words, it is also facts: it stresses the need to create alternatives, through the demand that consumers make for products that meet their expectations. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on Amendments Nos 52, 521 and 1224 and favourable on Amendment No 1320.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u130	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u131	I have been listening for an hour and understand all the difficulties that arise from the question. I therefore, in turn, salute the work that has been done. We will always have contradictions to deal with. All that man does generates positive and negative externalities, as they say in economics. Of course, it's difficult; Of course, people, whose work it is, produce and transport plant protection products. But the reality is there: these products are poisons, and we cannot continue to introduce hundreds of tons of a poison into the soil, which then spreads into the chain of nature. Someday we will have to act on the substance of the problem. I therefore once again welcome the work done, and make Mrs Pompili's remarks to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u132	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u133	I too share Mrs Pompili's view when she welcomes the excellent work of the rapporteur-general. The remark also applies to the Secretary of State. That would, in my view, justify the withdrawal of Amendment No 1224 and those similar to it. By voting on Amendment No 1320 by the rapporteur-general, we would set out a precise framework and a precise path.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u134	It's fake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u135	We have seen it in the general state of food, some of us in our Chamber are overbidding. This also contributes to some confusion outside the Chamber, with the general public. There would be, on the one hand, those who want more and more – but forget the principle of reality, as Gilles Lurton recalled – on the other, those who would let him go. I thank you, the rapporteur-general, the Secretary of State, for the amendment you have drafted, and for the precise course and objective you set through it. If Ms Pompili's amendment, and the others similar to her, were not withdrawn, any reasonable person should reject them. In any case, that is what I will do to vote on Amendment No 1320.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u136	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u137	Thierry Benoit just outlined the group's position, so I'll be brief. No one in this House, I would remind colleagues, can be content to see products that are banned in Europe produced in France. Nor can anyone be satisfied that French legislation is being used to carry out combat that should be carried out at European level, whether it is reciprocity or a ban that applies to all. The compromise of the rapporteur-general seems interesting to me, because it allows us to negotiate with the companies concerned, with a view to changing production while maintaining it in France. The companies we are talking about, I believe, are held by foreign capital; They are therefore very sensitive to the question of investment, which they can move very easily abroad, where they have other factories. Therefore, the path of dialogue is particularly interesting if they are to continue to invest in new productions in France. We therefore support Amendment No 1320.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u138	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u139	For my part, I do not thank Mr Lescure, whom Mrs Pompili thanked, nor do I thank the majority. Quite frankly, what a story! We have already had this debate in the framework of the EGALIM, and the pension closed at first reading and then in the special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u140	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u141	That is the principle of parliamentary work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u142	You've been coming back to it through a DIY amendment on a corner table for two days, and we have, of course, a lot of difficulty in analyzing it. You write, for example, that producers will benefit from a derogation if they undertake, through "a binding transitional agreement", to develop alternative productions. Is that to say that producers will have to engage in alternative ways? As far as I know, it is those to whom manufacturers sell these products that must engage in alternative production methods! So all this is very confusing. Perhaps there are a few specialists in our chamber, but it is not very serious to "think" such a subject in the end – or rather in the middle, alas – of the discussion of this text. Our position, as specified by Raphaël Schellenberger, is to remain in the Senate version. That was also the position you expressed in the special committee. On this question, in any case, our group is divided. Some of us will vote for your amendment, Mr General, and others will abstain. But I regret and denounce the method on such a sensitive subject, which, as we know, has a particular resonance in opinion. [[Ms. Véronique Louwagie applauds]] If I therefore strongly condemn the form, on the substance, I, like some of my colleagues, am reserved as to the real scope of the amendment, because I have not been able to really analyse it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u143	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u144	We are a few who share the conviction of our colleagues Potier and Pompili. But there is ethics of conviction – and, I repeat, I am convinced – and there is ethics of responsibility. The amendment tabled by our rapporteur-general shows responsibility: we will therefore vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u145	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u146	You call Weber to the rescue, dear colleague, but we are on the ethical side of responsibility when we invoke climate change and say that the collapse of biodiversity is near and that we must therefore change our model. If the amendment you are talking about is the result of a compromise, if it resumes old trajectories by simply dressing them differently, then it is not at all, despite the effort it represents and which I welcome, up to the ethical requirement which must animate us and which is absolutely not contradictory with the desire to develop the industry of the future and the 1000 corresponding jobs in our territories. It is not a question of guilt or of invoking a heavy moral, but of asking us a question: what allows us to think that products that we have refused at home, for our children, our workers, our soil, are better at the other end of the planet?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u147	Prohibiting production in France will not solve the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u148	This makes no sense from an ethical point of view, not to mention the consequences, in an interdependent world, of the human and environmental damage caused elsewhere by these products. In this interdependent world, faced with the risk of ecological collapse, we must learn to think in terms of solidarity and not solitary sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u149	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u150	I can hear the arguments put forward; But we are going to decide to go back to something that had been voted on: that is the reality. From a moral and ethical point of view, there is no justification for us to continue to produce and sell what we forbid ourselves to consume. We can use all possible arguments: if we consider that something is bad for us, we cannot produce it for the rest of the planet, including for economic reasons. Dominique Potier is right on this point. This again raises the question, in the context of ecological transition, of ecological planning, particularly with regard to job conversion. In any case, we cannot avoid urgency, nor can we avoid rules. I understand well: we must trust, we must progress with the industrialists, the producers; But, at some point, rules are essential to move things forward, since the criteria that take precedence do not necessarily correspond, for economic and competitive reasons, to the general interest. For all these reasons, and given the situation, the provision that you are about to adopt is a bit of a mess. If we were to present it to the 35,000 to 40,000 high school students who are obviously currently before the National Assembly for Climate and the Environment, I do not think it would be a great success.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u151	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u152	I ask for a suspension of the sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u153	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u154	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u155	The meeting was resumed. Mr Eric Alauzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u156	I will withdraw my amendment. I have observed, since the meeting of the special committee, a real evolution, thanks to the important work that has been done: this Assembly is indeed alive. I must say, even if I do not share their ideas, that it is thanks to the members of the group The Republicans that the book was handed over to the profession. Ms Hai, head of the Republic Group in motion for this text, has also worked a lot. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the prospects, which you have given us, of commitments at European level to deal with the subject. We do our best at the national level, but we are confined to our borders and that limits us. In any case, no one will be able to say, in three years' time, in five years' time, that he did not know, and if one day he falls, there will be no surprise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u157	Mrs. Barbara Pompili has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u158	As I told you, I always leave the door open to the possibility of a sub-amendment to include in the amendment of the Special Committee the 2030 deadline for the total ban. In its present state, this amendment confers a right to pollute ad vitam aeternam, and that, for me, is not acceptable. If we could agree on 2030, I would withdraw my amendment; But as, a priori, this is not the case, I maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u159	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u160	First of all, I want to draw your attention to a law to which the amendment of the Special Committee refers when it refers to business secrecy. Far be it from me to increase the debate: we have already taken a lot of time and I appreciate your listening and your patience. But if business secrecy were to limit the communication of multinational companies about their research and commercial efforts, and that hindered the manifestation of the truth about it, you might find it regrettable to have passed the law on the protection of business secrecy, which we had pointed out to you from an ethical point of view: that of concealing practices. Then, for your information, there is not only the street or the young people who ask, at least as much as the President of the Republic, to save the planet: there is also the National Institute for Agricultural Research, which has started a zero pesticide programme. The amendment of the Special Committee falls far short of the state of science and society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u161	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1224.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u162	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u163	You want to step in? You can do it after the election.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u164	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I just wanted to ask for a session suspension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u165	That's not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u166	That's not possible, the vote is open!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u167	The majority is divided...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u168	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u169	Ah, this one, I was waiting for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u170	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 43 Number of votes cast 38 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 6 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u171	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u172	I ask for a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u173	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u174	The meeting was resumed. I put to the vote Amendment No. 1320.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u175	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 30 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 27 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u176	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u177	Helping downtown businesses is crucial, as they are part of the businesses that need to benefit from growth and change. This bill should have given them a full place. In 2001, 10 per cent of city centres had a commercial vacancy rate of more than 10 per cent; In 2015, this rate reached 62%! I tabled, at the first reading of the text, a series of amendments, which I am resubmitting to the House for this new reading, designed to provide the shops in the city centres with the means to develop. Unfortunately, they've all been retaliated. I put forward several solutions and proposals: for example, a method of calculation that would have ended the debate on the vacancy rate by setting objective and comparable perimeters between cities. I also suggested introducing the competence of the mayor of the most populated municipality of the barge zone, as well as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Crafts and Crafts, within the departmental commissions for commercial development, so that they could rely more on local actors to assess applications for commercial exploitation. I also proposed that the mayor of the most populated municipality in the barge zone should be seized of commercial projects with a sales area equal to or greater than 500 square metres. I also wanted the creation of free zones within the city centres, an incentive and essential measure to encourage businesses to re-establish themselves there. Finally, I suggested encouraging, through a series of tax measures, the return of shops to the city centres. These measures on downtown shops had their full place in the PACTE bill. You've decided otherwise, which is really a shame. One day we'll have to tackle this problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u178	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 519.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u179	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u180	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 534.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u181	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u182	The Commission has deleted Article 8d. On identical amendments Nos 32 and 1061, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently of a request for a public vote. I also have before me a request for a public vote by the same group on Amendment No 1205. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I have before me five amendments, Nos 32, 1061, 1205, 1204 and 1258, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 32 and 1061 and Nos 1204 and 1258 are identical. I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u183	I am defending, together with several colleagues in the UDI Group, Action and Independents, two amendments aimed at restoring Article 8d, since it can be considered mistakenly deleted. This article deals with trade through the Labour Code and the Commercial Code. I would like to extend the reflections and debates that the Government has rightly initiated over the past few months through a number of legislative measures. Our Minister Julien Denormandie has launched work on the Action coeur de ville program. It is recognized that trade, including food trade, has a central role in cities, particularly medium-sized cities and rural towns. This subject has been running for several years. The news in Brittany reveals how imperfect the law on opening shops on Sundays is. In fact, a large surface, in Ille-et-Vilaine, obtained the cancellation of a prefectural decree governing Sunday work. But let us say that we are, as in other regions, showing initiative: in the country of Rennes and in the country of Fougères, the local elected representatives of the communes and intercommunalities are asked as mediators. They bring together stakeholders involved in opening shops on Sundays, including employee unions and employers' representatives. The aim is not to open shops on Sundays more often. The reflection of the elected representatives is on the need to revitalize our medium-sized cities and rural towns: regulation is needed in order to strike a balance between trade in our cities and trade in the periphery. Some players in the large distribution sector, located in the periphery, are trampling on the legislative provisions and prefectural decrees and passing into force, systematically opening their shops on Sundays. This situation raises difficulties of several kinds, particularly in the application of labour law. In fact, the elected representatives calling for greater regulation do so in order to protect employees from large-scale distribution, who are very much in demand and work under very demanding collective agreements – moreover, one day Parliament would have to look at this subject even more precisely. It concerns the preservation of the working conditions of employees in the large distribution sector. It is also about the revitalization and balance of medium-sized towns and town centres. This subject is important. To this end, the elected representatives propose to bring together stakeholders to reach an agreement which, formalised in a charter, limits and frames the number of Sundays and public holidays during which shops in the large periphery areas can be opened. This is indeed a regulatory mechanism. It takes into account two criteria. The first is the area concerned at the level of intercommunality. For example, the elected representatives of Rennes are working with social actors and employers – notably the Union des entreprises 35, which represents the Breton employer – to reach a consensus on a given area, such as Rennes Métropole. Similarly, the elected representatives of the agglomeration of Fougères, which brings together an average city of 20,000 inhabitants and its peripheral communes – notably Lécousse, where a large area is located – enter into an agreement bringing together the employees, the employers and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ille-et-Vilaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u184	Now we spend ten minutes on each amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u185	Commercial area is the second criterion taken into account. In Rennes, for example, we can regulate Sunday work for commercial areas equal to or less than 500 square metres, while limiting ourselves to Fougères to surfaces equal to or less than 300 square metres, because the commercial structure is different. Amendments Nos 32 and 1205 aim to enable local actors to conclude a local agreement, which is reflected in a stakeholder charter. They also provide for the possibility of requesting the prefect, once the agreement has been drawn up and the charter has been signed, to formalise it by means of a prefectural order, which will be secured if we adopt one of the two amendments. These amendments are not intended to reopen the debate on the liberalisation of Sunday work, which remains regulated and framed, a la carte, according to territorial realities, but to promote the search for consensus while allowing differentiation: one could thus adopt a provision in Alsace, another in the Hauts-de-France, another in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, in Occitanie, in Nouvelle-Aquitaine or in Brittany. The general principle is to trust the actors of the territory, as well as collective intelligence. In Brittany, the Prime Minister recently signed, with the President of the Regional Council, a public action contract, which extends the pact of the future concluded in 2013, as a first act of differentiation. I would point out that Amendments Nos 32 and 1205 are supported by the local elected representatives, as well as by the workers' unions, which I met last Sunday in Rennes with several local elected representatives. The proposed scheme is also supported by the Chairman of the Brittany Regional Council. The mayors of Rennes and Fougères, as well as those of small towns, are among the local elected representatives. This may make you sigh, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee, but if I take some time to detail the subject, it is very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u186	Don't worry, Mr. Benoit, it's not your words that make me sigh, so much for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u187	Local actors have made parliamentarians in their respective departments aware of this – that of Ille-et-Vilaine, for my part. Others will speak after me. I repeat: the subject is very important. That's why I'm taking the time for pedagogy. Thank you, colleagues, for your patience and listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u188	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u189	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1061.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u190	I will not repeat what Thierry Benoit has just said very brilliantly, which I thank him for. I am elected from the same department, more specifically from its coastal facade, as a Member of Parliament for the electoral district of Saint-Malo. The difficulties we face are identical. It happens that Fadila Khattabi and I have just published a report, written under the chairmanship of our colleague Blein – Daniel Fasquelle also contributed – evaluating the Macron law. This report will be presented to the Minister of Economy and Finance in about 15 days. Between its publication and today, several decrees prohibiting certain large surfaces from opening on Sundays were broken. The result was a completely anarchic situation in Brittany regarding the opening of shops on Sundays, which caused a great deal of excitement, particularly in Ille-et-Vilaine. My amendment is identical to that of Thierry Benoit. We believe that local elected officials – both departmental and regional –, those responsible for large areas and other economic partners are able to agree and conclude agreements. We managed, in Saint-Malo, long before the promulgation of the Macron law to define a tourist area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u192	The spirit of responsibility of local elected officials must be given the recognition it deserves. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u193	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 1205.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u194	I defended him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u195	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1204.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u196	We are in line with what has just been said, even if I will be much shorter, because I do not have the time to write on this important subject. Let me just say this: we are proposing to amend article L. 3132-29 of the Labour Code, with a view to re-establishing the article voted by the Senate, which improves the framework for the opening of shops on Sundays.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u197	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor to support Amendment No. 1258.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u198	In Brittany, as everywhere in France, the struggle for the revitalization of our city centres and city centres is a priority for elected officials and citizens. However, the opening of large food stores on Sundays harms local shops, particularly food shops. In order to ensure fairness between companies in terms of competition and to maintain trade balances, local agreements have been concluded for many years in several territories, not only in Ille-et-Vilaine, but also in Lower Rhine and Upper Garonne. However, these agreements are threatened, even though they have demonstrated their effectiveness and legitimacy. We propose to give them a sound legal framework. In addition, it seems to us legitimate to allow local elected representatives to invest in this matter, which concerns them in the foreground, without, however, calling into question the primary role of professional organisations and prefectures. By introducing the sales area as a criterion for allowing or not to allow the weekly closure of the shops concerned, we not only give room for manoeuvre to local elected officials, but we introduce a real tool to preserve the commercial vitality of our city centres and city centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u199	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u201	Mr Denis Sommer, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u202	This is a very important subject. At first reading, many colleagues, sitting on all benches, addressed the issue of Sunday work. At that time, we agreed not to deal with it under the PACTE bill. My opinion on this point has not changed. We need to take a broad approach. Mr Benoit and Mr Lurton, you refer to the experience in Brittany, which seems particularly interesting to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u203	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u204	The Territory's elected representatives and economic actors – the traders –, on the basis of objectives defined for it, have been able to build intelligent compromises, enabling them to live Sunday work in a relatively harmonious way. In the run-up to the municipal elections, the issue of Sunday work and the presence of trade in the city centre and its revitalization will be raised in large, if not large, terms. We have started to learn from the experience, so we need to perfect the devices, building much more on the local experience. We must, as part of a bill, carry out collective work on Sunday work in a relatively short period of time. The article adopted by the Senate suffers from a constitutional problem. Indeed, it gives a public actor the opportunity to intervene in social dialogue, which is not permitted by law. In addition, it provides that the agreement reached relates to a single category of businesses, thus giving the latter the opportunity to impose rules on others. I repeat: it is not constitutional. That is why we cannot restore the wording adopted by the Senate. I therefore call for the withdrawal of the amendments, while making the commitment that we will collectively work on a bill on this subject, in order to formulate rapid responses, taking into account experience and affirming the need to trust the territories in the organization of economic and commercial life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u206	Everything was very well said by the rapporteur. Mr Lurton, you mentioned a working group whose work is being finalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u207	This is an evaluation mission!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u208	The Macron Law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u209	Yes, it is. The Macron Law Assessment Mission will be required to make proposals on Sunday work. The Government has made a commitment to work proactively in this regard, on the basis of the observations that the mission will make. If we consider that it has no place in this bill, our commitment is to take it together and move forward. In addition to the fact that the analysis of the legal scope of the wording adopted by the Senate, presented by the rapporteur, is valid, it seems to us important to consider all aspects of the subject, which you know better than I do, Mr.Lurton. A fair balance must be struck between employment, tourist attraction and competition between small and large areas. We must work together on these aspects, as part of a bill. I'm making a commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u210	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u211	Madam Secretary of State, if I believe the rumours of the majority about this famous bill, I very much fear that it does not correspond at all to the report that we have just submitted, so much so. If that is the case, the debates will be complex! Mr.Rapporteur, you are saying that this matter is not within the scope of the PACTE bill. I regret: there is much more to this than the ban on plant protection products that we were discussing just now! We are here at the heart of the economic activity of our regions. You cannot argue that the opening of shops on Sundays has no effect on the economic activity of our cities. On the contrary, we are at the heart of the subject! For once, we have the opportunity to give the floor to local officials, local elected officials and local economic partners. As for the right of peoples to self-determination, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u212	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u213	[[Smile]] In this case, the right of Breton shops to dispose of themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u214	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u215	Madam Secretary of State, this time I cannot content myself with your answer and your proposal. I have been a member of Parliament since 2007. The issue of Sunday work was discussed at the time of Nicolas Sarkozy – remember the DIY stores, Plan-de-Campagne, the Mallié law... This was discussed under the previous legislature, in a law called Macron. You explain to us, Madam Secretary of State, that you want to examine the question of Sunday work: it has already been done! He who was then Minister of Economy, and who became President of the Republic, looked at everything. He was tempted to open in large; He then revised his ambitions downwards and gave a framework, particularly for international tourist areas, air terminals, and others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u216	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u217	Madam Secretary of State, Mr.Rapporteur, you are announcing a bill to open stores on Sundays – or a bill, if you leave the House of Commons to act. This means that you want to touch the current legislative framework, which you consider insufficient: you want to open the shops more widely on Sundays. And here I tell you, Madam Secretary of State, rapporteurs, you will find me in your way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u218	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u219	For something distinguishes us: I consider Sunday rest a necessity. My view of society is that women and men living in France must have a day of rest in common – except for exceptions: health, safety, emergency services... and some shops, especially in tourist areas. Sunday must be in my opinion reserved for family life, relations between neighbours, friendly relations, associative life. It's a subject I've been working on for some time, and I'm going to confide in you: I've been talking this week with a parliamentarian of the majority, who told me that he wants the shops to open on Sundays: "You understand, Thierry, I'm a member of a big city, I'm bored on Sundays; I want to be able to go to the shops, or I'm going to Amazon. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u220	I think I know who this is...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u221	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I, on Sundays, have a lot of activities: with my family, with my friends, with my neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u222	At the speed at which this debate progresses, this Sunday, it is sure that you will be very busy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u223	I don't want to spend my Sunday in the shopping malls on the outskirts. I live near an area of activity where balances are installed: seven or eight years ago, I saw an open one on the day of All Saints; Of course, there were consumers. If the big surfaces were open at night, there would be people at night! Our responsibility as elected officials is to regulate: when it comes to opening shops on Sundays, when it comes to trade, I believe that we need as much freedom as possible, and as much regulation as necessary. In order to protect employees, to support downtown trade, local commerce, to encourage social dialogue, I hope that we support local agreements, which are encouraged by local elected representatives, which play the role of mediators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u225	At this stage of the discussion, we have several hypotheses: either we adopt one of our amendments – I would like to withdraw mine, it is not a problem; either the Government makes a proposal to us by submitting a similar amendment; or Again, following a practice that it sometimes adopts, like us centrists, the Government plays decentralization, subsidiarity, and proposes an experiment. He then identified one or two regions – the new community of Alsace and Brittany, for example – and experimented with local agreements signed by economic actors and elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u226	Let's not forget the Berry!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u227	You have just signed a pact of differentiation with the president of the Brittany Regional Council. Well, add an avenger to it. You'll give yourself time to think, and you won't do anything stupid. You will be able to look at what has been going on in Brittany for about ten years – in Saint-Malo, Rennes, Fougères, Quimper, Landerneau, Finistère... and I pass by. If you are convinced, you can generalize the experience. The bullet is on your side. I await your proposal, and in order to give you time to do so, I ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting. I ask the Government to take over! I am not stubborn, as some of us have heard about glyphosate and the marketing of plant protection products. I am simply asking for a proposal from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u228	Unfortunately, you do not have your group's delegation, Mr Benoit. You have the floor, Madame de La Raudière.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u229	[[Smile]] On behalf of our group, I ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u230	She is entitled, since you have the delegation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u231	[[Smile]] We work in pairs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u232	I mean, she still decides...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u233	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u234	The meeting was resumed. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u235	Nevertheless, I thank the Secretary of State for accepting the dialogue, but it turns out that there is no agreement possible: you do not want to accept our amendments, you do not want to table an amendment similar to ours, you do not want to experiment. You stick to the future, to a hypothetical future project that would follow a work yet to be done. I can see what is behind it: a larger opening of shops on Sundays. I would warn you, Madam Secretary of State, the chairman of the special committee, the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: if we wish during this parliamentary term to trivialise, or even generalize, Sunday work, I will be among those who will struggle to oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u236	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u237	Today, there is an emergency at home, in Ille-et-Vilaine, with a commercial group that does anything, that opens with impunity; and its classmates, settled on the outskirts of Rennes or other cities, will also open! Since one of the signs opens, they will go to the mayor of Rennes, the president of the Pays de Rennes, the president of the metropolis, and say that they also open! And, implicitly, by your inertia, you encourage them. We therefore, as you have understood, maintain our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u238	Which are good amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u239	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u240	I will support these amendments. It seems obvious to me that the majority wants to promote, or even trivialize, Sunday work; To claim the opposite would be contradicted by absolutely all the texts that have been voted since the beginning of the legislature. The issue of Sunday work has different aspects. The first, which Mr Benoit has just developed, is a choice of society: there is a day in the week when we are neither workers nor consumers, but where we can devote ourselves to our family and associations, to leisure, sport... or even do nothing at all. This is a long-standing conquest, and it seems to me very regrettable to question it. Moreover, because social pressure and unemployment are what they are, it is not true that employees have the choice to work or not on Sundays. The second aspect is the link with the environmental and climate issue – we are debating this issue at a time when young people are demonstrating very close to us. The model of consumerist and productivist society that leads to work on Sundays is obviously contradictory to the preservation of the environment. It is all the more contradictory that, when you allow large areas to open on Sundays, as my colleagues have noted, not only are you gradually destroying the proximity trade, which cannot satisfy the conditions that the law introduces to allow Sunday work, but you often favour urban sprawl. Indeed, people move ever further to go not to work but to consume on Sundays. It is clear that this model of society is absolutely destructive. Finally, as, in any case, purchasing power stagnates, the fact that you allow work on Sundays does not increase consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u241	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u242	It only delayed it since the French would go shopping no longer on Thursdays, for example, but on Sundays. For all these reasons, I will support these amendments, which seem to be common sense. We would obviously go further, but they can already be a safety net, especially for local businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u243	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 32 and 1061.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u244	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 9 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u245	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1205.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u246	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 34 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 8 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u247	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u248	Size precision: I do not intervene in the name of the group, but in my own name. Although there would have been a lot to say, I did not intervene at first reading on articles 9 and 10, which concern the professions of auditors and accountants. I had then deported and, in this connection, I would point out to the national representative that the register of deportations still does not exist. Like some of the colleagues on these benches, I pretend to be familiar with these two trades. Yet I did not make a single statement or take a single public position, as I feared that once again some dishonest minds would accuse me of corporatism or lobbyism. As such, I do not manage any trade union in relation to these two trades. If I intervene today, I find it regrettable that the Government has not evolved on this issue. I regret that the profession of auditors has not been better understood. Many associate it with that of the accountant. That's not the case! These two professions differ in substance, both in their missions and in the role they play for stakeholders. I regret, moreover, that Mrs La Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice, who exercises oversight over this profession, is not present today. Of course, we must simplify the lives of businesses – we all share this goal – but we must also simplify the lives of auditors! I am pleased to acknowledge that the profession is also responsible for this situation. Historically, the proponents of the theory that "an audit is an audit", regardless of the size of the company, have led the profession of auditors to produce more and more standards, which has led to the exclusion of the professional auditor from the head of the company who no longer perceives the interest of his intervention and retains only the cost, i.e. the constraint. To remedy this situation, I will now propose an appeal amendment to finally equip the Compagnie nationale des comptes aux comptes aux comptes (CNCC) with a department dedicated to small businesses, as it has created one for public interest entities. However, isn't it already too late? This is a serious time, because if we adopt the text of Article 9 as it stands, we will have very serious consequences!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u249	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u250	At the financial level, first of all: I remind you that the Council of State, on the basis of the law's faultless liability, will oblige the State to compensate professionals for "serious and special harm". This article will also call into question the economic security of our country, as well as the savings of our compatriots. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, why there are fewer financial scandals in France? It is first and foremost because there are auditors, whose mission of general interest is defined by law. Yes, this profession is a French exception, which many European countries do. How is it translated in concrete terms? First of all, through the revelation of all criminal facts: the law obliges the auditors, in the course of their missions, to reveal the criminal facts which they discover, to the prosecutor of the Republic. With the exception of the statements concerning Tracfin, such disclosure is not necessary for accountants, who have an advisory role. This disclosure obligation is intended to protect the entity and its leaders, as well as its environment and partners. Beyond prevention, the other French exception is the procedure of alerting the commercial court. In this bill, we are talking about helping businesses prosper. Please be aware that the auditor has a role to play in initiating collective proceedings. He avoids the isolation of an entrepreneur, until he can no longer straighten the bar. With this obligation of alert, the auditors play a fundamental role in preventing the financial difficulties of companies. The alert is a real opportunity to correct a situation and save jobs. The auditor has a role to play as a constable, a constable who also acts in the area of prevention. Finally, the French exception lies in the co-commissariat aux comptes for entities required to submit consolidated accounts, a provision that attracts interest in other countries. This co-commissariat aims to strengthen the auditor's independence from the most important audited entities. Yes, the auditor is useful, necessary, indispensable, not only for the development of our companies, therefore for the economic growth of our country, but also for the fight against fraud. He is the company's gendarmerie, the one who oversees the interests of all stakeholders, including those of the State, by ensuring the tax base. Madam Secretary of State, do you only know how many companies are correcting their accounts following the intervention of an auditor? Ladies and gentlemen, imagine for a moment our roads without radar, to warn, without gendarmes, to redirect. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to another consequence of these provisions, which, in my view, would be much more damaging: employment-related risks. You first, like Mr. Bruno Le Maire and the Government in general, are committed to fighting job loss. Was that not one of our campaign promises, ladies and gentlemen on all benches? Let us take the example of the amendment to ban the import of palm oil. Because of its repercussions in my department of Bouches-du-Rhône, in La Méde, at Total, I had not voted for it. I had voted against, not because I am in favour of the import and use of this oil, but because I was measuring the risk that this brutal suppression posed to 700 jobs, and hence to 700 families, in this territory. In this case, I was shared, as before, between an ethic of conviction, on the one hand – that is, ending the palm oil – and an ethic of responsibility, on the other. I preferred a reasonable solution to accompany a gradual release of palm oil. The responsibility is not just to press a button at four o'clock in the morning, as we would press a trigger. Even closer to my constituency in Gardanne, the end of coal was announced on January 1, 2022. The 60 employees affected by this closure, who threatened to set fire to the department a few days ago, will be accompanied, with reclassification measures. In addition, the plant will be given sufficient time to carry out a complete conversion. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking solemnly to you. In a few moments, you will vote for or against Article 9, which does not provide for any accommodation or accompaniment. Raising the legal audit threshold, in such a brutal way, without accompanying, without delay of adaptation, is to execute 10,000 jobs. These are 10,000 families potentially left on the tile!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u251	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u252	It is true that the auditors do not block the roundabouts and do not threaten to set the fire. It's not in their culture. They are above all legalistic, because they have been sworn in to respect and enforce the law. Responsibility requires that all parameters be taken into account before any decision is taken. Why would the accompaniment that prevailed for some not prevail for others? [[Mr. Dominique Potier applauds]] That is why, Madam Secretary of State, let me say to you as I think it is: do not count on me to participate in this firing squad. It is in the light of my ethics of responsibility, and in the interests of consistency, that, as with the 700 jobs mentioned above, I will not rely on the trigger by voting on this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u253	On the identical amendments Nos 20, 164, 576, 685 and 864 to delete Article 9, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Eric Woerth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u254	I agree with the excellent comments made by our colleague, Mr Laqhila. Without being either an auditor or an accountant, I wonder what is worth such an antagonism on the part of the Government. Why such violence, such brutality towards a profession that does its job and accounts for the financial security of companies? Two topics need to be discussed. The first relates to the European audit threshold. While I am opposed to any overtransposition, like many of our colleagues, I am not against adopting it to a turnover of 2 million to 8 million. On this point, I am not questioning the objective. On the other hand, I question the method, which was unheard of brutality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u255	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u256	From one day to the next, you ask a profession, which is legally carrying out its mission, to abandon its mandates, while files are under way. This brutality is unheard of and one can really wonder why you are doing it. We can really ask ourselves why. You should plan for a transition phase. In particular, you could have drawn inspiration from Mr de Cambourg's very good report, which makes a very reasonable proposal. The second element is quite surprising: what about the rules applying between €8 million and €48 million in turnover, the threshold at which the appointment of an auditor is mandatory – leading companies that can be audited but not the others? In the current state of the text, many companies could escape audit: 50% of the companies currently audited could no longer be audited. While, rightly speaking, there is a demand for greater financial transparency, you are proposing to reduce it, whereas these are not small groups. You forget that financial transparency guarantees the safety of consumers, employees, and shareholders. You're taking a considerable risk. You have become aware of this because the profession and the Members of Parliament have drawn your attention to this point. Amendments have therefore been tabled, in particular Amendment No 1239 by Cendra Motin, which provides for the possibility for the auditors of a leading company to audit subsidiaries according to certain criteria – balance sheet, number of employees, turnover – which will be specified by decree: but the provisions relating to auditors are traditionally included in the law. I am astonished by the vagueness of this point. I understand that this reform will cost companies less, but there are many areas where burdens can be reduced. For example, you could reduce production taxes, but you don't. I really ask you to reconsider your position, to clarify the rules that apply between €8 million and €48 million in turnover, and to give this profession a reasonable time to adapt – that is the least we can do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u257	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u258	Article 9 provides for the raising of the thresholds for the legal certification of accounts. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement endorses the transitional measures adopted in the special committee on new reading, which allow for a smooth follow-up to this recovery. I am thinking in particular of the postponement of the application of the increase in the thresholds for the appointment of an External Auditor for overseas companies until 1 January 2022; the entry into force of the article in the first financial year ended after the publication of the decree setting the thresholds; the exemption from the appointment of an auditor for companies not exceeding two of the three thresholds defined by decree where the functions of that auditor expire after the deliberations of the general meeting or the competent body acting on the accounts for the sixth financial year. Attentive to the economic situation of small businesses, the MODEM and related groups consider that the provisions of this article are such as to remove the constraints imposed on them. Moreover, since the French thresholds for the legal certification of accounts are below the thresholds required by European law, their increase contributes to a reduction in the burden on small businesses estimated at around EUR 600 million. As all the measures are accompanied over time, the MODEM and related groups support them and endorse this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u259	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u260	Article 9 provides for raising the thresholds for the legal certification of accounts by an auditor to bring them into line with European thresholds. Not only will this article affect the profession of auditors, but it also has serious consequences for the French economy. It seems to me essential to recall the role of the auditor and that of the accountant, because these two professions are often confused. Yet the stakes are completely different and in no way interchangeable. The essential task of the accountant is to prepare and present accounts, with an advisory dimension. The duties of the auditor are different or even complementary: to certify financial information, to reveal criminal facts, to prevent the risk of business failures. The auditor is under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and the accountant under that of the Ministry of Economy: this nuance, which is not neutral, reveals the very different nature of the missions. In this respect, we can regret the absence of the seal guard in the bench. Under the previous legislature, during the debate on the Macron Act, Ms.Taubira had come to a sitting when the subject of the auditors had been discussed. The auditor is a trusted third party whose role, far from being incidental, is even decisive: it protects minority shareholders and reassures third parties, in particular bankers; it is a guarantor of corporate finances; it secures and provides a guarantee during a company transfer. The independent judgment of the 13500 auditors is a real assurance for our economy. So why this reform? To align with the thresholds set by a European directive. However, I would like to stress the diversity of the economic fabric of the Member States, which justifies a specific approach to each situation. What will be the consequences of your reform? First, an increased risk of insecurity and economic crime; Then, a weakening of our SMEs; Finally, the concentration of the audit market for the benefit of the largest firms. Financial security is too important to be neglected. I will give some examples of European countries that have made opposite choices to the one you are advocating. In Sweden, while the audit requirement for small entities was abolished in 2010, as of December 2017, a supervisory body recommended that it be reinstated. In 2017, Italy lowered the thresholds in order to reduce risks for businesses: the number of entities audited increased by 175,000. As for Germany, which is often cited, it is a perfect counter-example, since the thresholds there exceed European standards, which is due to the difference in economic fabric. I have three questions for you, minister. The first concerns the situation of groups and the need to take into account their complexity. It is imperative not to leave the subsidiaries in the shadows. Groups and flows between parent companies and girls deserve special consideration. Are you in favour of audit by an auditor in group subsidiaries, owned directly or indirectly and making a significant contribution to the group's business? The second question relates to the time limit for the application of section 9, which is essential to enable the profession to bounce, rebuild and re-stick. Indeed, the provision adopted in a special committee has immediate consequences. Thus, the terms of reference of the auditors that expire at the end of the financial years ended 31 December 2018 for companies below the thresholds will end within a few days. Worse, the measure is retroactive, since it allows all companies that have not held their general meeting not to appoint auditors. The lack of concomitance between raising thresholds and possible rebound measures is a cutoff and the prelude to a major social plan – 10,000 jobs and 650 million euros of activity are at risk. So, Madam Secretary of State, are you ready to spread the application of Article 9 over time to help the profession bounce? Finally, my third question concerns the injury resulting from this brutal measure. In its opinion, the Council of State refers to the possibility of compensation by the State for serious and special damage, which may result, for some professionals, from the measure presented, on the basis of liability without fault as a result of the laws. In fact, you did not rule out this hypothesis in a special committee. Can you clarify the state's intentions in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u261	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u262	As the National Board of Auditors recalled this week, we have been working for more than a year now – Government, parliamentarians, professionals – to carry out together a great transformation of the profession. This transformation is no surprise: the European Accounting Directive, which sets thresholds for the audit of auditors, dates from 2013. In 2014 and 2016, amendments related to this Directive have already been adopted. Today, we want French companies to fight on equal terms with their European competitors. So yes, the fabric of French companies is mostly composed of SMEs and TPEs, as is that of Austria or Italy. But today, our SMEs do not have the same obligations, they have costs that others do not have, while they are well managed as well. It was for them that we wanted to simplify first, then harmonise the conditions of compulsory intervention of the auditors. The decision we make to give our businesses, especially our SMEs, the same opportunities as others at European level, we know that it has far-reaching consequences for the auditors. That is why, for the past year, we have been working with the profession, represented by the Compagnie nationale and by the regional auditors, whose tenacity, combativity and above all the constructive spirit, which has enabled us to draw up concrete accompanying measures together. In this spirit, we have taken up many proposals from a qualified person, Mr de Cambourg, whose analysis and proposals, submitted nine months ago, I welcome to invent a new mission, optional, of course, for the auditors: the legal audit of small businesses. It's a new field to explore for the profession. She has to take care of it and she can count on her guardianship ministry to accompany her in order to make it a success. Of course, this new offer alone will not solve all the problems posed by the disappearance of several hundred mandates in the next three years – we are aware of this. That is why we have opened the bridge between the profession of auditor and the profession of accountant. If they are different, these two professions are nevertheless cousins in terms of the skills they require. We have also worked on new certificates in areas such as cybersecurity or corporate social responsibility, where the expertise and expertise of auditors will be useful to companies of all sizes. Other developments will be possible. An experiment is under way in my region to examine the complementarity of auditors and regional chambers of accounts in the audit of local authorities and local public institutions. I am confident that this will soon lead to new opportunities for the auditors. We have heard the warnings of the profession about the subsidiaries of the groups and about the particular case of the ultramarine territories. I will submit you adjustments that will allow them to be taken into account. I would also suggest that you pay particular attention to the evolution of the profession and the effects of the reform on firms throughout the territory through a report and a working group in the Committee on Finance, as I suggested to my colleagues, Charles de Courson and Véronique Louwagie in a special committee. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my full appreciation for an unknown profession but whose usefulness is beyond doubt. I assure the auditors that they will be able to count on many parliamentarians and the Government to accompany them in this transition period. The voluntary nature of the statutory audit mission of small businesses will change their approach to businesses, not their usefulness.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u263	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u264	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] If I am not mistaken, we still have about 590 amendments to consider. If we continue at the same pace, I do not see us voting on the bill until three in the morning, which I do not think is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u265	Is this a joke? We spent hours listening to the general discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u266	I understand that it makes you react, ladies and gentlemen, but let me finish. Whatever the reason, I do not think it is reasonable for an assembly to vote at three o'clock in the morning. I would also like to ask you to refer to the letter sent to us by President Ferrand recently, in which he addresses the issue of the night sittings, which, in my opinion, are neither very productive nor very positive for the National Assembly and the image it refers to. Of course, it is not a minority group that can make a difference, but I am telling you the way I think it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u267	You're right to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u268	The increase in the thresholds for the certification of accounts provided for in Article 9 is based on a study by the General Inspectorate of Finance, which considers that this certification is very costly for small businesses and therefore suggests that it should be done without it. However, many arguments show that this is a good misconception. First, the IGF study was challenged by economists, notably Laurent Benzoni, who explained in a forum published in Le Monde: "Certified SMEs undergo 40% less collective proceedings and go twice as far in liquidation as the average of SMEs. They are experiencing higher growth, shorter settlement times and better cash flow. A remarkable phenomenon, the positive profit gap for certified SMEs is all the more important since they are small! These findings should lead to the proposal to extend the control obligation, not to restrict it. » Second, the lack of certification can reduce confidence in small businesses and weaken them in the face of banks, especially when they seek financing. It can also increase the risk of small-scale abuse of social property, tax evasion, black-out work, money laundering, etc. This risk of increased opacity is mentioned in a recent article in the Dalloz. There is also the economic argument, put forward by several colleagues: 3,500 to 10,000 jobs would be threatened according to the auditors' unions. In my view, that is not the main argument, but it must be taken into account. Finally, it is paradoxical, for a majority who pursue the thresholds when it comes to social thresholds, to introduce suddenly a threshold that can prove to be formidable. Indeed, it is often much heavier for a company to keep accounts in order than to meet certain social thresholds. The effect could therefore be quite pernicious. I hope that all these reasons will lead you back to Article 9 during the debate. It has – I have tried to show you – much more defects than benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u269	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u270	I am speaking at this stage, which will allow me to be faster when we consider the amendments. Mr. Coquerel is right. The problem is that it is a tote law. Therefore, whenever an article is discussed, a drawer is opened and a debate is initiated. That is a great disadvantage of this law. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance arrives at an opportune time in the Chamber to receive this compliment...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u271	Thank you, Mr. Fasquelle!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u272	You explain to us, Mrs. Motin, that the profession has cooperated. I'm having a lot of fun. When I hear you say this, the image that comes to mind is that of a condemned person who is led to the guillotine; We cut off his head but, since he didn't fight, he didn't protest, we said, "Great! He cooperated! In reality, the profession is standing up against your proposals, rightly. On the other hand, I understand less and less the consistency of your bill. Yesterday, about Paris airports, you explained that the state must now act through regulation, directly or indirectly. In this case, however, it is precisely a matter of regulation, by accountants and auditors; They are the ones who are actually verifying the application of the rules on the ground. So few mistakes are made in France, especially in tax matters, if there is little fraud – a situation that many countries are making – it is thanks to the work of accountants and auditors. To exclude auditors is to deprive oneself of a watchful look. Errors that are being corrected today will no longer be corrected tomorrow; cases of fraud that are being avoided today may not be so tomorrow. Nor should we forget the issue of early warning, since the bill also deals with collective proceedings. In France, we are proud to intervene very early, as soon as possible. But the role of the auditors is precisely to sound the alarm, as others have said very well before me. There is therefore no shortage of arguments. I would add that your measure will have a very brutal effect, as Éric Woerth pointed out: 70% of the mandates will be removed. By adopting section 9, you will remove 10,000 jobs from a feather line. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I will ask you four very specific questions, which overlap or complement those of Eric Woerth and Véronique Louwagie. Do you agree, yes or no, to consider subsidiaries, particularly indirect subsidiaries? There was a debate on this. Perhaps you could send a positive sign to the profession on this point. We have tabled amendments to postpone the date of entry into force of Article 9. Are you ready to accept them, to avoid the brutality I mentioned? We have had this debate in a special committee and we will discuss it again when we consider the amendments. Véronique Louwagie spoke very well about it. You will probably tell us that the mandates will continue over time. In any case, make a gesture on the date of entry into force! What about the ultramarine territories? Make a gesture there too; Get out of the completely blocked position that was yours in special commission. Finally, will the profession be compensated, as others have been in the past? This was particularly the case for the confessed parties, when they lost their monopoly of intervention in the Court of Appeal. If you can answer these four questions, we will save time when we consider the amendments. I hope you'll take a benevolent look at some of them. You would at last listen to the profession, as Mrs Motin rightly wished.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u273	Mrs Olivia Gregoire, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u274	I would like to respond to the comments of Mr Coquerel and Mr Fasquelle, as well as to those of Mr Laqhila, whose expertise and position I know on the subject. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] I'm sensitive to words, and semantics is important. Let's keep it right: despite our disagreements, I'm not sure that the terms "striker" and "guillot" are welcome, especially in the current context. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You will have noticed that I am not very much involved in the debate, but I wanted to give you my opinion on this. I didn't speak for the day. I would like to convey to you my sentiment as chairman of the special committee. Of course, we do not agree, but we can avoid terms such as triggers and guillotines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u275	Even about pesticides, we didn't use them...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u276	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u277	The thought police are fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u278	As far as the rules are concerned, Mr Coquerel, we have had the honour and the pleasure – I say it frankly – of listening, during the general discussion, to an intervention by your group chairman, who broke records – I believe that your group has about a quarter of an hour of speaking time left... It was captivating, and many of us were interested in what he said. So if we are in this Chamber at eighteen o'clock on a Friday in March, certainly not without pleasure, we cannot say that this is because of the majority group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u279	Yes, it is a problem of organizing debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u280	If you allow me, I'll finish my remarks. For your information, Mr. Coquerel, Mr. Fasquelle, the groups La France insoumé and Les Républicaines still have 22% of their respective speaking time. If we all pursue the same objective, namely to vote the law in correct conditions, we must concentrate our interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u281	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u282	Can you listen to the chairman of the special commission?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u283	You can say no, but unfortunately this is the rule in the context of scheduled legislative time. I see you're going to make a point of order, Mr. Coquerel. Don't worry, I'll be quiet soon. In the meantime, if you don't mind, I'd like to finish my remarks. In this case, we are talking about regulation, and we are talking about overtransposition. I am therefore astonished by the position of the group Les Républicains, which often wishes to "discurtranspose". In addition, I invite you to pay attention to the Government's amendments. The report referred to new missions for the auditors, and an effort had been made with regard to the DOM-TOMs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] With regard to speeches, I suggest a rule, which we have begun to apply: let us express our views in the preliminary discussion on each article, and then try to speed up the pace when we consider the amendments. If necessary, we will spend the time it takes – for my greatest happiness, because I love this text – and we will have breakfast together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u284	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u285	It concerns the proper organization of our debates. I cannot let you say that, Madam Chairman of the Special Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u286	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u287	It's still amazing! As long as we abide by the rules, what should we restrict our statements in the name of?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u288	She never asked for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u289	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u290	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You noted that we still had 22% of our initial speaking time. We'll use them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u291	But your speaking time is fixed by the scheduled legislative time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u292	Only Mr Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u293	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Basically, you blame others for what many of you are doing right now... It can last a long time if you continue. Can you listen to me?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u294	You're wasting your group's speaking time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u295	No, the points of order are not counted as speaking time! You will notice that our group does not produce...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u296	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u297	... a lot of amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u298	But a lot of words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u299	Yes, words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u300	We are producing amendments which we consider necessary. We don't make any obstructions. If we are there, and more so, on a far-reaching law, as Daniel Fasquelle pointed out, this is due to the agenda and the organisation of the debates, which are the responsibility of the majority. So don't try to put the problem on the backs of minority groups in this assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u301	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u302	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u303	I ask for a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u304	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u305	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u306	The meeting was resumed. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u307	It is a pity that the chairman of the special committee is no longer in the Chamber. I would point out to him that we must not go too far. The police of thought and especially of language, this is beginning to do well. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, I used an image, which I claim: you're going to behead a profession, removing 70% of its mandates. In our Chamber, we can still speak in an imaginative way. If the metaphors are sometimes a little strong, they at least make it clear. Allow Members of Parliament their freedom of speech. That's about all they have left! The majority are giving us lessons by saying we're wasting time? It is because the special committee has taken out an amendment on plant protection products that this afternoon we lost more than two hours this afternoon. Of course, the debate was not useless, but do not blame us, or other opposition groups, for prolonging the discussion, when you reopened a dossier which the special committee had closed. Finally, when we introduce a bill that deals with so many issues, we don't start the discussion on Wednesday afternoon and finish it on Friday night!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u308	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u309	You know very well that it will extend beyond that, especially if it has been decided to use the scheduled legislative time procedure. A different agenda was needed: if the discussion had started on Tuesday, we could have finished it on Friday; We could also start it this week and finish it next week. [[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] While you have put us in a stalemate, you are attacking opposition groups to blame them, but the only ones responsible for this situation are the Government and the majority group, since they are the ones who control the Assembly's agenda. Please stop blaming us for the length of the debates or their organization! We don't control either.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u310	I would like to point out that the Conference of Presidents has provided for a scheduled legislative time of 20 hours for this text, which allows each group to manage its speaking time for the number of sittings set. I would like to take this opportunity to indicate the remaining speaking time for each group; the LaREM group has two hours and twenty-eight minutes; the LR group, 40 minutes; the thirty-four minute MODEM group; the IUD-Agir group of one hour and fourteen minutes; the SOC group of one hour and two minutes; the nineteen-minute FI group; the fifty-four-minute GDR group; the twenty-two-minute LT group; Members who are not registered for one minute and eleven seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u311	I have before me five amendments, Nos 20, 164, 576, 685 and 864, to delete Article 9. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u312	Most of the arguments were presented during the preliminary discussion. We propose to delete the article for two reasons. Firstly, in Sweden, Denmark and Italy, the increase in the thresholds for legal certification of accounts eroded the tax base and increased fraud, which led these states to reverse their decision. Secondly, since the amount of the retraction of the audit corresponds roughly to the budget of the State, the measure poses a considerable risk to the State in order to achieve a very modest economy for each undertaking. Finally, the low failure rate of French companies is probably due to their support. All these reasons show that the proposed simplification will be inopportunely costly. Mr. Potier and I have argued, in a forum, for an ambitious reform of the missions of the auditors. The latter could analyse the results of enterprises under the prism of their social responsibility, with a view to encouraging the Government to develop tax and social mechanisms that favour the virtuous. Indeed, social contributions could vary according to the quality of their economic, social and environmental policies of enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u313	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 164.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u314	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u315	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 576.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u316	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u317	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support Amendment No. 685.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u318	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u319	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 864.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u320	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u321	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u322	He's unfavorable. We have been working on the text for months, especially on this article. We consulted with the professionals in the figure, as well as with employers' and trade union organisations: this is the whole economic world that we have heard on the subject of the CACs, the auditors. I am also pleased that, between our initial intention and the text we are debating, there has been some striking progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u323	Little advances!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u324	Some are significant. Recognize the parliamentary work carried out with the support of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u325	I myself have tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u326	For the legal audit, we drew heavily on the Cambourg report. Some improvements will allow auditors to adapt in the coming months and years. For the CACs, everything won't stop tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Contracts will continue to live. Changes will occur during the adjustment period, between three and six years. In addition, the ACCs will have new opportunities to practice their profession. The bill will continue to evolve, and as of today, we are sensitive to certain arguments. We will therefore support Mr Laqhila's amendment on the small entity cluster, which is a good idea. Other Members have addressed the issue of subsidiaries. The most operational response must be found for an accountant to certify the accounts of those who make a significant contribution to the group's activity. To designate the most contributory, it is better to consider not a percentage, but an amount. For example, when a company, for a balance sheet of 4 million, has a turnover of 8 million and employs 50 employees, the figures of 2 million, 4 million and 25 employees could be used, respectively. It would be more operational than to consolidate all the accounts of the parent company and then to seek, by classifying the subsidiaries, the one that contributes the most to it. Clearly, this research will force us to debate with the profession. We can set guidelines and then leave it to the Government to find with it, within the limits we want, the level to be chosen. Finally, on several occasions, Members have been concerned about the overseas environment. We listen to you, we hear you. We will make you a proposal by way of amendment. Some may not find it satisfactory. We have seen the difficulties and the need to respond to them. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Far from approaching the text in a fixed manner, we have evolved it with the profession and through parliamentary debate. That is why I hope that we will pursue him calmly, avoiding clashes. The subject is of importance; Let's try to treat him in the right way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u328	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u329	It's a pleasure to find you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u330	Happiness shared!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u331	... after going to launch this morning, in Grenoble, the nano 2022 plan, essential to economic development and innovation, which we discussed at length yesterday. As far as the auditors are concerned, one of the merits of the majority is consistency, I repeat. We want to combat the overtransposition of European directives and alleviate the financial burden on too many SMEs. But, of course, every time one removes an obligation from some, those who are not affected by such relief are not satisfied, and those who will benefit from it are not heard. Let us remember the rule of law. One of the requirements of a European directive is the obligation to use an auditor for companies with a turnover of more than EUR 8 million. In France, the rule applies, depending on the nature of the society, from 2 million to 3 million, which is not justified. One can always, especially on the eve of a European election, incriminate Brussels, which would set too many standards and rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u332	We didn't say anything like that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u333	In this case, we can only attack ourselves, because we have overtransposed, which have established too strict rules. Do they have a cost to SMEs? Yes: it is on average 5550 euros per year, which is not negligible. In total, all mandates between 2 million and 3 million and the 8 million set by the European Directive represent 700 million euros of financial burden for SMEs. By comparison, the proposed relief will be greater than that for participation interest. So it's not a pecadille. This 700 million has a heavy impact on the finances of SMEs. I know your arguments: the certification of accounts, you will tell me, protects SMEs and reduces the number of failures. We wanted to check this point with the Bank of France: it is not proven. You will add that the obligation to use auditors protects businesses taxably. DGFIP – the Directorate-General for Public Finance – does not confirm this analysis. In these circumstances, why impose additional burdens on SMEs_700 million, due to the overtransposition of a directive? Having said that – Mrs Louwagie is right to insist on this – we must not act brutally. As your excellent rapporteur rightly said, we must be aware of the work done! I would like to hear everything in this House, but there are limits! Since our analysis has led us to see an overtransposition, we propose to "de-transpose" and to align ourselves with the common European rule. We are told that it was dangerous, which leads us to ask for a report from the financial inspectorate. The auditors then tell us that the report was technocratic and that they did not recognise themselves in its conclusions, which were considered far too brutal. I could very well have said that this report was worth what it was worth, but that it was honest and had to be applied. That was not the case: I have received at length, on several occasions, the auditors, and proposed that a second report be prepared, with which they would be associated. This has led to the remarkable work of Mr de Cambourg – I would like to pay tribute to him – who has taken time and whose proposals we are taking up almost all of them. Let me recall some of them, which are not negligible, far from it: a simplified audit mission for small businesses and an audit mission for small groups; the establishment of a bridge offering the possibility for holders of the certificate of fitness for the functions of auditor to register with the order of accountants; development of accounting expertise for small audit firms; recognition of the status of corporate accountant; setting fees related to the success of the missions carried out; possibility of managing debts and debt payments on behalf of their clients; recognition of an implicit mandate to intervene with the tax administration. We have added these very concrete proposals to the law to take account of the expectations and concerns of accountants. I also want to say this in my former elected capacity, leaving for a moment my dress as Minister of Economy and Finance: I know very well that many firms are worried, especially among the small ones, who wonder how they will survive, what mandates they will be able to obtain, what opportunities for development will be open to them. We have tried to respond as much as possible to their expectations and concerns. I'm told that's not enough; I remain open to proposals for improvement. As Denis Sommer rightly said, the bill for the professions of auditors and accountants will contain a number of proposals. You also asked me about the overseas. I know well enough the overseas to see that the firms operating there are fragile and risk a pure and simple disappearance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u334	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u335	...what I obviously wish to avoid. To this end, I propose that the application of the reform of thresholds in the overseas departments be postponed to 1 January 2021. If a parliamentary initiative were to do so, I would be very happy to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u336	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u337	It's a little bit of a move!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u338	The proposal for an audit mission for small groups raises concerns with regard to the criterion of direct or indirect ownership of subsidiaries. I heard them, which led me to receive the president of the Order of Accountants to discuss them with him. I am also prepared to consider favourably all the amendments that will make it possible to secure things. Finally, as I recall, the Minister of Public Affairs and Public Accounts has announced that auditors would be given other functions, such as examining tax compliance, which will give them real prospects for developing and transforming their business. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the words of the rapporteur, the Government wanted to alleviate an unjustified financial burden on SMEs, but it did so without any brutality. The date of 1 January 2019 has always been clear and transparent. The Government had heard the requests of the auditors and was ready to hear them more on a number of issues. This is how we can intelligently transform our country, keeping the general direction but taking into account concerns and providing concrete answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u339	I put to the vote the deletion amendments Nos 20, 164, 576, 685 and 864.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u340	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 41 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 12 Against 29
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u341	I have before me two amendments, No 606 corrected and 605 corrected, which can be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u342	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u343	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor in support of Amendment No 116.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u344	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u345	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1161.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u346	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u347	I call Mr Laqhila to support Amendment No. 996.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u348	It's worth calling. The French economic fabric is essentially composed of TPEs and SMEs, which must be taken into account in the organisation of the institutions related to the profession of auditor – as I mentioned earlier, referring to the CNCC, the Compagnie nationale des comptables. I therefore propose the creation, within this body, of a department dedicated to small businesses, as there is one for PIEs, public interest entities. Perhaps I will be opposed, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, to the fact that this provision is of a regulatory nature, but I would like to have your opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u349	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u350	Your idea seems interesting to me, but as you yourself acknowledge, this provision is of a regulatory nature. Perhaps you will withdraw your amendment, but I think we need to help you make this proposal a reality, even if it falls under the responsibility of the National Board of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u351	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u352	The idea is indeed interesting but falls within the regulatory field. I therefore propose, Mr Laqhila, that we work together to implement this proposal and ask you to withdraw this appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u353	Do you withdraw your amendment, Mr. Laqhila?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u354	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u355	I have before me two amendments, Nos 193 and 194, which can be presented together. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u356	They're being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u357	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1239, 1048, 456 and 543, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 1239 is the subject of a sub-amendment No 1265. Amendments Nos 456 and 543 are identical. Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1239.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u358	It relates to the appointment of an auditor in the significant subsidiaries of small groups. We have heard the concern of the professionals, who rightly point out the risk that legal and financial arrangements will avoid controls. Therefore, this amendment aims to maintain the rule of taking into account two of three criteria – relating to balance sheet, turnover and number of employees – in order to determine whether a subsidiary is "significant"; an order will have to be made by the Minister of Economy and Finance to determine the thresholds. The amendment also supports one of your requests, Mrs Louwagie, as it seeks to clarify that these companies may be "controlled directly or indirectly" by the umbrella company. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u359	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u360	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u361	The profession has raised this issue a lot, and we have heard it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u362	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 1265.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u363	We are in favour of this amendment, provided it is under-amended. As I explained earlier, it seems to us that taking into account a percentage of the consolidated balance sheet of the parent company is rather complicated to implement. This is why we propose to use simple criteria: the balance sheet total, the amount of turnover excluding taxes and the average number of employees employed during the year. This is, of course, the hypothesis that we are below the European thresholds. This provision will allow us to designate significant subsidiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u364	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1048.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u365	Its purpose is to create a second set of criteria for maintaining the office in subsidiaries of small groups: the total turnover at the group level and the average number of employees in all the companies referred to in paragraph 38. I would point out that the amendment tabled by Mrs Motin is also very good for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u366	I call Mr Claude de Ganay to support Amendment No. 456.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u367	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u368	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 543.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u369	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u370	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u371	I am in favour of Mrs Motin's amendment, and therefore against the other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u372	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u373	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u374	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u375	I would like to welcome this progress which, although not considerable, was expected by the profession. The Republican Group will therefore vote in favour of Mrs Motin's amendment, which has been subamended by our rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u377	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 4 and 968. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u378	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u379	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 968.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u380	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u381	I have before me two amendments, Nos 423 and 723, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to support Amendment No. 423.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u382	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u383	Is Amendment No 723 defended, Mrs Louwagie?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u384	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u385	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 224 and 725. Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 224, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u386	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u387	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 725.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u388	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u389	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 463.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u390	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u391	I have before me three amendments, Nos 222, 719 and 1053, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 222 and 719 are identical. The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 222.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u392	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u393	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 719.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u394	If you allow me, Mr President, I will defend Amendment No 1053 at the same time. I would like to draw your attention, Mr Minister, to the impact of the planned deadlines and to the brutality of the situation which is thus made to the auditors, hence the amendments which are intended to give the profession time to carry out the transformation imposed on them. The purpose of both these amendments and No 862 is to give them more time. What guidance can you give us, minister, to reassure and help the profession?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u395	Amendment No 1053 has just been defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the three amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u396	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u397	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u398	It is also unfavourable. I would like to reiterate that we do not take anyone by surprise: we have always indicated that the date chosen would be January 1, 2019. Secondly, in order for the law to come into force, Mrs Louwagie, it must be promulgated and the implementing decrees made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u399	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 96, 424 and 862. The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u400	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u401	Is Amendment No 424 being defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u402	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u403	Finally, what about Amendment No 862, Mrs Louwagie?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u404	Minister, I asked the Secretary of State three questions. One related to the advice of the Council of State concerning compensation by the State for serious and special damage which may result, for some professionals, from the measure presented on the basis of liability without fault as a result of the laws. In the Law Commission, the Secretary of State had not ruled out this hypothesis. Can you clarify the state's intentions in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u405	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u406	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u407	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u408	Each auditor who feels he or she is injured will be able to refer the matter to the Administrative Court, which will assess whether there is an abnormal and special injury. And there will be compensation if the administrative judge considers that there is such an injury. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u409	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u410	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1055, 589, 223 and 720, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 589 is the subject of two sub-amendments Nos 1315 and 1316. Amendments Nos 223 and 720 are identical. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1055.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u411	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u412	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 589.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u413	It aims to take into account the very particular case of ultramarine territories. Again, it was the profession that alerted us. We have heard it and I therefore propose that, in these very specific territories, which need special attention, we set the threshold increase as of 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u414	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support sub-amendments Nos. 1315 and 1316, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u415	I am in favour of Amendment No 589, provided that my two sub-amendments are adopted. Sub-amendment No 1315 is drafting since it is intended to supplement the references in the amendment so that it includes joint-stock companies, simplified joint-stock companies and limited liability companies. As regards sub-amendment No 1316, concerning the overseas sector, it is proposed that the proposed deadline be reduced to 1 January 2021 instead of 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u416	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 223.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u417	We once again call for the special situation of the ultramarine territories to be taken into account. For my part, I would prefer that they could derogate from the law. You propose to set the deadline at 2021, which in our view is a mistake. We will, however, eventually agree with this position so that the TOMs can enjoy a minimum of time. However, I repeat, we would have liked them to be completely excluded from the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u418	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 720.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u419	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u420	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u421	I am in favour of Amendment No 589, as I said, provided that the two sub-amendments to it are adopted. I am therefore against the other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u422	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u423	I am in favour of Amendment No 589 and thank Mrs Motin for presenting it. If adopted, the reform will apply only to the overseas departments on 1 January 2021. This is really a way of taking into account the auditors who perform them. On the other hand, excluding the DOMs from the scheme, as Mr Fasquelle proposes, would create a breach of equality before the law, which is why his proposal is not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u424	However, this would not be the first time that the Overseas Territories have benefited from a separate scheme! Your argument doesn't hold!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u425	I therefore express a favourable opinion on Mrs Motin's amendment as sub-amended by the rapporteur, and an unfavourable opinion on the other amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u426	I call Mr Claude de Ganay to support Amendment No. 1106.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u427	Instead of immediately implementing the reform proposed by the Government, it was intended to replace a six-year term of office, a mandatory period reduced to three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u428	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 657.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u429	Accuracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u430	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 684.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u431	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u432	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 210.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u433	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u434	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1260.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u435	It is intended to clarify that the reform will apply on 1 January 2019, in accordance with what has always been indicated, which means that the date of 31 December 2018 should be introduced in the paragraph relating to the entry into force provisions of Article 9. As I reminded Mrs Louwagie earlier, this provision will then have to be the subject of an implementing decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u436	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u437	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u438	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u439	I have heard what you said, minister, but I regret this amendment: it has almost a retroactive effect since it applies from 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u440	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u441	By leaving another 12 months with the end of the financial years to 31 December 2019, both would have had time to bounce back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u442	I do not understand the Government's obstinacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u443	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor to support Amendment No. 695.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u444	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u445	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No 195.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u446	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u447	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u448	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u449	It's so rare!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u450	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u451	Mr Lurton, you know my volunteer, especially when the amendments come from the Saint-Malo – in this case, it comes from the Touquet. I would just point out that this is an important amendment since it supplements the list of professionals who can participate in multi-professional practice societies to include CACs. This significant new concession is intended to extend the scope of the CAC's activities. My opinion is also favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u452	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u453	I would like to thank you, Mr President, for being attentive to this amendment, which is a small further step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u454	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u455	In the same spirit as Boris Vallaud, I will take up the idea that the difference between a river and a marsh is the banks. It seems to me that the pre-installation courses, the auditors are part of those shores that have been installed to prevent the river of the economy from resembling a swamp. I only recall that a century ago, when modern accounting was invented, the auditor was the trusted third that allowed for new prosperity. We have to reinvent it today. We propose this in a report which advocates the application of the idea advocated by our colleague for the Socialist and related group: CSR – corporate social responsibility – which takes into account the commons of the company, the saving of resources and which allows to outline the accounting of the 21st century, which could, if necessary, allow to modulate the tax burden, particularly on small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u456	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 731.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u457	It is intended that a report will be submitted by the Government to the Parliament so that the implementation of the reform can be monitored in practice, both with regard to the legal audit of companies and to the situation of all firms that will experience this major transformation. The amendment introduces a sort of re-visit clause, a non-legal but moral clause, which will enable the real effects of the reform on the profession to be measured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u458	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u459	On the substance, I am very much in favour of the amendment, but I suggest you, Mrs Motin, withdraw your amendment so that it is rather incorporated into the article on the evaluation of the law and the monitoring of its implementation. I know that you have already tabled an amendment to this article, which is particularly welcome, since we have forgotten to provide for this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u460	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u461	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u462	Same opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u463	Mrs. Motin, what do you decide?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u464	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u465	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 1162.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u466	The opinion of the Council of State explicitly refers to the possibility of compensation by the State of Auditors for "serious and special damage which may result, for some professionals, from the measure presented, on the basis of faultless liability as a result of the laws". We believe that this possibility and its implications for public finances should be explored.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u467	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1045.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u468	It is intended to extend the missions of the auditors not only to certificates but also to the provision of other services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u469	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 154 and 794, to delete Article 9a DB. The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 154.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u470	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u471	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 794.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u472	Defended as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u473	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 592.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u474	I withdraw it because, in an interview with the Ministry of Justice, it was explained to me that the amendments to the initiative for the reorganization of the regional auditors' companies, included in article 9 bis F, were intended to better accompany their transformation, closer to the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u475	The committee maintained the Senate's deletion of Rule 12 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u476	Two speakers are inscribed on rule 13. Mrs Valérie Oppelt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u477	I am speaking on behalf of myself and Mrs. Stella Dupont. We are all aware here of the important role played by chambers of commerce and industry in supporting and catalysing the economic activity of companies in all our territories. The reform of the network has been designed in conjunction with the chambers and has been the subject of numerous consultations with CCIT and CCIR – the regional and territorial chambers of commerce and industry – as well as with CCI France, the trade unions and the public authorities. The idea is absolutely not to weaken the network but rather to strengthen it by enabling it to accompany companies. The 21st century presents them with new challenges: our KICs must be able to accompany them. They are essential to the meshing of our territories. At their request, new tools will be made available. I am thinking in particular of the possibility of extending IAB's fee-paying services to businesses and communities, or of recruiting under private law. Since the presentation of the report of the Assembly's joint information mission, of which Mrs Stella Dupont and I were the rapporteurs, we have been campaigning to make CCI France a real network leader. This element is essential for the effective design and deployment of public policies throughout our territory. This would only concern national interests. It would in no way deprive other KICs of their ability to be present or represent local interests. The mission of national representation provided by CCI France must respect the principle of subsidiarity. It will need to build on the expertise and expertise already existing in the network. Delegation agreements between CCI France and CCIRs will have to be signed in order to organise the steering by the network head. This will ensure the effective coverage of the action carried out by the whole network. Despite these advances, we are aware that the reform is not over. Many other topics will be addressed in the consular chamber network. These must be made accountable by signing the objective and performance contract, but also by modernising the representation of the CCIs in their network head, CCI France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u478	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u479	I want to underline the essential role of the chambers of commerce in all territories, and even more so in fragile territories. I do not need to look for an example far away: the CCI de Bastia is a major player in business support, animation, infrastructure and education; It therefore plays a considerable role. As you know, all chambers of commerce make a significant contribution to supporting entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, since this is the subject of the day. You know better than I do, the chambers feel very hard the reduction of their resources and the considerable scale of the levies. They have legitimate fears about their radiation, their activity and of course their personnel, who are like birds on their branch. The KICs in the driving regions will be able to compensate for their losses by selling services to businesses, but those in the regions with only SMEs and PETs, which will not have this type of resources, are all the more concerned. I don't have time to say much more, but I want, in any case, to assure the KICs, facilitators of all the territories, of my support and friendship.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u480	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 21, 332, 408 and 686, to delete Article 13. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u481	We all agree on the need to modernise and reorganise chambers of commerce and industry. They themselves are aware of this imperative, since they have begun, several years ago, an in-depth reform, particularly with regard to the question of regionalisation. The strategy adopted by the Government seems to us to be quite similar to that used with regard to social donors. First of all, it is motivated by a desire to disengage the State and to reduce public debt. Indeed, the KICs have been informed of a reduction of 400 million euros in their public resources by 2022, or 100 million per year. ITC representatives believe that this would result in the elimination of 2500 full-time equivalents, with a significant social cost. I will return this figure of 2500 FTEs to the figure we mentioned this morning when it comes to banning or authorizing the export of banned plant protection products to France. This cost is all the more complex to manage for the KICs as they self-insure for unemployment, which does not appear to have been anticipated by the Government. The report of the Senate on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2019 estimated the cost of redundancies made necessary by this decrease in resources at EUR 100 000 per FTE, an additional charge of EUR 200 million for the network of KICs. Thus, as it has done by putting up with the decline of the APLs – the personalized subsidies to housing – by the social donors, the Government chosen to place the CCIs in a critical financial situation, which will make their reorganization inevitable. It is not possible for KICs to manage such a reorganization while reducing their workforce and developing a new market offer. For these reasons, we are not in favour of these clear cuts. On the other hand, we are in favour of a reform of the KICs – I do not repeat what Mr Dominique Potier said about the meaning of the reforms we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u482	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 332.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u483	It is also an amendment to delete...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u484	We missed you, Mr. Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u485	Welcome, Mr. Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u486	The Seine-Saint-Denis, you see, is an unpredictable department, in which you sometimes have to react urgently to difficult situations... That's what I've had to do since this morning, but I'm back for the whole night. I do not repeat what Mr Boris Vallaud said. However, because I know her well, I want to say how useful my department's Chamber of Commerce is, how well it is for companies, how much it provides them with services, how much it helps start-ups to consolidate and others to find new opportunities. It seemed to me that, since the first reading of this bill – tabled in the Assembly last June, if my memory is good – there had been enough events in the country so that the determined will of the Government and the President of the Republic to ignore the intermediate bodies had been long-lived. I thought that the intermediate bodies would be restored to their place in the dialogue and social organization of our country, whether they are trade unions, representatives of corporations or chambers of commerce and industry, which are, by definition, useful intermediate bodies in the economic field. I had thought that the mea culpa of the executive regarding the intermediate bodies would, for the PACTE bill, result in a step backwards in terms of the willingness to attack the chambers of commerce. This is not the case; I'm sorry. That is why we have tabled an amendment to delete Article 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u487	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 408.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u488	We know the usefulness of the remarkable network of chambers of commerce, which has the advantage of being present throughout the country. This network, which helps entrepreneurs when they start businesses and supports them at all stages of their development, is likely to be seriously destabilised. One of our colleagues in Pas-de-Calais mentioned earlier the action of the regions, local authorities and development agencies in the territories. The KICs are precisely the partners of the intercommunities but also those of the development agencies that the intercommunities have created. Therefore, indirectly, when you destabilize the KICs, you also destabilize the supply that intercommunities and agencies that do not have a lot of resources are trying to put in place in rural areas. So be very careful. Whether you admit it or not, you are destabilising the KIC network: first bad blow, you are removing the formal centres of companies; another bad blow, you deprive them of 400 million euros of the revenue from the affected tax; the provision you are proposing is a third bad shot. You are going to set up a network that is certainly not perfect and needs to evolve, but you are proceeding too brutally and in too short a time. Stop, Minister, telling us the history of the merchant services that the CCIs will develop to bring in the money you no longer want to give them, because these services will find themselves in competition with those of their member companies; So this story doesn't make any sense. In addition, the KICs could then be charged with unfair competition. It is true that they could develop some market services, but it will not be the panacea, not the solution to all the financial problems you are going to cause them. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I wanted to warn you: the PACTE law is also a law to destabilise the CCIs, which puts them at serious risk, and it is quite a pity at a time when, on the contrary, they should be encouraged and accompanied. With this amendment and those who are going to follow, we are making an alarm call, hoping that you will hear it and agree at least to soften your provisions if you refuse to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u489	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 686.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u490	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u491	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u492	One of the arguments that has been developed several times in our debates is the weakening of the network. But this one is not new; The question of the balanced distribution throughout the territory of efficient CCIs has already arisen for some time, because of the very structure of the network, composed of local CCIs, departmental CCIs and regional CCIs, with a great diversity of organisation according to the regions and an approximate national steering – there is not really a network head, CCI France being in fact only the nice organizer of the dialogue between chambers of commerce and industry. We believe that a reorganisation of the network is absolutely essential. In the first place, CCI France will have the true leadership, recognized and accepted by the entire network; It will not be an autocratic or contemptuous leadership, but it will have the opportunity to negotiate with other KICs for the performance of missions of a national or even international nature. The role of CCI France will therefore be important. This reorganization also involves the regions as they – we can agree or disagree – have leadership in economic development. Is it normal for the regions and the CCIRs to agree on the coordination and joint implementation of public policies on economic development and business support? The answer is yes: it seems intelligent to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u493	The regions will do it instead of the state, and the trick is done!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u494	Conventioning with the regions also means that the CCIRs will be able to carry out different types of action on behalf of the regions, which means that they will provide them with the means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u495	All CCIs will be gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u496	There may also be co-piloting logics. I am thinking in particular of the regional development agencies, which exist in all regions, and of the industrial development programmes in the CCIRs. Indeed, the animation of public policies presupposes that they are conducted in dialogue, in a logic of co-development, not in ignorance. We have wasted a great deal of resources in recent years by acting separately or even in competition. At the same time, there is a strong statement by the CCIRs about their role in the international development of enterprises, within the framework of the one-stop shop developed with Business France. And then we stress the importance of equalization. Of course, you are right, there will be less resources – the old majority had shown us the way – but everyone must participate in the budgetary efforts. This requires rationalising certain means and also allowing the KICs to agree with the regions and the metropolises, and to become development agencies for the large intercommunalities, which again requires the allocation of resources. We are therefore rethinking the whole and putting in place a new model. This means reducing structural burdens, but this is what we are asking for everywhere, in companies and in our administrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u497	But we're not against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u498	Why not ask the KICs to take advantage of this new organization, with the aim of being as effective as possible throughout the country? I would point out that this equalization will be carried out under control. Does it work well today? If everything remained as it was, would rural KICs still have life insurance? Honestly, we know we don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u499	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u500	We need both strong and controlled equalization. This is why the Prefect will have the possibility, on the basis of the diagnosis he will draw up with the various partners, to decide whether there is a need to devote specific resources to a particular place – territories in arrears, where there are important restructuring industries for example. It is not just a matter of a few less means, but of the organization of a system being reviewed. Let's not tell a story: this development did not date back to 2017, it was also the result of the NOTRE law, which established a new territorial organization of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u501	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u502	But fortunately, there is some continuity in our public policies! The new system draws all the lessons from the situation of the network. I believe that the broad guidelines chosen and these new measures are a guarantee of the future for the consular network as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u503	No! You're demolishing the consular network!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u504	That is why the committee is against the deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u505	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u506	It is a beautiful reform, a fundamental reform of the functioning of public authorities as everyone demands and as no one usually does. We are doing it, and I fully agree with what the rapporteur has said on this point. We lead it with courage while giving it meaning. In the current state of our public finances, everyone is well aware of the need to reduce public spending and demand it out loud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u507	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u508	But as soon as we launch a real project to transform the French public tool, there is no one left: suddenly, everyone flies away, disappears and returns to their branch. The Government is proposing a real reform of the public authorities, a reform that is in keeping with the KICs' spirit while reinventing a future for them. For my part, I am very attached to the chambers of commerce and industry because I think that they play an important role, and above all that they are part of our history and that we must always be very careful when we touch on the history of France. The first was created in 1599 in Marseille, if my memory is good, then they developed; Then, after being abolished by the Le Chapelier Act of 1791 and restored in 1802 by Chaptal, under Bonaparte, they developed again under the First Empire – there are already twenty-two –, strengthened and then modified at the beginning of the 21st century. For the first time, we are reinventing the model of chambers of commerce and industry. At the bottom, three ways were possible. The first, a little dishonest and not very brave – so not so much in my character – would have been to let the CCIs go, slowly and quietly. This is exactly what Denis Sommer described. It would have reduced the amount of tax allocated to chambers of commerce by 10 million per annum, by 50 million per year. In the long run, according to the technique of the Ottoman strangler, they would have died suffocated without anyone seeing it. That's pretty much what was waiting for them. There was another possible path, very radical and one that was proposed to me, not totally meaningless: it was a question of linking the chambers of commerce and industry to the regions. After all, they have among their competences economic development and have the tools to do so: then let's merge the KICs and the regions. But after having discussed it at length with the chambers, I think that we were touching our history and their very culture, and that we would have embarked on a path without a way out that would have barred their identity from a cross. It was a bad idea. And then there is the path that we propose to choose: it consists of reinventing the CCIs from bottom to bottom. It is first of all a matter of reinventing their organisation by giving CCI France a steering role so that their operation is clearer, more transparent and more efficient. I thank its president, Pierre Goguet, for his involvement because it would not have been possible if, together with all the presidents of CCI, whom I saw at the beginning of the reform, now almost sixteen months ago, he had not fully and completely committed himself, as a courageous and lucid businessman, to this transformation. The second change is the clarification of missions. I explained to CCI France and all the KICs that their role should be precisely defined. They carry out three sets of tasks: supporting companies in their development and transmission – the KICs play a key role on this second point – accompanying companies for their exports, where their role is also particularly useful; training, because even if not all KICs do, many of them have small or large business schools under their authority, and their role in this area remains valuable. There is therefore a clarification around three main tasks: business support, export, training. The third change is that ITCs will now be financed by the sale of benefits rather than by a tax. This, of course, is structural change. They are told: "If the service you provide is useful, the companies will agree to pay for it, so you will finance yourself because there is no reason for the taxpayer to continue to finance you through an assigned tax. Again, I want to pay a strong tribute to the chambers of commerce and industry, their employees, and to the president of CCI France, who had the courage to take this reform with arms and bodies and said, "Let's go, banco, we're going to finance ourselves by the delivery of services that will be of better quality, rather than by an affected tax. I think it's a real model of transformation. In return, the text provides guarantees and elements of flexibility to chambers of commerce and industry. Without mentioning them all, I recall the most important: the gradual extinction of the status of ICC staff so as to allow for a more flexible, common-law recruitment. As a corollary, staff will have the opportunity to access unemployment insurance under ordinary law – this had never been the case for CCI staff – which will guarantee them security. This is a fundamental transformation. A final point was pointed out by Denis Sommer and responds to the remarks made by several Members: it concerns rural KICs. We must, of course, pay attention to it, and we have devoted a great deal of time to it. I was elected from a rural department and, even if it is far from being the most isolated, I see that it is infinitely more complicated for a CCI to develop services there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u509	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u510	We have therefore expected that the departments classified as ZRR – a rural revitalization area – at 70% will receive greater compensation, in order to protect rural KICs and to ensure that the transformation requested of them is not too fast or too difficult to achieve. [[Mr Denis Sommer, rapporteur, applauds]] I say again: it is in my opinion a model of successful public transformation, and it is in huge part due to the CCIs themselves, their staff and their presidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u511	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support Amendment No 490, on the understanding that only one minute and eleven seconds of speaking time are left for non-attached Members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u512	So I'm going to try to go very fast, Mr. President. The State wishes to gradually withdraw from the funding of the KICs, reducing their allocation by EUR 400 million by 2022. The financing of these structures will then be borne by taxes on businesses. While this measure favours KICs in economically dynamic regions, it penalises those in less attractive or more fragile regions. This is why KICs need to be able to set up an equalization system among themselves. It would also be necessary to make possible the union of one or more territorial KICs with a metropolitan KIC without this implying a total dissolution of the establishments concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u513	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u514	This does not happen often, Mrs Ménard, but in this case we think the same thing, because what you are proposing is already included in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u515	I don't think it's exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u516	Yes. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u517	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u518	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u519	Mrs Ménard, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u520	Although it still doesn't seem to me to be exactly the same thing, I'm removing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u521	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 59, 466, 851 and 997. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u522	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u523	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 466.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u524	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u525	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 851.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u526	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u527	I call Mr Laqhila to support Amendment No. 997.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u528	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u529	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 493.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u530	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u531	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 457.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u532	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u533	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 459.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u534	Accuracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u535	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 779.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u536	Article L. 711-17 of the Commercial Code omits to mention the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts, yet required to hold more than 50% of the capital and voting rights at the general meeting of consular higher education institutions, thus excluding them from the consular quorum of these institutions. This situation hinders the realization of the partnership logic desired by the Government. My amendment therefore proposes to amend this article of the Commercial Code by expressly inserting the Chambers of Crafts and Crafts, which would seem to me to correct a regrettable omission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u537	It is an amendment of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u538	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u539	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u540	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u541	We have worked extensively with CCI France and CMA France – Chamber of Crafts and Crafts of France – and at no time has this issue been raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u542	That is unfortunate and regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u543	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u544	I have only one wish: to be kind to Gilles Lurton. Unfortunately, CCI France did not mention this amendment to us. Our analysis, which I give you with caution, is that the CMAs do not currently offer directly graduate courses at the bachelor's or master's level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u545	They must offer professional licenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u546	This amendment is therefore not justified. I say this with caution because, once again, I readily acknowledge that this is one of the few provisions that I have not looked closely at. In any event, it seems to me that this is not in accordance with the rule of law in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u547	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u548	That is a shame, Minister, because you have been seized of it and it seems to me that you have all the information you need to take a decision on this matter. Too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u549	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 511.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u550	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u551	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 454.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u552	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u553	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 452.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u554	Accuracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u555	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 769, which deletes Rule 13a AB.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u556	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u557	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u558	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u559	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u560	I would like a few explanations to understand why we are looking back at the possibility of being a student-entrepreneur when we do not hold the bachelor's degree. In fact, there are courses which do not need to be held, but which allow students to take graduate courses thanks to which they can set up a company and want to benefit from the status of student-entrepreneur. If I understood that the Government and the rapporteur wanted to go back to that provision, they had to explain why.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u561	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u562	Although I am not a minister of universities, I am, like Mr. Fasquelle and a number of you, a former academic. It turns out that formal student status, which gives rise to a number of rights, is based on obtaining the baccalaureate. If you can take a degree course without having the baccalaureate – you are absolutely right on this point, Madame de La Raudière – you cannot benefit from student status, in the official sense of the term, without being a holder of it. That is why, for strictly legal reasons, we are restoring the condition of holding a bachelor's degree in order to claim the national status of student-entrepreneur, which is not an entrepreneur or a person undergoing a degree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u563	Thank you for your explanation, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u564	I have before me five amendments, Nos 6, 181, 602, 669 and 1199, to delete Article 13a A. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u565	The law of 14 March 2016 provides that two types of consular bodies may be set up at regional level: the regional chambers of trades and crafts, the CRMAs, or the regional chambers of trades and crafts, the CMARs. Depending on the type of consular body, the competence of the departmental chambers varies considerably: only the CRMA have autonomous human and financial resources as well as legal personality. Article 13 bis A of the draft law on the growth and transformation of enterprises abolishes the CRMA and imposes the model of the CMAR from 1 January 2021. The removal of the CRMA is tantamount to taking note of the remoteness of the decision-making centres and to widening the territorial divide, particularly in rural and mountain areas. This article, which introduces an uncoordinated reorganization of the CMA network in favour of regionalisation, runs counter to the territorial proximity indispensable to artisans, especially in rural areas far from metropolitan centres. That is why we propose to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u566	Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 181, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u567	I would simply ask you not to destabilize the network of CCIs but also not to destabilize the network of chambers of commerce and crafts. Unfortunately, that is what you are trying to do in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u568	[[Smile]] Let's see! That's our only ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u569	This will be one of the hallmarks of the PACTE bill: to have destabilized the network of CCIs and CMAs in the territories. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u570	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 602.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u571	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u572	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor in support of Amendment No 669.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u573	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u574	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1199.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u575	I agree with what my colleague said earlier. I stress one point: if a number of CMARs like those in the Hauts-de-France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur or Pays de la Loire regions seem to subscribe to this model, it can pose serious problems in large regions such as Occitanie. Moreover, the concerns about this are acute and this reform is causing many misunderstandings on the part of artisans and chambers of commerce. Indeed, this organizational modality will keep decision-making places away. It is ultimately the TPEs and SMEs, i.e. the companies most in need of support, which will find themselves destabilised. That is why we propose the deletion of this article introduced here at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u576	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u577	It is obviously unfavorable. It is obviously not our intention to destabilize the CMA network. In this connection, I would like to recall that, at the general meeting of CMA France – ex-APCMA – on 12 and 13 December 2018, I believe, 70% of the representatives of the CMAs of the territories voted for this regionalisation. We will have to deal with the same issues as the KICs, particularly with regard to equalization. It was therefore the network itself that made this choice in December at its general meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u578	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 241, 586 and 887. Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 241, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u579	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u580	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 586.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u581	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u582	I call Mr Forissier to support Amendment No. 887.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u583	It is in a way an amendment of withdrawal, which aims to supplement Article 13a A by strengthening all that would maintain the legitimacy of the chambers of trades and departmental crafts, which is particularly important in the rural departments: the maintenance of the name "chambre de métiers et de l'artiste départementale", CMAD, in order to maintain a sense of belonging among the artisans; the organisation of elections with departmental lists, with a view to ensuring the proximity of elected officials to their nationals; the preservation of the capacity of the chambers of trades and departmental crafts; ensuring fair representation of departments in the regional chamber – this is essential. Finally, the local initiative budgets of the CMADs should be determined taking into account local reality. These provisions do not call into question Article 13 bis A, but specify it. These are common sense measures, which would reassure everyone, and perhaps even promote the implementation of the reform proposed by the Government. I therefore appeal to the wisdom of the minister and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u584	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u585	He's unfavorable. A choice was made: regionalization. Maintaining the CMADs as legal persons does not seem wise to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u586	We could keep the symbols.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u587	On the other hand, it seems to me essential that the CMAs organise themselves at the departmental level and rely on inter-communities. That's what we need to go to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u588	That is precisely the subject of our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u589	No! Unless I've misunderstood, you want to maintain the business chambers and departmental crafts. Isn't that right, Mr. Forissier?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u590	I invite you to reply to the rapporteur, Mr Forissier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u591	Mr rapporteur, through these amendments, we propose the retention of the name "chambre de métiers et de l'artisain départementale" and the organisation of elections with departmental lists, but within the framework of the regional chamber provided for in Article 13a A. We are therefore not at the heart of the reform, namely regionalisation. It is simply a matter of preserving a number of symbols, in order to maintain a certain proximity. Indeed – and I am not the only one to say it – the artisans are very attached to this proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u592	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u593	There is no question of legal personality; We want to work on the name, ensure that the local initiative budget will be well adapted to local realities and ensure the effective representation of departmental chambers in the regional chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u594	These would be measures of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u595	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u596	I find the intention laudable, Mr. Forissier. Nevertheless, I will express an unfavourable opinion on these amendments because they pose a number of formal problems. In particular, since we are now talking no longer about APCMA but about CMA France, the new wording of the article would be partly inoperative. In addition, Denis Sommer's response shows that there is a risk of ambiguity. When we read the amendments in detail, we can see that this is not what you are proposing, but we have the feeling that by keeping the name – which, moreover, is not correct – we maintain the legal personality. This could lead to some confusion. I therefore ask for these amendments to be withdrawn, even though the intention – which, although I have understood correctly, is to preserve the identity and culture of the chambers of commerce and crafts – is good. Indeed, in the current state, in addition to being inaccurate, their drafting would lead to some confusion about the legal personality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u597	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u598	Thank you, Minister, for your willingness to take into account the logic of these amendments. I take it from your remarks that, in the context of the implementation of the reform, you will see with CMA France and representatives of the chambers of trade and crafts how to ensure a fair representation of the departments in the regional chamber, especially for the rural departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u599	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u600	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u601	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u602	If we agree on this point, I shall withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u603	I confirm that we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u604	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u605	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u606	Me too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u607	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u608	The expression of two particularities reflects the desire to root out the consular chambers. One, relayed by Mr Aviragnet earlier, referred to the metropolitan title. Mrs Pau-Langevin proposes here a specific name for the Chamber of Crafts and Crafts of Paris, in the name of the identity of the capital, its density and the singular imprint that the craft and the trade have on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u609	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u610	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u611	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u612	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u613	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u614	I think this is a good idea, given the importance and special status of the city of Paris. My colleague Pierre-Yves Bournazel drew my attention to this amendment by Mrs George Pau-Langevin, to which I support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u615	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u616	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u617	It was a common-sense amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u618	Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 122, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u619	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u620	I call Mr Denis Sommer to support Amendment No. 948.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u621	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u622	The committee maintained the deletion by the Senate of Rule 13 bis B.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u623	Mr Denis Sommer has the floor to support Amendment No. 451.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u624	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u625	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No. 211.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u626	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u627	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u628	Request for withdrawal because the amendment is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u629	Withdrawn!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u630	The next speaker is Mr Daniel Fasquelle, in support of Amendment No 242.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u631	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u632	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u633	Same notice: request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u634	Withdrawn!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u635	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1243.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u636	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u637	Mr Roland Lescure has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 448 and 449, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u638	They're editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u639	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1229.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u640	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u641	Mr Roland Lescure, in support of Amendment No. 450, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u642	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u643	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendments Nos 950 and 951, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u644	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u645	Amendment No 447 by Mr Denis Sommer is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u646	The commission maintained the Senate's deletion of section 13d.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u647	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 1210.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u648	The chambers of agriculture themselves manage their unemployment insurance, in particular through a pooled fund – membership of this fund is not compulsory. This amendment seeks to link them to the general unemployment insurance scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u649	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-15-O1181.u650	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the new reading of the Business Growth and Transformation Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
