ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on cooperation in defence matters and the status of forces (No. 899, 1412).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u2	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u3	The agreement on defence cooperation and the status of forces between France and Nigeria raises a twofold fundamental challenge: that of defence agreements as such and that of the use of armed forces in Africa. The defence agreements allow our country to integrate into the regional politico-military game in Africa and, as a result, question Communist MEPs about the real intentions of such agreements. The agreement with Nigeria, signed on 16 June 2016, deals with defence cooperation and the status of forces. Its objective is to provide a legal framework for the joint actions of the Nigerian and French armies, including on the issue of intelligence and training of military personnel. This type of agreement is similar to that signed with other African countries to which Paris is very close, such as the Comoros, Togo, Senegal, Djibouti, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea and Mali. In recent years, France has wanted to give a new boost to these defence agreements. The big question is this: are these new agreements the false noses of the elders, directly from the post-colonial period, or are they truly a new beginning for France in Africa? It seems useful to question ourselves today because, as you all know, agreements of this type pose two questions: the very philosophy of bilateralism, which places on the agreements the weight of asymmetry between the two countries and of the balance of power; and the question of our country's relationship with Africa. Let us take the problem of bilateralism. What's his advantage? Why, for example, is the American President meticulously trying to destroy multilateralism for his benefit? Because the United States, the world's largest military power, has a balance of forces that is always favourable to it when it comes to face-to-face discussions with another state, while it is largely lost in international forums. Donald Trump uses this power-sharing advantage in all sectors, which means continually weakening the global multilateral architecture at the same time as the real sovereignty of states. In the case of an agreement between France and an African power, it is necessarily France, one of the world's largest military powers, that has the hand on negotiations. Bilateral agreements on defence cooperation and the status of forces are the result of asymmetric negotiations between France and some African countries, including almost all its former colonies. With Nigeria, this agreement is intended to be offensive: France integrates into the English-speaking space of the Gulf of Guinea and demonstrates to the United States and Great Britain that it still has ambitions in Africa. As such, it seems that France, like other powers, wants to position itself to share the great Nigerian cake, which contains huge reserves of oil and hydrocarbons, mainly located at sea and requiring to be secured before sending French companies to exploit them – this area is one of the most frequented in the world by pirates. France's ambitions in Africa are therefore not lacking, just as they were not lacking yesterday. Yesterday's defence agreements were France's extension in its former colonies, through a military presence in Paris on the spot, having, in exchange for protection of the political regime, the training of military cadres and the supply of weapons, a monopoly on access to natural resources. The French military presence in Africa has continued beyond colonization as a result of these agreements: France has intervened sixty times in twenty-four countries in sixty years, for the greater good of African potentials and for the preservation of natural resources deemed indispensable to the French economy. That's it, Françafrique! And all this continues despite the hypocritical wishes of each President of the French Republic to put an end to the opaque ties between France and the leaders of its former colonies. And if an African power shows even a few ambitions for independence, as was the case in Côte d'Ivoire after the 2000 elections, life assurance of the French military presence is transformed into a destabilizing and weakening factor for that power. In this regard, let me ask you about France's exact role in the bombing of Bouaké in 2004 and the ensuing events. In this connection, I note that in the case concerning the bombing, the investigating judge, Sabine Kheris, requests that the ministers of the time, Dominique de Villepin, Michèle Alliot-Marie and Michel Barnier, be referred to the Court of Justice of the Republic. Are we dealing with a barbuzerie that went wrong and this time would mix the blood of our soldiers with that of Ivorian citizens? Do you plan to open the archives so that the truth in this case will finally burst out? All these methods are the roots of France's deplorable image on the African continent and the reason for our lack of credibility in Africa. With our past, it is the principle of non-interference that should be the course of action of our country that, among others, has committed the worst crimes and horrors on the African continent. He looted his inhabitants, his resources, his money, and it has been going on for decades. It has to stop! But this is not the path that the Macron Presidency is taking. France's colonial habit is still largely preserved in some African countries, as we saw again in 2019 in Chad, Djibouti or Côte d'Ivoire, to name but a few examples. Indeed, there have been very strong resurgences of these Franco-African principles in Chad, where last February the French army bombarded a column of vehicles belonging to opponents of Chadian dictator Idriss Déby. This zealous Head of State is protected, against all logic, by France, who thanks him by allowing him to remain in his post without being denounced, while he has been there since 1990. Can a country like ours afford to protect a man who runs a state as if he were his property, who does not hesitate to suppress his opponents, to practice torture and kidnapping? We are still waiting for clarification on this issue. Maybe it's unfaithful? We will continue to hold to account! But Chad is not the only country still under French protection. As its head of state, Ismail Omar Guelleh, says, despite the changes in the region, nothing is moving in Djibouti. When it comes to doing small gestures for Djibouti, the French State does not deprive itself. Recently, Mohamed Kadamy, a Djiboutian opponent with political refugee status in France, was charged and risked being returned to Djibouti in violation of French law in order to satisfy the Djiboutian regime, or even to exchange it with a Djiboutian prisoner who would have a role in the Sarkozy-Kadhafi case. Let us take a third example of France's protection against its faithful: Côte d'Ivoire. After learning what can be called a coup d'état by Alassane Ouattara in 2011, France allowed the new Head of State to send Laurent Gbagbo to the International Criminal Court. After seven years of proceedings, during which Laurent Gbagbo was in pre-trial detention, in total contradiction with the recommendations in the matter of the European Court of Human Rights, he is kept on parole without being able to return to Côte d'Ivoire after his trial while he was acquitted, which is in contradiction with all the principles of law! It seems that the Ivorian and, above all, French pressures have allowed the main opponent of Alassane Ouattara to put sticks in the wheels, preventing him from returning to his country on the eve of the presidential elections in 2020. French interference in the internal affairs of countries such as Djibouti, Chad or Côte d'Ivoire is unbearable and not worthy of our country. Bilateral defence agreements, if they have changed in form since the 1970s, thus allow France to maintain a presence in its former colonies, which poses serious probity problems in the use of our armed forces. No one has grown up in this history, and France would do better to work in Africa differently than to use its army to guarantee dictators stability conducive to business and destructive people. When it comes to Françafrique, France practices an untenable double standard in the long term. Thus, the French army did not intervene to put an end to the massacre in Duékoué, Côte d'Ivoire, of several thousand people by the supporters of Alassane Ouattara, the current president – a massacre that was commemorated yesterday. On the other hand, when Idriss Déby asks France to attack his opponents, we bomb them. When an attack kills nearly 160 people in a Malian village, France does not move. However, we have signed a defence cooperation agreement with Mali, which was ratified in 2015. What is France doing? Why was it so quick to attack Chadian opponents? Why does she not react when it comes to massacres of Malians or Ivorians? Why is she stubborn in Mali in a strategy that is failing? I think the Government will be able to shed some light on this situation and on what the Minister of the Armed Forces Florence Parly recently said: "Will we be led to intervene whenever we are asked to do so? No. The decision ultimately falls within the discretion of the President of the Republic. In this case, it was not desirable that a country strongly contributing to the fight against terrorism and present on other fronts should be destabilized, ultimately resulting in an increase in our commitments in OPEX. That is said. As far as Nigeria is concerned, since it is not a former French colony, but a former British colony, it is the French influence that matters – proof, however, that a defence agreement remains a strong instrument for integrating into a territory, in particular for the sale of arms in the country in question, the rapporteur has confirmed it to us in words barely covered. Let us not forget that the current Foreign Minister was the defence minister who sold the most arms. The problem with France's military and security obsession in West Africa is that it misses the real issues. By insisting on the armed forces, you seem to forget that violence is never at the root of a problem; They are rather a consequence. I would go even further: if violence is the consequence of deep problems, trying to resolve violence through other violence without tackling its roots usually only makes things worse. With regard to the Sahelo-Saharan band, we see that no military action has been able to respond satisfactorily to a political and social question. This area is full of intertwined conflicts: religious, territorial, access to primary resources such as food and water, and public services. Access to education and health was, it must be said, ruined by the various structural adjustment policies of the 1980s and 1990s imposed by the International Monetary Fund following the debt crisis of the countries of the South, a crisis caused by the very architecture of the world economic system, as indicated by the Committee for the Abolition of Third World Debt. Can we imagine that people are allowed to die without education or health because the dogmatics of liberalism deny them access to them? These destructive policies have left traces. These white-bleed countries have had to abandon their public services in order to better repay their debts on the order of the rich countries: economic colonization, in short. The frustrations and hatreds, for some created by colonization, for others, have been instrumentalized and have contributed to the destabilization and underdevelopment of many African countries. Beyond the problems of public services, which very often fail or do not exist, the question of competition for resources between the different users of the land allows us to see in concrete terms the lack of state regulation of these problems. The weakness and even corruption of these states also fuel such violence, especially in the context of climate change. Some experts consider that in Mali, because of the desertification caused by climate change, breeders are far more competitive with farmers than before – the rapporteur said. This competition brought about by environmental disasters feeds hatred in its turn. As livestock farmers are mostly from an ethnic group other than that of farmers, with religious differences in the background, cohabitation is undermined and the social body torn apart. Resources such as water are also increasingly a source of conflict. In the West African hydrogeographic basin, agriculture uses about 75 per cent of water resources; But development is beginning to create conflicts of use. These are issues that need to be taken into account in the development of States. On the other hand, the exploitation of hydropower, which has enormous potential in Africa, must be considered and implemented in a concerted and mutually beneficial manner, failing which the proliferation of dams could lead to problems in the territories and downstream countries. These energy issues are all the more important because Niger, for example, depends on 80 per cent of Nigeria for its energy. France's aid for the construction of a dam on the Niger River must take account of these risks of tension between the two countries. More broadly, the energy sovereignty of countries like Nigeria will need to be greatly improved. The objective of the rich countries is, as always, to maintain their sources of energy supply, which is done at the expense of the countries with these resources. That is why Nigeria suffers, while it is the largest oil producer in Africa and has the most abundant reserves in Africa after Libya. Nigeria is also one of the five largest exporters of liquefied natural gas in the world. However, this country has one of the lowest per capita electricity production rates in the world, with only 40% of its inhabitants having access to electricity – when supply is assured. The control of resources is therefore not Nigerian, but managed by multinational companies that exploit them for export. If oil pipelines and pipelines are frequently attacked, it is because the attackers know very well that these pipes go directly to the West and they will never see the color of the money it brings. And it is not by bombing them that we will solve the problem of the capture of natural wealth by rich countries! It is time to understand that military operations increase the terrorist risk more than they eliminate it. Jean-François Bayart, a professor at the Institut de hautes études internationales et du développement, said recently on a public radio station. He cited the example of Kenya, which, by intervening in Somalia, imported terrorism into its territory, or that of Chad and Cameroon, which amplified the terrorist phenomenon by attempting to fight Boko Haram in northern Nigeria. He also referred to the spread of terrorist phenomena in Burkina Faso because of the military intervention in Mali. Hate and hatred, war has never solved anything. It is peace that allows people to prosper. The most convincing example will be Libya, which is home to Africa's largest oil reserves. This country, crucified by Sarkozy for reasons still obscure, but which leaves no ambiguity as to the cynicism of this dirty war, has become the breeding ground of terrorism, now housing the remains of Daesh and all the mafias of the world, who come to practice freely the trafficking of human beings, slavery, the trafficking of arms and drugs. Many migrants from West Africa are passing through Libya, and the horrors they suffer there are cold in their backs, especially when we know that this war is the work of France, and that the European Union pays Libyan militias to stem migration. These horrors also revive the memories of the trans-Saharan human trafficking of sad memory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u4	Stop it, it's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u5	We must therefore put an end to interference. Helping these countries regain their political, social, economic and industrial sovereignty in order to support the mobilization of their domestic resources, either, but let us stop doing the police for our sole interests. Even official development assistance will have to be managed more openly and less cynically by the Agence française de développement, AFD. Florence Parly, interviewed by the Senate a few weeks ago, said that "to protect oneself as far as possible against the risk of rejection of the foreign military presence, development projects must also be carried out. She added that, in this regard, "we wish to link Barkhane's action more effectively with the actions of the Agence française de développement, so that the restoration of security can benefit people directly. That is how the military presence will be better tolerated. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u6	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u7	These words are very worrying: for the Minister of Armed Forces, AFD is the mask behind which the French army hides. It is also a matter of concern because it means that our official development assistance does not reflect a relatively disinterested desire to develop some of the poorest countries, breaking with colonization and neocolonialism, but only that of having people swallow a foreign military presence. This is a scandal and we should not tolerate such words in a minister's mouth. It must be said: France would grow if it took the lead in a new type of diplomacy, leaving the camp of the militarist and follower powers of the American positions to adopt a status of power serving the interests of the peoples. But to do this, we must change everything, because France does not take the path of this ambition, quite the contrary. Ambitious diplomacy at all levels would require first of all to stop making savings on the back of the Quai d'Orsay on each finance bill; to re-establish embassies as the vehicle for French values and culture, not the VRPs of French companies; to put France at the centre of international organizations; meet its international commitments by allocating 0.7 per cent of its annual GDP to official development assistance; to distribute these aid more responsibly, in partnership with NGOs, civil society organisations, and countries that have a real need for funding. That would require much stronger action within the United Nations Security Council to enforce the resolutions voted on. This applies to Western Sahara as well as to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and to all the frozen conflicts in the world. Rather than exhausting itself from obtaining a permanent seat on the Security Council for another European country, France should ensure that the African Union becomes a permanent member of the Security Council. France could also conduct a thorough and multilateral reflection to finally leave the CFA franc system, a colonial anachronism dangerous to the political, monetary and financial sovereignty of the African countries that use it and a monetary instrument hindering development. Finding, through the debate with Africans, a credible alternative to this currency should be one of our diplomatic duties. France could also use its influence to try to change the governance of the World Bank, a forum where a dollar gives a voice. It is not possible to continue in this way or to accept that the presidency should be reserved for an American. We have to put an end to what Bertrand Badie calls connivance diplomacy. It could also encourage the European Union to break out of anti-immigration dogmatism by working on other development aid policies aimed at establishing a balanced economy that meets the needs of people and creates jobs that can give them life prospects. In short, the opposite of what we are doing right now. Indeed, there is only a social emergency. It is wrong to believe that humans like to wage war. Some may find their interest, but most would be content with a better life without having to fight, kill and die. The Communist MEPs therefore remain convinced that, while this military agreement can potentially protect the country from tragedy, it will not prevent war. It is not by sending our army and our military know-how to the field that we will eliminate conflicts as if by enchantment. It is by working with people to better allocate natural resources; large-scale development of local, productive and environmentally friendly and independent agriculture – I know that the chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is sensitive to this – the large agro-industrial companies that plunder the lands and resources of the most fragile states, whose land laws are often the result of colonization; the rehabilitation of public services; supporting the efforts of States and peoples to solve these problems through official development assistance aimed at mobilizing domestic resources for the benefit of peoples; by working to protect these countries from the horrors of free trade treaties and at least the so-called fiscal ones. When we talk about taxation, we often think here of the tax evasion of the countries of the North, which is a real tragedy for the people. Tax dumping in Africa is an absolute evil. Multinationals play with this leverage to exploit resources without paying fair taxes. The former budget minister of Laurent Gbagbo, Justin Koné Katinan, explains this perfectly in his book "Economy and development in Africa". I quote: "The idea of a reduction in corporate tax in order to promote its implementation in Africa is a great scam raised by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank [...] All African countries have embarked on competitive policies to develop very flexible investment codes, hoping to attract as many investors as possible. » But when you sacrifice your tax revenues, you have to resort to debt, and that's the vicious circle set in motion! Justin Koné Katinan states, for example, that if Côte d'Ivoire had had a corporate tax rate similar to the European average, this would have brought about an additional $6 billion to the caisses of that state in 2015. Capitalism is crazy and we see the consequences of this madness in Mali, a country – one more! – which sinks into liberal chaos. Communist MEPs have always said so, but these examples make it possible to understand clearly in which prison the African countries are in. The battle for large multinational companies to pay what they must be international; This fight must be fought both at home and in Africa. The sums at stake are huge. Again, this would avoid many wars. This defence agreement with Nigeria, you will understand, does not raise as much concern as those signed with the dictatorships of Djibouti and Chad, for example; But what about tomorrow? In this regard, I would like to take advantage of our debate so that we can reflect together. Our Parliament must be able to deal with the issues of international treaties, not downstream, as we are doing today, but upstream. National representation could, as we say regularly in committee, have proposed a few points to be included in this treaty. At one time, we addressed the issue of the abolition of the death penalty in our treaties, and we could have put it for Nigeria, for example. Let me therefore propose a development that our committee could collectively support. I would like to make it clear that I do not wish to open a debate on the possibility of amending the Treaties, since the subsequent amendment of an act already signed would constitute a betrayal to the other party and would lead to a slowing down of the ratification procedure. However, many of us regularly point out that it would have been interesting to allow national representation to draw red lines for our diplomacy and to formulate the intangible principles that we would like to see enshrined in a particular treaty. For example, we could ask that the many air service agreements – which we discussed again this Tuesday in committee – systematically include compliance with the Paris agreements, and that they include an explicit mention of respect for the environment or minimum pollution or even safety standards. Trade agreements with Canada, Japan, New Zealand and Australia have been for many of the traumas: these opaque negotiating spaces created voluntarily away from the people have only added to the legitimate mistrust of free trade treaties. We could therefore imagine the establishment of a forum or the drafting of a legally binding text: certain principles would have to be included in the texts submitted for signature by the Head of State. I know it would be a revolution in how we operate, but it could generate diplomacy to which the representatives of the people and the people themselves would be interested. We always have an interest in the people, who are sovereign, being able to monitor the actions of those who work for them and on their behalf, including on international issues. While, every Saturday, French people in yellow vests – and others – are beating to claim a right to a deeper democracy and greater equality between citizens, I think it is interesting to look at what we could do at the level of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, more broadly, at the level of diplomacy, so that the reserved areas are democratised. Here are the reasons why I propose to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u8	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u9	A quick word to follow up on your somewhat caricatural remarks, if you will allow me this term, and even very caricatural, which go beyond the question which is of concern to us today and which is quite simple, since it is a defence agreement between Nigeria and France. You have revisited all of Africa's politics, and I, for my part, will be careful not to do the same. If I can agree with you on the need to step up development aid, I really believe that development will only happen if the situation in Africa is stable. This cooperation agreement in the field of defence goes precisely in this direction: stability is the first of the issues that we are putting forward. The aim is to ensure that African actors can be the primary guarantors of their security. For this, I said earlier, we intervene in the areas of intelligence, training, and not at all through a military presence or direct actions in these countries – particularly in Nigeria – as you seem to think. We are therefore discussing a defence agreement to work even further towards the stability of Africa, to ensure that Africans enjoy self-sustaining protection, which will promote the development of those countries. This is also the case with Nigeria, an important African power that we must support through the means I have just mentioned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So I will not go any further and I will not do Africa's policy again today!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u10	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u11	In considering this text in committee, you had expressed a number of reservations about the scope and content of these agreements, but you had voted in favour, saying that it seemed important to you to deepen our cooperation with Nigeria. Without naivety or angelism, I find it difficult to understand the purpose and meaning of the motion of rejection that you put forward. I do not think that France can be accused of neo-colonialism in Nigeria. Your intervention goes far beyond the stakes of this agreement, which formalizes existing security and defence relations. I can hear other concerns that you have expressed here and in committee. Of course, integration with a Sahel G7 would be an interesting way forward. We all share the same demands here so that human rights are better respected in the world. We therefore do not want defence agreements to become an agreement on arms sales without any State control. However, for reasons which we have widely mentioned in committee, we must foster a closer relationship with Nigeria – you yourself agreed, that was the meaning of your vote in committee. To work on this perspective, you have to start somewhere. It is precisely the object of the agreement that is before us today, which is not an outcome but a beginning, a first stone. I therefore invite our colleagues to reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u12	We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u13	Thank you, dear Jean-Paul Lecoq, for revisiting in your way fifty years of African relations. We find ourselves on some points, for example when you talk about health, access to education, energy. Of course, we agree not only with these intentions, but also with the public policies that have been pursued for years in terms of development and co-development. In this case, that is not what we are discussing today. Until the tenth minute of your speech, I thought that you had forgotten that Nigeria is not an old French colony, as your speech focused on any other subject than the one that concerns us today. You spoke of "bilateral relations of forces." Nigeria has 200 million inhabitants, almost 400 million. If there were a balance of forces, he would be rather in our disfavor! You talked about "interference." To listen to you, it would seem that French armed forces are already massed on the border with Nigeria! Let's return to more realism! As the Secretary of State has said, this agreement is aimed precisely at promoting greater autonomy of African and Nigerian security and defence forces so that they can ensure their own security in their territories. The agreement is the opposite of the conclusions you draw from it. Finally, you said in committee: "I will conclude by stressing that I will vote for this agreement, not because it allows us to broaden our area of influence and to derive economic benefits from it..." – you can therefore, contrary to what you have said, see it as an economic advantage – "...but because it seems to me to favour a kind of somewhat different relationship and to advance peace in the world. » No doubt these are two different ways of considering this agreement at two different times! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will of course vote against this motion for a preliminary rejection, in fidelity to your commitment in committee, Mr Lecoq!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u14	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u15	We must not cast reproach on my comrade Jean-Paul! The vote in committee was quick, things going pretty fast – and that is good, by the way, proof that our committee is working well – and, since then, it has had time to reflect on a number of points. In addition, he directed his speech towards a set of extremely ancient themes, since they date back to the 1950s. These are those of the Communist Party, and he defended them rather brilliantly, even if we are not all obliged to agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u16	It's 2019!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u17	Perhaps, but the start-up nation is not necessarily always positive, let me tell you. On the other hand, I am obviously not quite on the same line as my socialist comrades, whom I speak for today. We are talking about a particular subject: a new military agreement with Nigeria – on which I will have the opportunity to come back during the general discussion – which has allowed us to develop other points. Do we have to go so far? With Nigeria having no colonial history with France, perhaps this is an opportunity to develop a new collaboration independent of what we have been able to do right or wrong at one time. At least that's what I think, too. [[Smile]] Out of class solidarity, I will not vote against this motion to reject...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u18	You don't take a lot of risks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u19	...even if I would have preferred a motion to refer it back to committee, on which I would have voted. So I will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u20	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u21	I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République) on the move. I will not take up all our disagreements on a point-by-point basis, since I have only two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u22	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u23	I can assure you, for having lived through the situations you have mentioned, that the feelings of Africans towards our soldiers are in no way the ones you describe. This text is a strong sign to our soldiers, who serve and protect us beyond our borders. It is a strong sign of our commitment to their safety and living conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u24	You're in a good position to talk about it, indeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u25	Thank you. This agreement protects the status of our soldiers and offers them essential guarantees. It is part of similar agreements that we have ratified with several countries, including Côte d'Ivoire, which you have cited, and recently Jordan. It is also a continuation of the military programming law by which we launched a general movement to improve the living conditions of our soldiers, both here and elsewhere. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This agreement with Nigeria is of particular importance, because it deepens the two cooperation agreements that make it an essential partner, involved in the security of the Sahelo-Saharan band, because it offers a high level of protection and guarantees equivalent rights, both in France and Nigeria, in a country, my dear colleague, who still practises capital punishment. I hope that this last argument will suffice to convince you to confirm your vote in committee and thus allow this very fine text to be voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u26	In the general debate, Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u27	More than 7,000 civilians killed, 7,000 abductions of women to serve as sexual slaves, including 276 high school girls in Chibok: the human impact of the jihadist insurrection in Boko Haram speaks for itself and amply justifies a strong military rapprochement and cooperation with Nigeria in the fight against these terrorists. Nigeria is experiencing a complicated internal situation, with the presence of armed terrorist groups that thrive on poverty and unemployment, mainly in the north of the country. With 200 million people – 400 million by 2050 – Nigeria is also the central country in the stability we all want and seek in the Sahel. Without stability in Nigeria, how can we imagine a solution for Niger, Cameroon, Chad, Burkina Faso or Mali? There is much to be feared of the evolution of this geopolitical situation for the most populous country in Africa, the same country that is experiencing the fastest economic development. That is why France has every interest in getting closer to this country and developing with it the defence partnerships that had been initiated under François Hollande. The objectives of this partnership are multiple. First, Nigeria must be helped to strengthen and secure its internal space. The fight against Boko Haram is an important issue, because the link with other terrorist groups could be very damaging at a time when we know that many jihadists driven out of the Middle East by the international coalition are trying to regain a foothold in Africa. We must contribute to the fight against maritime insecurity along the Nigerian coast, where most of the country's infrastructure is concentrated, drawing the economy from the whole region. Control of the Gulf of Guinea, in which we have interests and a military presence, is a major issue. There is also a need to secure borders in order to make them less porous for armed groups. The challenge is immense in terms of threats. Despite the French presence and the very important effort undertaken by the countries of the G5 Sahel to build a common security force, we must note that these armed groups are expanding their influence and are playing internal tensions unique to the countries of this region in order to prosper. It is finally – and it is our responsibility – to do everything possible to secure the activities of French companies and the lives of our citizens. For these reasons, it is strategic for France to engage further with its African allies in order to offer training for military personnel and to empower them to take charge of their own defence. Many steps are being taken in this direction. They need to be reinforced and trusted by our partners who have a perfect knowledge of their field. This is a major point, because the ultimate objective is the "africanization" of security and peacekeeping operations. This must be done by maintaining our strategic interests and by working to integrate other actors into these operations – I am thinking of China or the United States among other things. It is therefore in cooperation of reciprocity that we must act, in line with what the President of the Republic defends. Our approach must be comprehensive and address all the issues at stake. The security of our partners requires not only training and military cooperation, but also access to education and a higher standard of living. I agree with Jean-Paul Lecoq on this point. Development is ultimately the best way to ensure the prosperity and stability of this part of the world. This reflection is part of a framework other than the one we are interested in this afternoon. The fight against Boko Haram must go well through the strengthening of military cooperation. That is what we are doing with this convention. It must also involve strengthening culture, education and social inclusion. To leave entire sections of the population in economic, cultural and social misery means to make these populations vulnerable to hateful and fanatical speech. Building true solidarity and cooperation with areas of conflict that fuel terrorism is also one of our objectives. Our country regularly enters into defence agreements with States with which we have strong and multiple relations, be they economic, historical or diplomatic. This agreement has this again that Nigeria is not one of the African States with which France is used to dealing, particularly in economic terms, even though some 100 French companies are present in Nigeria. This country is not yet the country with which we are doing the most economic development. This convention is in line with our desire to strengthen our military relationship with Africa on a partnership basis, with the ultimate objective of helping African countries to ensure their own security. This partnership is also an opportunity for French and French-speaking Canadians in an English-speaking state surrounded by French-speaking countries. It is our duty to develop French in this country because it is to be feared that, if we do not, English will gradually flourish in French-speaking countries. In keeping with the spirit of this agreement, we will need to focus on learning French by Nigerian soldiers to better coordinate their approach, in particular with their G5 Sahel counterparts. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This agreement places France in a secure partnership with a country in a strategic position in the region. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u28	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u29	When we talk about Africa and the relations of the French army with this continent, we are always on the line and, from time to time, almost on moving sands. This agreement goes far beyond this framework, in the sense that it seems to me to be quite current and modern. Starting from fairly conventional assistance, which can be considered banal, excessive or uncontrollable, we have moved to a strategic, collaborative, arms and intelligence work agenda. This is probably one of the most modern agreements that exist with an African country. He's very innovative. As Bruno Fuchs said, we are in an English enclave. We haven't set foot in Nigeria, where we don't have a colonial past – which is quite rare in Central Africa. It is only a beginning of collaboration that we must develop. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we are working very hard on diplomatic and cultural aspects, aid for foreign students. I thank the Chair for sending a very nice letter about the insanity of tuition increases for international students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u30	Courageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u31	Bruno Fuchs and I co-signed this letter, which calls for a one-year moratorium. In fact, this moratorium will not be enough. I am reassured by the courage of the President and the will of some Members of the majority. Nigeria had accepted French as the second official language until 2004. In the absence of a response and response, this provision was deleted. We have the opportunity to settle in this country, the largest in Africa, where we do not have a colonial past. I hope we will, but maybe I'm a little utopian.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u32	It's good for your health!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u33	In this country where we do not have a colonial past, we have the opportunity to do great things. For having been rapporteur of a text on piracy, I think it is an essential subject. Our navy must be present in the Gulf of Guinea. As for Boko Haram, what a horror! If it can, our army must help eradicate this absolutely abominable movement. The cocktail made up by the army and industrial interests is always a little complicated. Total has long-standing interests in this country, with recent development opportunities. The group will continue its Ikike oil research project in the Gulf of Guinea. It also invests in liquefied natural gas, a matter I know a little bit because the LNG tanker works a lot with the port of Dunkirk. All of this is a mixture that can make you think of Françafrique. For my part, I think the situation is different for Nigeria, as we can do something new with this country with which we have no colonial past. We have a chance to settle down slowly, quietly, trying to move things forward. It should also be noted that Nigeria is not the most perfect democracy in the world. The death penalty is still being applied. I would also like to talk about one last area: health. If there is one African country that we can help a lot in this area, it is Nigeria. Polio developed in an absolutely terrible way. Cholera also affects this country, which is not surprising given poverty: 70 per cent of Nigerians live on less than a dollar a day. Someone said there were twenty-two Nigerian billionaires. I'm very happy about that. I don't think they're getting cholera. There are also many AIDS patients, a disease against which there are now real possibilities for treatment. We could influence wealthy multinationals that sell treatments at impossible prices. We could do extraordinary things in Africa. Finally, France could help fight malaria, which is developing in Nigeria. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the members of the Socialist and related group will vote for this text, while remaining cautious about this cocktail formed by the army and groups like Total and Elf. This agreement can be a challenge, because Nigeria is a British enclave and a little American in which we could try to pursue a new French policy in Africa. We could succeed as we hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u34	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you are happy to see me again. It fits my heart. Thank you. I will first respond to the rapporteur's concerns. It is true that I voted in favour of this text in committee, on the basis of the elements it gave us with talent. On that occasion, I pointed out that the report was excellent. Having said that, parliamentarians have the right to continue to document themselves between the meeting in committee and the presentation of the text in the Chamber. The passage into committee and then into session allows to work on the bills, the bills, the texts to be ratified. To reassure the rapporteur, I would also point out that I will not vote against this text. I have expressed concerns and will continue to do so, but I have clearly measured the value of this new agreement, which I find relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u36	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u37	Madam Secretary of State, I'm happy if it also reassures you, but still wait for the next one! The motion for prior rejection allowed me to raise the question of defence agreements in general, to talk about the problems of Françafrique and to propose a reflection aimed at allowing the national representation to draw some red lines for our diplomacy, prior to the negotiation of the treaties. Let's get back to the bottom of this agreement. It emerged from the awareness in 2014 that cross-border terrorism in the Sahel, around Lake Chad and in the Sahara, could far exceed Nigeria. We also realized that, despite Paris' lack of political influence over Abuja, it was necessary to come closer to fighting together against Boko Haram, who was operating in the Sahelian area of Lake Chad. Although a border State of the Sahel, Nigeria is not part of the G5 Sahel. Why don't you integrate it? As the rapporteur pointed out, I had made this proposal in committee. Such an enlargement would make it possible to tackle the problem more comprehensively. As in the committee, I also propose, in order to ensure that the reflection on the Sahel is complete, to include also the Saharan Arab Democratic Republic in that territory. This State plays a major role on the southern border of the Maghreb in curbing trafficking through the Sahel and the Sahara. It might be interesting for the G5 to become a larger, more inclusive Sahel G7 that would cover a larger area facing similar problems, including illicit trafficking in human beings, drugs or weapons. Beyond the G7 Sahel, this agreement raises the question of the intensification of military relations between our two countries, in particular through the empowerment of the Nigerian army, a race of political and military influence, since the armies, once formed by a state, take its reflexes, its material, and remain under its influence. France is therefore not left with this agreement, which opens the door to a country that has so far not been receptive to its influence, allowing it to gain access to an arms market which could represent a new opportunity for the export of its weapons. With regard to Nigeria, the actions of the Nigerian army should be monitored. On several occasions, NGOs have alerted us to the abuses committed by the army against civilian populations – extrajudicial executions, torture or abductions of alleged Boko Haram members. The case of the accidental bombardment by the Nigerian air force of a camp in January 2017 – and I am left with contemporary examples to satisfy our colleagues in The Republic on the move – which killed 234 people, including nine humanitarian workers, and a hundred wounded, is very worrying. By admitting that it had confused this camp of displaced persons with a camp of insurgents, the army demonstrated that it could be dangerous for the civilian population. You'll probably see an additional reason to train her. In any event, national representation will have to redouble its vigilance in the context of this agreement with a country whose army seems to be very violent against the civilian population, not to mention the opacity of French arms sales, which it is hoped will not be used to commit war crimes. In this regard, the legal framework for arms exports to France is alarming – perhaps we would react differently if it were reformed. French licences are managed only by the executive, under the seal of secrecy-defense – isn't it, Madam Secretary of State? –, totally putting Parliament out of play. Deputies and senators have no knowledge of this process in France, unlike the United Kingdom, Sweden or the Netherlands. In our country, only a report on arms exports is required from the Ministry of Armed Forces, without any obligation to comply with the annual release deadlines. On the contrary, in the United Kingdom, the Government must insist on submitting such data quarterly. The details of exports must also be provided, while in France the vagueness is strict. Sweden, for its part, has real control over Parliament thanks to the presence of Members in the arms control body. The United Kingdom is also very advanced, with a counter-report system that can be established and published officially if Parliament considers that arms exports have not been sufficiently well presented by the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u38	That's an example!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u39	We are far from all this in France. It is regrettable that far too few Members are committed to enhancing transparency in this area, particularly following the massacre of the civilian population by Saudi Arabia in Yemen, potentially with French weapons. It would indeed be fundamental and very instructive to finally be able to launch the committee of inquiry proposed by our colleague Sébastien Nadot on arms sales in Yemen. Unfortunately, this request has still not been successful – it may be a guilty silence. The export of arms to the Sahel will have to be much stricter and controlled, so that we avoid the Libyan tragedy, which I mentioned to you earlier – armed groups today totally uncontrollable have benefited from the French weapons parachuted by Sarkozy to bring down the Gaddafi regime. National representation will have to be extremely vigilant with the weapons our country exports to the West African area. I also want us to think about reforming France's arms export policy by forcing the executive to be more transparent and subject to the control of national representation. The majority has only the word "control" in the mouth when it comes to the role of Parliament, pretending to ignore that the legislative power we hold of the people should be put forward. You have here a real practical case, which would be far from cosmetic! On the other hand, France should commit itself with more determination to another axis, just as strategic as the export of arms, that of ecology. The phenomenon of climate change which is intensifying before our eyes, because it is likely to aggravate inequalities on earth, must be combated everywhere, constantly, because it always affects the most fragile populations. The first commitment to France's peace should therefore be the fulfilment of its own commitments under the Paris Agreement, and the limitation of global warming. This phenomenon knows no borders and the damage caused by the massive industrialization of Western countries for more than a century has profoundly changed the climate balance without Africa or anyone else having a say. Thus, land desertification in Mali is a direct consequence, and its effects are dramatic, as it has caused population movements and impoverishment. In migrants, these populations competed for land use, especially between pastoralism and agriculture, which caused tensions, as in Mali last week. The situation in Lake Chad is similar, while this basin provides water to nearly 30 million people in the four countries bordering the shores of Lake Chad. As a result of the disruption of this ecosystem, the risk of impoverishment of populations in connection with water supply problems, particularly in agriculture, is significant. When conflicts of use take place in such a impoverished area, the risk of recruitment into criminal groups increases, as evidenced by the case of Boko Haram, who holds a real ideological bastion, feeding on the misery of the people, around Lake Chad. This group is now active in several Sahel countries, such as Chad or Niger. This military cooperation agreement with Nigeria is therefore of limited scope and may prove dangerous. It may help to improve the fight against pirate attacks in the Gulf of Guinea or on the shores of Lake Chad, which is already good, but it will never solve the real causes of evil. It does not, on the other hand, respond to the major problems of substance, those who deserve to mobilise all the energy of our diplomacy – global warming, multilateral bodies, the monopoly of certain local consumer products, public services, agri-food and the reconquest of their seeds by the peasants. In conclusion, three elements will lead the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to abstain in the vote on this text: the human rights violations perpetrated by the Nigerian army for several years in the context of the conflict with Boko Haram, the doubt about the real motives behind this agreement, which we hope will not be limited to the export of arms, and finally the legal and judicial security of relations between our two armies, which are already cooperating on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u40	Very good intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u41	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u42	In my constituency in Burkina Faso, a country that is dear to me and which I deeply love, a moré proverb says that "when the neighbour's box burns, we have to wet the beard". Despite the measures already taken to prevent the burning of security threats in West Africa, violence continues to progress to coastal countries. That is why the Defence Cooperation Agreement signed by France in 2016 with Nigeria, one of the seven African states considered to be military powers, seems essential to halt this spread. Nigeria, as we all know, is not spared by terrorism. The jihadist group Boko Haram has been working there for years: we remember in particular the abduction of a hundred and ten young girls. Therefore, more than ever, it is crucial to help that African country facing the terrorist threat to ensure its own security. Faced with this major challenge for the African continent, but also for security in the world, the Libertés et territoires Group considers that the debate that brings us together today is essential. It offers us the opportunity to recall our commitment to this continent marked by so much suffering and difficulty, but also with success and hope, as Nigeria does. A territory of growth and crisis, power and vulnerability, this African giant is a clay-footed colossus that today faces major security challenges. This is why rapprochement with France in the field of defence is an approach that the Libertés et territoires Group supports. We are engaged with you in this cooperation, Madam Secretary of State, because our country is actively involved in the fight against terrorism in the Sahelo-Saharan band, just north of Nigeria. This area is conducive to the expansion of terrorist movements, as it combines many vulnerabilities related to population explosion, climate fragility, lack of future prospects for young people, etc. While northern Nigeria is also experiencing these frailties in a glaring manner, the country as a whole faces many challenges. I am thinking in particular of social and territorial inequalities, ethnic and religious rivalries and violence. Thus, in the centre of the country, the conflict between herders and farmers has left more than 1,300 dead in one year. Moreover, the fall in crude oil prices has plunged Nigeria into the worst economic crisis in its history, despite a timid recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, terrorism can play its part in these difficulties, but also in the porosity of borders, as it can play its part in the failure of political powers, intelligence services or security. France, committed to the stability of this region, sees its security concerns join those of Nigeria, which is becoming an indispensable partner. Through this agreement, our country will be able to continue and intensify the rapprochement already undertaken with Nigeria and thus exchange views, information and advice. He will be able to share his knowledge through joint training and exercises. It will be able to carry out cooperative actions on military equipment and to build genuine cooperation on maritime security and security in the Gulf of Guinea. Together, France and Nigeria will be able to work towards greater internal and external security for this West African State bordered by the Gulf of Guinea and several states in my constituency. I am thinking in particular of Niger, which shares a border with Nigeria. For the Liberties and Territories Group, this agreement is necessary because it will bring legal security to our military forces in the region and will give official status to France's strategic partnership with Nigeria. But beyond its legal interest, this agreement has a significant political interest, linked to the influence of France in this region of the world, an influence that can also be exercised through space activities, a sector that is of particular interest to Nigeria and in which France is at the forefront. Nigeria is one of the African States that have embarked on the space race. In 2011, it launched the first satellite designed and built entirely by Africans. It also aims to send a Nigerian into space by 2030. These dreams of space conquest become a reality that our country can support. Space technology can address the security challenges facing Nigeria through surveillance of its porous borders and the movement of terrorist groups. In this area, a closer partnership between France and Nigeria can be mutually beneficial. It is not for me to say that space activities are the only effective response to terrorism; but they are an indispensable complement to the various actions undertaken by Nigeria and its partners. Thus, in military matters, they are part of a combination of activities in airspace and outer space, with activities on the ground – I am thinking of intelligence, territorial control, traffic surveillance. That is why I hope that this agreement will open the door to further cooperation in the field of military space with Nigeria. Ladies and gentlemen, security in Nigeria is a major issue for this country, for Africa, but also for Europe and France. I am thinking in particular of immigration. Insecurity is one of the factors driving African women, men and children to seek a better future across their borders. For some of them, this quest stops in the immensity of the Sahara, which sees their bodies exhausted disappear in whirlwinds of sand. For others, this flight to hope ends in the waters of the Mediterranean. Few find their Eldorado. Several thousand Africans are now buried in the Mediterranean; It has become a real cemetery. To support the stability of the region in the face of terrorist threats, to support African countries in their desire to ensure their own security, is also to enable the harmonious development of Africa, enabling African youth to build their future there. It is also in this that this Convention is important and that we support it. As Seneca said, "there is no favorable wind for those who do not know where they are going."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u43	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u44	Nigeria knows in which direction it wishes to go: that of the return of African civilizations "beautiful, worthy and fraternal", as Aimé Césaire said. The Libertés et territoires group, deeply humanist, hopes that France will accompany Nigeria on this path, which looks long and steep, but with hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u45	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u46	We all remember Boko Haram's kidnapping of the 276 high school girls in Chibok in 2014. At the time, the abduction shocked the international community. But until France took the lead in the response, nothing happened. President François Hollande was forced to convene a summit in Paris for the first time bringing together the countries bordering Lake Chad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u47	It's good to recognize him! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u48	From this conference there emerged the first major military cooperation between France and Nigeria: I am referring to the Multinational Joint Force, the FMM. That force exists. It comprises five countries bordering Lake Chad: Benin, Cameroon, Niger, Chad and Nigeria, four French-speaking countries and one English-speaking country. She fights and wins against jihadism. On 10 March, it reported that it had killed some 40 terrorists during two clashes in Niger and Nigeria. Despite military advances, the attacks and insecurity caused by Boko Haram continue to have serious consequences for the people of the Lake Chad region. In fact, the Nigerian State abandoned a whole northern part of its territory to Boko Haram, making it the equivalent of a small Islamic caliphate, exactly the same as the one created by Daesh in the Levant. The Force is now suffering from a lack of resources. I myself was able to see this directly on the ground during two visits to the staff, one with our rapporteur. We have indeed seen a clear lack of resources, whether it be amphibious material, long-range transmission or night vision. This force also has the value of fighting radicalisation: the rapporteur Amélia Lakrafi and I had the opportunity to live it live by speaking on radio Dandal Kura, the only Kanouri-language media, which fights and is listened to by the entire population of the region. Today, France is assigning the means intended for Barkhane to support the Multinational Force, but it cannot do miracles: Barkhane's elasticism cannot be extended indefinitely and, beyond the field of intelligence, it has become increasingly difficult to have air support. The debate we have today on the cooperation agreement must therefore encourage us to address the question of financing the international military effort in this region. I would remind you that we voted, through an amendment which I tabled in the report annexed to the military programming law, to strengthen European and international defence financing capacities in countries in crisis, in order, in particular, to ensure their security through their own armed forces. On this point, I think we agree with Jean-Paul Lecoq. Today, we have two tools. Peacekeeping operations are very costly, few and defensive, as opposed to United States aggression; They do not help the national armies. The second tool, the African Peace Facility, has, if I may say so, been the subject of a United Kingdom holding-up, for the benefit of Somalia, which consumes 80 per cent of the funds. It was necessary, but it left West Africa very destitute. France has defended a proposal from the African Union for African peace operations, particularly by regional armies, which are therefore more sustainable and less costly. This proposal, which is based on 20 per cent funding from African Union States, was rejected by the United States. We have lost a battle, but we must continue the war. Beyond Boko Haram, this agreement is an opportunity for a real strategic debate – as many colleagues have said, including Mr El Guerrab. We have many other common security concerns, including maritime issues, but above all the calming of tensions in the English-speaking part of Cameroon, which directly affect Nigeria. The lack of agreement on defence cooperation with Nigeria is therefore a lack of agreement. Nigeria, an economic giant, France's first trading partner, the second largest country hosting international investment, is the country that has no defence relations with us. Political relations do not live up to our common interests. So, of course, we have to move forward. It is not about taking our distance from our friends in French-speaking Africa, on the contrary; It's not about undressing Paul to dress Peter, or the other way around.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u49	[[Smile]] To dress Jacques!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] On the contrary, we must face together, with our French- and English-speaking partners, our common challenges and, today, the challenges of security and terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u51	Mr Jean-Michel Jacques has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u52	As you have understood, the objective of this agreement is to lay the legal foundation for a lasting cooperation in defence with our new African partner, Nigeria, the most populated and richest country in the region. France is a major player in the sub-Saharan region. As you know, at the military level, we are acting in the immediate vicinity of Nigeria, particularly through Operation Barkhane. Since 2014, the wills of France and Nigeria are clear: to forge a real strategic partnership between our nations in order to respond together to the security challenges of the sub-Saharan region. To date, we are facing two major issues. The first is the fight against terrorist armed groups, such as Boko Haram and other al-Qaidist mobilities in northern Nigeria. It is in this capacity, moreover, that the Barkhane force has just provided and is providing ad hoc support to the Nigerian army, particularly in the area of intelligence. The second major issue is maritime security and the capacity of the State at sea in the Gulf of Guinea. This area, rich in fisheries resources and hydrocarbons, is regularly confronted with acts of piracy, but also with wild fishing and water pollution. In 2018, there was an unprecedented surge in piracy in the region. The International Maritime Bureau recorded 201 attacks this year, making the Gulf of Guinea the area most affected by piracy in Africa, even ahead of the infamous Gulf of Aden. This is why France is present alongside its partners, through Operation Corymbe comprising a National Navy building that ensures a permanence at sea in the Gulf of Guinea. This agreement lays the foundations for promising cooperation between our two countries, which will have to go beyond the strictly security aspect. While security is sometimes seen as the first freedom, I prefer to nuance this analysis and highlight the reciprocal link between security and development. Indeed, how can we imagine economic and human development in a region plagued by instability and violence? How can we imagine soothing populations if their basic needs are not met? I am convinced that there can be no development without security or long-term security without development. Our approach must therefore be comprehensive. This was the meaning of the speech of the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou on 28 November 2017, when he made "the commitment to have a France at the rendezvous of the development challenge". As you have understood, it is natural and desirable to strengthen our cooperation with Nigeria, a real gateway to the countries of the Sahel thanks to its 1200-kilometre stretch of road and the port of Lagos, one of the most important in the region. The whole is a real artery, which allows the transit of goods. It is therefore essential to strengthen our ties with Nigeria in order to anticipate the potential destabilizing factors in the region. The European Union has understood this well, since the European Development Fund provides €511 million for Nigeria for the period 2014-2020. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this bill, which will strengthen our defence cooperation with this friendly country by providing it with an appropriate legal framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u53	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u54	With 44 per cent of its 195 million inhabitants living on less than two dollars a day, Nigeria is still one of Africa's hopes: fertile land, ore-rich soil, oil and liquid gas, numerous reserves and natural sites. Today, with this bill, you are seeking permission to engage with Nigeria in defence cooperation. At first glance, this is a very good idea, since these agreements with Africa enable France to fulfil two objectives: while helping these countries to ensure their own security, we are leaving our traditional zones of influence in order to better understand the African continent. While military cooperation contributes to the influence of France, from a diplomatic and strategic point of view, it is clear that these are not the only reasons. Before I trust you, let me clarify things. As Nigeria is one of the countries of Africa with very high potential, we obviously have an interest in making it an ally. According to Lionel Zinsou, French-Benin business banker, "Nigeria has grown 7% over the last eight years, is solvent, has less than 2% of the budget deficit and its debt amounts to 20% of GDP. It has the means to make large investments. The country also has some $43 billion in foreign exchange reserves: this is a boon for France seeking to conquer new markets! While the economic benefits of this rapprochement are undeniable, they are not the only factors behind this new enthusiasm. For Nigeria has also been a country torn apart, for almost twenty years, by ethno-religious wars. On Tuesday, again, the deadly attacks by Boko Haram took 10 people near Lake Chad. Boko Haram strikes, persecutes and turns against the people who turn their backs on him. If the Islamic State from which it originated is dying, its ideas are alive and inspire a pool of terrorists who can strike at any time, in Africa as in Europe. While our cooperation with Nigeria can, in turn, allow us to keep this stronghold of terrorists at bay and to take it away thanks to our forces present in Chad, I am of course in favour of it. And then, of course, let us not be naive: if Nigeria is so important, it is also because it is the most populous country in Africa. However, with growing migration pressure and an exponential demographic curve, Africa is rightly concerned. By 1930, the continent had 150 million inhabitants. Today, the population has increased to 1.3 billion people, 40 per cent of whom are under the age of 15, and tomorrow, in 2050, it is estimated that Africa will have 2.5 billion people, compared with 450 million ageing people in Europe. According to Stephen Smith, 42% of Africans aged 15 to 25 say they want to leave Africa. In other words, if Africa does not find solutions quickly, the demographic pressure will, of course, rise with increased migratory pressure. Contrary to what some say, most migrants come from countries that bring hope to Africa, such as Senegal, Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire, Kenya and Nigeria. As Stephen Smith always says, it is emerging Africa that migrates to Europe, not Africa of misery. As a result, Africa is emptying itself of its living forces, which considerably diminishes its capacity to develop in order to provide its people with acceptable living conditions. Nigeria's exceptional potential makes it a country of prime strategic interest for France, especially as Nigeria aims to be among the top twenty world powers by 2050 – a goal that is quite achievable, since Nigeria is Africa's first oil reservoir. This is an additional reason to start building serious ties with this country. However, I have a reservation, or rather a question: what guarantees will you give us against ubiquitous corruption, especially in the Nigerian army, which, like me, knows that it is cored by terrorists? Our weapons and knowledge should not be turned against us in the near future. For all these reasons, I will vote for the ratification of this agreement on defence cooperation between France and Nigeria.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u55	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u56	With a population of 191 million and a fertility rate of 5.4 children per woman, Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa. Its demographic evolution will make it the third most populous country in the world in 2050, with 410 million inhabitants. While Operation Barkhane is a long-term part of the Sahelo-Saharan band, this cooperation agreement on defence is therefore of major interest. A month after the Nigerian presidential election, which re-elected former General Muhammadu Buhari as head of state, I would like to return to the security environment in that country. In the northern part, competition for access to water and natural resources is fuelling ethnic tensions between predominantly Christian farmers and Muslim nomadic farmers of the Peul ethnic group. But this area also concentrates other frailties. The progress of the 600-metre desert each year and the narrowing of Lake Chad are also factors of instability, so that in 2018, community violence increased in lethality and intensity. In this context, Islamic-inspired terrorism has found a fertile ground for sustainable settlement in the northern and central parts of the country. By causing the death of 11,000 people between 2010 and 2018, it aggravated population displacement. I come to the situation of the Nigerian army. Starting in 2015, the deployment of the multinational mixed force consisting of troops provided by Chad, Nigeria, Benin, Niger and Cameroon caused serious blows to Boko Haram. He contributed to the frailty of the movement, which split between a group making allegiance to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb – AQMI – and another subordinate to Daesh, which became the Islamic State in West Africa. But these recent military successes have sometimes led to an excess of confidence in power, which has repeatedly, and probably prematurely, proclaimed a definitive victory. In reality, Islamist insurgents have demonstrated a real resilience. The local branch of Daesh has carried out repeated offensives against the bases of the Nigerian army, enabling it to recover weapons, ammunition, vehicles and consolidate its arsenal. This branch of the Islamic State is currently receiving the reinforcement of jihadists from the Levant. The persistence of the Islamist insurgency, coupled with banditry in the Niger Delta area, piracy in the Gulf of Guinea and biafran separatism, weighs heavily on Nigeria's defence and security forces, which are forced to disperse their assets. They must also supplement the internal security forces in some territories. As a result, the army is mobilized for recovery and law enforcement missions, causing some staff wear and tear, lower morale and sometimes desertions in the ranks. To alleviate these difficulties, Abuja has significantly increased its defence budget, which now stands at about $1.5 billion. This effort must of course be welcomed, but also accompanied and encouraged. Indeed, the army, together with the paramilitary forces, deploys more than 160,000 men and plans to recruit large numbers in the coming years. Of course, control of the territory can only be carried out with well-trained troops. The Nigerian authorities are already using foreign partners, including special forces. Many military personnel are trained abroad, in Pakistan and in Russia. A defence partnership was signed with Turkey, and the United Kingdom formed Nigerian infantry on the spot. France must now also assist in the formation of the country's armed forces, especially since some French vehicles, such as Sagaie armoured vehicles and light armoured vehicles, are used in the country's arsenal. This partnership will help strengthen our cooperation on equipment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Nigerian army is at the beginning of a long process that must gradually lead it towards real professionalization. In line with our efforts to establish a collective security system with the G5 Sahel countries, this military cooperation agreement is fully consistent with France's objectives in the region. I can therefore only invite you to vote for its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u57	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u58	Before I consider this draft defence cooperation agreement with Nigeria, I would like to pay a double tribute. First of all, a tribute to the fallen women, men and children around the world, victims of violence perpetrated by armed groups or fanatical and fearful individuals. I am thinking of the victims of the attacks that have been bloody Mali for months, in particular those in Ogossagou, but also the victims of Christchurch in New Zealand. I also pay tribute to the women and men who work far from their families to protect and rescue the civilian populations affected by violence and disasters: I mean our soldiers. These men and women carry out the mission entrusted to them by political power at the peril, and sometimes at the price, of their lives. We know what we owe them. We owe them recognition and protection. We must not believe that they are invulnerable and resort to them at any time, anywhere, without discernment. Our first duty to them is to propose a political vision that gives meaning to their commitment and allows us to transform the tactical victories they have won and will win into lasting peace. From this point of view, the political authorities are failing. It is essential to agree to see it and to say so if we are to remedy it. The notion of "war on terrorism", borrowed from American neo-conservatives and still too often referred to, has put us in a stalemate. There are two main reasons for this. The first is that we are not waging war on a process, but on an enemy. To give oneself a vague objective is to be unable to recognize a victory and declare the end of an operation. The second reason for failure is that terrorism is fundamentally used to serve political purposes. In fact, the military response is necessarily very partial and not sufficient alone. It is an endless work if we do not question the root sources of violent action and the objectives it aims to achieve. Some may think it's superfluous to do that kind of reminder. However, recent facts prove the opposite. While it is essential to take stock of France's military commitments in Africa, particularly in Mali, every effort is made to prevent it. I would remind you that the Group of the European People's Party asked for this assessment from the beginning of our legislature. We also asked for this in the debates on the military programming law, but our efforts have been unsuccessful. The idea of collectively reflecting on recent history has been rejected with disdain by the majority. A few days ago, researchers were prevented from making their thoughts public. The publication of the dossier devoted to Mali by the journal Afrique contemporain, edited by the Agence française de développement, was rejected sine die. In the opinion of the editorial staff, this would be no more than censorship. How can I say otherwise? In principle, that is unacceptable. This defence agreement with Nigeria is fully in line with France's policy in Africa since the intervention in Libya. Certainly, who would wish to speak against the principle of cooperation with a State such as Nigeria, which met the demands of democracy better than many others? But the imprecision of this text and its unsaid ones have cause for concern. Article 4 lists the areas of cooperation envisaged, but a statement in parentheses makes it clear that this list is "not exhaustive". It is therefore a blank cheque that we are asked to sign to the Government. However, the Government has shown that it has little to do with our Assembly, particularly when it comes to defence and Africa. Should we recall that just a month ago, the Prime Minister issued an order to use force in Chad to help Idriss Déby's dictatorship? However, the Government had refused any debate on the matter. A letter from the Prime Minister – exactly three lines – put us before the fait accompli. Mrs Parly and then Mr Le Drian made a brief presentation, one before the Defence Committee and the other before the Foreign Affairs Committee, but we were not allowed a debate, let alone a vote in the Chamber. However, the legal basis for this intervention in Chad is extremely fragile: the agreements that bind us to Chad do not provide for French troops to operate there in the service of the Government. The political basis of these strikes is even more questionable: how can we claim to work towards the pacification of a region so gravely, widely and deeply destabilized by putting our weapons at the service of a bloody despot like Mr Déby? We have an interest in the establishment of peace on the African continent, but the struggle for lasting peace is doomed to failure if it is carried out unilaterally and in disregard of the political principles that the Republic professes. These principles that make up our motto, we want them, we know them universal. However, whenever we use them to distort the real meaning of the decisions taken by the Government, we become hypocrites, our credit diminishes and the confidence in relations between people and between peoples disappears. We are still moving away from the horizon of peace and security. That is why truth and transparency are essential to the achievement of our objectives. Cabinet diplomacy is, in fact, not very different from corridor diplomacy. The secret in international relations can only reconcile the friendship of dictators: it does not allow for the mobilization of peoples or the opening of prospects for peace. As Jaurès said, we must have the courage to seek the truth and to say it. Perhaps the right side of the House would prefer me to refer to Péguy, who urges us to make the effort to agree to see what we see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u59	She's not here, right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u60	What is there to see? An almost complete political failure. He has many causes. France is not responsible for all the evils that afflict West Africa, but finally! Successive governments have, to say the least, acted lightly. The war in Libya, first of all, was a terrible deflagration. It has undermined the credibility of the United Nations. It has turned this country into chaos and civil war. It has reinvigorated armed groups of bandits and mercenaries. It has spread tens of thousands of weapons throughout the subcontinent. It has paved the way for the most abominable trafficking, such as slavery, and has provided an anchor for jihadist terrorism. In Mali, where I visited a month ago, we still face the consequences of this terrible mistake every day. All official interlocutors agree: the situation is worse than before Barkhane. It is no worse because of Serval and Barkhane; She's worse in spite of the efforts we've been asking our soldiers. While the northern part of the country was the landmark of armed groups, the centre of Mali is now destabilized. Border countries are infected with this multifaceted plague. Armed groups have swarmed. Burkina Faso and Niger are terribly weakened. The Malian state is not restored. The G5 Sahel, presented as a political-military panacea, an example of integrated regional cooperation, is still not operational. What is its relevance, in fact? Why five, not six or seven states? Why it and not the existing regional organization, the Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS? Why rely primarily on countries that violate human rights, such as Mauritania or Chad? Is it not a question of credibility or independence to make Saudi Arabia one of its main donors? These issues have never been dealt with in the open. I hope that in the offices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the General Staff and the Elysée we have robust answers, but I am not sure. Recently, it appears that the limitations of the exclusively safe approach have been recognized. The 3D doctrine is on the agenda: diplomacy, defence, development. Good time! It is no longer claimed that peace can flourish on the earth of misery. Do we believe that it flourishes without democracy? This is the challenge that must now be met. Who among you has an idea of France's budget for intervention in Mali for six years? Fortiori, how many of our fellow citizens have a sense of it? Should we count in tens of millions of euros, hundreds of millions or billions? In reality, these six years of military presence represent, little or no, two years of the Malian state budget, or €3 billion. All over the world, however, poverty, climate change and the instrumentalization of tensions by armed groups make the situation more dangerous than ever. Talking about intercommunal confrontations is a convenient but dangerous shortcut, which helps to bring about what is feared – ethnic conflict – when it comes primarily to access to resources and power. I wanted to recall the terms of the equation in the Sahel, because they are the same throughout the subcontinent, in Nigeria as in all other countries. I have not talked enough about the disasters caused by climate change: the drying up of Lake Chad will have harmful effects that no military action or cooperation will be able to contain. Projecting agrarian or pastoral societies into capitalist modernity, consisting of exploitation, accumulation of goods and predation of natural resources, cannot bring peace – neither to Nigeria nor elsewhere. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq applauds]] It is therefore not possible to ratify this military cooperation agreement without telling us clearly that the Government is ready to review everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u61	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u62	On the single clause of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. ............................................................................................................. I will now put to the vote the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u63	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 23 Number of votes cast 21 Absolute majority 11 For adoption 21 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-29-O1200.u64	Next sitting, Tuesday, 2 April, at 9.30 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
