ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2243, 2187).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u3	More than others, perhaps, the bioethics issue brings together the best of our human consciences. In fact, it is almost a bit unfortunate: are our consciences sufficiently alert, cautious enough, faced with the more daily challenges of climate, health, work, unemployment, inequality or democracy, which each raises serious ethical questions? Nevertheless, the power acquired by humanity over life itself, through knowledge and technology – the human condition thus becoming, in certain respects, reformable – questions in a particular way our common destiny. What can we do with this power, with this superpower and for what purposes? What do we become when we practice it? Here we are faced with dizzying questions, sometimes doubts, in the face of issues of civilization that can engage the future of the human race. These questions, if they affect the intimate, are nevertheless eminently political. They lead us to a single question that underlies them all: how can we respect the dignity of the human person? Contrary to appearances, asking the question is not enough to answer it. And it would be crazy to approach this discussion without saying a word of this fundamental requirement. We know how much it can be undermined by the logics of commodification, instrumentalisation, profit or profitability that seek to insinuate themselves wherever they can. We know how much this requirement can also be called into question by totalitarian, dehumanizing or discriminating approaches. We must make the effort to look at things on the right scale, to take the necessary step backwards and heights, to face issues without bias, to care about all the consequences, having the courage to collectively map the boundaries of ethics. This requires a deep debate, a work of elucidation of meaning. This implies not sticking to a liberal, market-oriented approach, balancing supply and demand. In other words, there can be no bioethics without borders, conditions or prohibitions. Individual desire cannot be sufficient to overcome a rule if it goes against the fundamentals essential to the human community. This reflection must be carried out with consideration for the first concerned, because the subjects are sensitive and, behind the decisions we have to make, there are expectations, desires, and possibilities. The answers are not necessarily in black and white, nor are the contours always easy to trace. Often it is a question of knowing under what conditions the power given to us by scientific advances can be exercised. Neither liberalism nor conservatism are possible options – it would be wrong to pose the problem. The subjects must be resolutely examined with the concern to respect both every human being and all human being, the person as a member of past, present and future humanity. Thus, the scope of the questions before us is broad and the law does not cover it entirely. We probably fall short of the challenges related to the progress of artificial intelligence – AI – applications of big data, transhumanist approaches or the new star war. These are emancipatory potentials, but also what to distort the human, what to undermine our freedoms, what to alter our free development. Powerful engines, driven by private interests in particular, are manoeuvring in all these technological fields. But the human person is the result of a civilizing process of which he is also the subject. So, what humanity do we want to be? Let us not rule out this question, let us not allow the answer to be dictated out of any democratic deliberation. I mean here the need to base the choices that we have to make on coherent and consistent arguments, which take into account the real contradictions. Reproductive medical assistance – AMP – has been developed in recent years for couples who experience difficulties in procreation. It is proposed here to extend the possibility of using it to women's couples and single women who feed a parenting project. We are in favour of that. According to some, it would be a matter of opening up a right to the child. That would be unacceptable if it were, because the child is a person who cannot be chosified. In this case, however, it is a matter of opening not an enforceable right but the possibility of access to possible assistance in his family project. The text does not invent the different forms of parenting that already exist in society. In the name of what to refuse an accompaniment, medical and social, in procedures that we know can be difficult and sometimes fruitless? They do not in themselves violate human dignity or the rights of the child, since parental love is at the root of it. On the other hand, this development is part of a renewed approach to donor-based reproductive health assistance. She calls for a rethink by extracting herself from the expectations of likelihood and assuming the strength of the gift. It must be recognized that parenthood is born of desire and project, is built in the educational and human relationship, is full and complete. These are the origins, not exclusive in fact, far from any biologizing conception of the human being: its development and emancipation are so richer, so less predetermined. This is one of the reasons why we express reservations about the removal of the donor's anonymity, fearing, moreover, that it will turn into a social incentive to ask for it. Anonymity is an indispensable condition of donation. The fact of undermining the philosophy of gift as we know it is not without consequences. In addition to all the possibilities available, in order to preserve the meaning given to the birth, it is necessary to retain two formulas: assistance without a donor when possible, and, where this is not the case, assistance with an anonymous donor. Wouldn't openness to other combinations lead to other ethically risky approaches? As for GPA – gestation for others – which involves the instrumentalization, whether commercial or not, of the bodies of others, it seems to us to seriously challenge our ethical principles. It is therefore not a question of denying the enditude of the human beings that we are, with their individual faculties, and of pretending, but of assuming the fact that society accompanies, in the respectful rules of the human person that it gives itself, the fulfilment of family projects. The provisions relating to filiation must have no other purpose than to establish the equality of the children to be born at the beginning of the law in the civil register. That is why we were defending the establishment of an identical procedure, and you have taken a significant step in that direction. For us, the management of all activities related to reproductive assistance deserves special attention. No market should be able to develop in this area, no profit should be made from it, whatever it may be – and I am not talking here about the fair wage for the work done. It therefore seems necessary to develop the public service in an appropriate manner, including to manage new approaches and data files. That is why we are standing up against the offensive in committee to allow the conservation of gametes by private for-profit institutions. This provision should be removed and the means given to CECOS – centres for the study and conservation of human semen eggs – to do their work in the best possible conditions. The issues we have just mentioned call for ways on which, for the time being, we do not have any tangible assurance. Ethics has a cost, and we must assume it without which we philosophize, which is not useless but is insufficient. Let me say a word about the French Laboratoire de fragmentation et des biotechnologies – LFB – which I am concerned about, as it seems to be planned to bring in private investors. In the meantime, public capacity should be developed in this area. My amendment on this point has been rejected. It will not be discussed, although it is a subject of bioethics which the Assembly should have to know about. I come back for a moment to genetic data, which are now the subject of an international trade that should be worrying. These data are both individual and collective, they are the matrix of the human race. The greatest care must be given to their future and their use. The logics of data ownership, storage requirements and other contingencies pose vast problems, at which time we are not really. As far as research is concerned, which is essential to know, understand and care for, it is of course appropriate to extend its scope only within the limits that we determine, and without giving in to any pressure whatsoever from international competition in this field, if ethics seems to us to be compromised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u4	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u5	In many areas, we have now reached the borders of the questioning of the human species, of the possible modification, by the hand of man himself, of the homo sapiens. Do we really want to create increased humans to replace us? Without going so far, there is the possibility of a more and more general sorting, in which we would arrogate the right to decide who has the right to be born and who must be prevented from doing so. Everything that would bring us closer to this perspective must be ruled out. We know that we are imperfect, fragile, unevenly fragile, and rich in our diversity. It is to this humanity that I want to belong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u6	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u7	I mean, I want to tell you about a doubt. With every bioethical law, the emergence of the possible, which is not always driven by humanism, is shaking us. Some view bioethics law as the western border. We must take the best of these possibilities while being able to resist the accelerations which seem inevitable and whose dangers we measure. The stakes are not thin. We must rise to the right level, remain masters of our future as much as we can, masters of the future of the human race. I have said what I believe today, I have said it with humility and sincerity, as I always have at heart to do, perhaps with more care still today. From birth, from life, from sickness, from death, that it be furiously forbidden to trade. And that the human is always at the highest level respected. To do this, with the experience of collective appropriation to which bioethics and the experience in which we are called, I call to broaden its scope – that will not surprise you. Humanization of humanity is a great purpose. Do we look sufficiently in the face of the anthropological crisis that is holding us, this crisis of meaning, of the imagination and of the common? This crisis has to do not with freedom and love, but with the little care that we take, knowingly, of each and every one and the links that unite us, in the development and human creativity prevented. "Man is the world of man," Marx wrote. For Lucien Sève, who was the first philosopher, a member of the National Ethics Advisory Committee – CCNE –, "respecting man is not to cling to any natural or social status quo, it is to act with vigilance and boldness for his greatest human becoming." [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups. – MM. Dominique Potier and Thibault Bazin also applaud]] We can – this conviction makes my veils beat – get out of the ruts where capitalism maintains us, where we block patriarchy and where we lock up racism, to create conditions conducive to the free development of each and every one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u8	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u9	Ethics and politics: these are two terms which, associated, seem contradictory, because the first seems to mean private, and the second, public; because the first seems to refer to the individual, and the second to the community. However, we are all together, ladies and gentlemen, because the intimate is also political. Few laws force us to look at the definition of our society and the contours of humanity. I welcome, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are about to consider, including section 1, with new rights for women. Finally, it takes into account the plight of thousands of women who are forced to resort to harmful practices for themselves and their children because of unjustifiable discrimination. I am proud to belong to the majority who finally recognizes the existence and rights of all families in their diversity. Yes, women's couples and single women will be able to safely carry a parenting project. In this way, we intend to reaffirm the right of women to control their bodies, motherhood and lives. The LDC – medically assisted procreation – for all is not annoid or anecdotal because it would concern only a small number of women. On the contrary, it is a strong gesture, a new right for women, an additional step in their emancipation. Because I chair the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women in the National Assembly, it was with a feminist prism that I studied this text and held a speech of encouragement, not devoid, sometimes, of vigilance over certain articles. My vigilance relates in particular to Article 21, to which several members of the delegation have chosen to submit an amendment aimed at restoring, for the articles of the Public Health Code on the IMG – medical interruption of pregnancy – the reference to the conscience clause specific to the IVG – voluntary termination of pregnancy. Indeed, we do not understand why, by completely rewriting section L. 2213-2 of the Public Health Code, the bill removes current references to the fact that the rules applicable to the GVI with respect to the conscience clause also apply to the GMI. Why want to introduce a new awareness clause specific to the IMG that would create a parallel and potentially less protective regime for women's rights, even though the delegation wondered about the relevance of this double clause and that it was again pointed out at the hearings of the Special Committee? The fruitful body of women is firmly at the heart of bioethics issues, but it did not take them to be a political object. Reproductive rights or maternity injunction: too long women have not had control of their bodies, social control and medical supervision. That is why I am very committed to the fact that this text and our debates do not contribute to conveying an archaic and caricatureal vision of women, by virtue of which they would not be able to make free and enlightened choices, nor to exercise their free will. If women fight for the control of their own bodies, it is to become actresses of their own lives and thus prevent certain behaviors from being lent to them and decided in their place. In Françoise Giroud's words, "femininity is not an incompetence. Nor is it a competence." So let us not spread a suspicion of vulnerability to women, especially when it comes to dictating the conditions of their motherhood, the one they have chosen. Let us ask ourselves the right questions: why should a single woman have access to GPA techniques with third-party donors and prevent a woman who has lost her husband in the middle of a path of LDCs from completing it? Of course, this is a complex decision, which must question the consent and revocation of the death penalty, but not the free will of women. Finally, I would like to welcome the possibility that has been opened up, for both women and men, to keep their gametes for themselves outside of any medical grounds. It must be seen as a step forward for more and more women to observe a growing gap between the time of fertility and that of the parental project. The self-conservation of gametes will give women a new mastery of their motherhood: choose rather than undergo. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is with this feminist gaze that I invite you to study this text, with this will that it is more than progress for women, freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u10	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u11	Defending a cause that is believed to be right, having convictions and assuming them: that's why I decided to run for local elections a few years ago in my small village of Étouy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u12	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u13	Today, despite the gap between me and the government and the majority in this House, I have chosen to support this bill, because it bears the seeds of values that shape my daily struggle: universalism, fairness, altruism. Far from the philosophical quarrels that this subject can bring, I am above all a pragmatic one. I refuse to keep my eyes closed in the face of these complex and growing situations. At present, when single women or couples of French women wish to become parents, they are forced to leave because of our restrictive legislation, with the risks and consequences involved. They visit one of the 14 European countries that have opened the LDC to women's couples, or one of the 26 Council of Europe member countries for single women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u15	Having to travel several hundred or even thousands of kilometres to join foreign countries such as Belgium, Denmark or Spain, these women spend several thousand euros in order to carry out an artificial insemination that will offer them, if it works, the happiness of being parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u17	These LDCs are effectively creating administrative inequalities and complexities, which would be mitigated by legislation. This discrimination had been denounced in the context of a manifesto published in Le Monde in March 2016 and whose first words were: "We doctors, biologists, recognize that we have helped, accompanied certain couples or single women in their project of children whose realization is not possible in France". In this manifesto, signed by a collective of 130 doctors led by Professor René Frydman, these health professionals claimed to have challenged a discriminatory law in order to help these unmarried women have children in France. It is becoming urgent to legislate rather than allow this legislative blurry around these births abroad to persist. How can our country resolve to forget these "phantom children of the Republic"? Their legal status must finally be recognised. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This bill, since it provides that the extension of the LDC to all women will be taken care of by social security, effectively ends a situation that must no longer be allowed in a country like ours. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and LaREM groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group. Mrs. Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] Some are offended on the grounds that this would not be an illness. I will answer them with a simple question, perhaps shocking: should we go back to the reimbursement of the pill or the IVG? The answer is no: society is changing, the family too. Don't disappoint the advocates of the equation, according to which a child equals a father plus a mother, it turns out that the family is no longer a patriarchal social institution, it is the place of a free and voluntary agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u18	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u19	All opinion polls show that the vast majority of our citizens are in favour of extending the LDC to all women. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, SOC and LaREM groups, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] This text is therefore perfectly in line with a progressive evolution of mentalities and responds to a real concern for freedom, equality and fraternity among all citizens. The challenge is simply to recognize this form of parenting, without discrimination. When a parenting project manifests itself in the head of a couple, whether heterosexual or not, a scale of desire or suffering is not to be established. Parentage is not natural: as with adoption, the legitimate parent is not the parent, but the one who has the child's project, who welcomes him, educates him and loves him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u20	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u21	In addition, I will vote in favour of this law, since it will now allow France to freeze its gametes, both for men and for women, without any medical reason. Once again, this represents a major step forward that goes hand in hand with the evolution of our society, especially for women who, increasingly pressed by their biological clocks, must be able to delay their motherhood and thus control their fertility, in order to be able to become mothers at a time that they consider more appropriate for them. In general, I believe that this bill to revise bioethics laws is a step in the right direction. It responds positively to societal developments desired by our fellow citizens and is in line with the favourable opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Committee. However, I remain vigilant on several points of this bill that could maintain discrimination based on sexual orientation, which would not be included in this bill. How could it be justified for some women to benefit from advances in reproductive medicine and not others? In terms of principles, that is impossible. There should be no criteria for distinguishing between those who may resort to it and those who are deprived of it: these are the egalitarian implications of the principle of reproductive freedom, made possible by previous feminist conquests. [["Congratulation" and applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LaREM groups, as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, I would like to recall how these societal issues transcend political parties and I very sincerely regret that the majority has chosen to lock oppositions in such a binary way. I refuse to be locked in a particular right. On the contrary, I would like to defend another word. In supporting this bill, I have felt – I must admit – pointed and sometimes even marginalized, but I will always refuse to flout my convictions to please a camp or to seduce an electorate. Let us all get out of our partisan divisions, make this law a fair and fair law, faithful to our republican and progressive ideals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u22	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u23	Eight years have passed since the last bioethics bill, eight years of medical, technological and biological progress, which has infused into our society by expanding the scope of possible. The text, which we are considering today, aims to take these developments into account and to establish the necessary limits to achieve a balance between what science makes possible and what is desirable for our society. Finding such a balance is not easy. It is incumbent upon all of us to make every effort to bring us closer to it, based on the principles of equality and dignity that constitute our right. The many insights provided by the witnesses interviewed and the three ministers present throughout the committee discussion were useful and informative. Thank them for that. I would like to welcome, on behalf of the MODEM Group, the very high quality of the discussions held in the Special Committee two weeks ago. All opinions, doubts and questions could be heard and discussed. Our Assembly has been able to be worthy of the issues raised by this text: it must be stressed. Let us therefore beware that the three weeks of public examination continue the constructive spirit that emerged from the hearing cycle and from the work in committee. This text is both dense and multiple, in that it covers a wide variety of topics. While public opinion has crystallized its attention to the extension of the LDC to all women, many other subjects seem just as important, as those relating to the conversion of scientific progress and discoveries – very fast – into our law. Some of the major advances in this bill are insufficiently mentioned. To be precise, I am thinking of articles to promote scientific advances in embryonic stem cells, while laying down clear limits and strict framework. Our country has safeguards that are robust enough to allow for ambitious and ethical research. On the basis of this fact, also established by our distinguished colleague Philippe Berta, I would like to highlight the issues of neonatal screening and pre-implantation diagnosis. The status quo does not seem to us to be the most relevant option in this area, given the therapeutic and medical potential – I stress these terms – that are available to healthcare professionals. As we have done in committee, we will defend amendments whose aim is to provide more information, both to the medical profession and to the parents, without it drifting towards any risk of manipulation. I repeat, our ambition is in two words: to detect and diagnose – nothing more but nothing less. Since the beginning of the legislature, the MODEM group has been working to put health prevention issues at the heart of public debate. However, if this text gives priority to the treatment of infertility, it does not offer anything, or little, to prevent it. However, we know that age and many environmental factors play a major role in reducing fertility, both female and male. The numerous hearings have demonstrated the low level of knowledge of our fellow citizens – especially the younger ones – on this crucial issue. The subject of infertility prevention has therefore been raised with amendments tabled in a special committee and has generated a very broad consensus. Our group welcomes the fact that all the political groups have pooled their intelligence in order to arrive at a trans-party proposal for measures to be taken on information and awareness-raising on infertility. Thank you all! Finally, this text addresses the issue of the framework for artificial intelligence. We will now have to get used to legislating on this technology, which is rapidly developing. While it gives rise to much hope, both in terms of epidemiology and public health, it can be dangerous and even intrusive. Misused, it inevitably leads to drifts, as in the United States, where health data become one commercial good like another, without the patient's interest being taken into consideration. Our country must protect itself from these risks now, by strengthening the arsenal of guarantees offered to our fellow citizens, so that artificial intelligence develops with respect for the rights of everyone. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will participate fully in today's debates. We will, without a doubt, sometimes have opposing opinions, but we will have to remain worthy. Our group will have only one watchword: respect, respect for all opinions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u25	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] ...the dignity of everyone and the dignity of republican law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u26	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u27	Eight years after the 2011 Act, this House is considering this bioethics bill. It is important to recall that France has a particular model in this field,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u29	...since bioethics legislation needs to be reviewed every seven years. This method of reflection differs from what can be observed in other countries, particularly in the United Kingdom and Germany, where there is no comprehensive law: the texts concern a particular subject; They do not allow for an overall reflection on bioethics, as we do today. This new bill is part of a particular context, given the increase in biomedical knowledge and the considerable acceleration in the pace of scientific progress over the past few years. Because the field of bioethics involves problems with complex issues, with the confluence of science and our conscience, this text raises, like all those who preceded it, many questions: is any scientific progress a progress for man? How to articulate the consideration of individual desire with the definition of a collective vision? What should be the place of medicine in the consideration of these individual desires? I also welcome the work of the Special Committee: its discussions have been very enriching and it has already decided on several points. The text before us today, therefore, contains a great deal of progress. To sum up the debate that we are beginning, I shall cite two men, each forerunner in his time, one pretending to respond in echo to the other four centuries apart. In 1532, in Pantagruel, François Rabelais wrote: "science without conscience is nothing but the ruin of the soul." Then Albert Einstein said, "Science is a powerful tool. The use we make of it depends on the man, not the tool. » It is on the basis of these questions that the debate that will be taking place in this House over the next two weeks begins. We could sum it up as follows: how can we take advantage of the advance of science and the progress it brings, while inventing a regulatory model that is sufficiently robust to frame new techniques? Let me turn to the specific provisions of the bill. The main objective of the programme is to extend the LDC to include women's couples and single women. The Socialist and Related Group is in favour of this. We will also make a number of proposals to strengthen this right, which are the subject of amendments that we have tabled. The first is to allow the post-mortem LDC. We consider that it would be legitimate to allow a widowed woman to continue the parental project initiated with her deceased spouse. Indeed, how can we open the LDC to single women and deny a widowed woman the continuation of her project?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u31	How can we ask a widowed woman to give up the parenting project with her deceased spouse and make her pursue it with a third-party donor? We then ask that the gift directed to women's couples be authorized. Your bill tends to make use of the double donation of gametes, that is, the possibility for a woman to receive a sperm donation and an egg donation. Therefore, it would be desirable for a woman to be able to receive oocytes from her companion, rather than using oocytes from a third party.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u32	Absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u33	The extension of the LDC to include women's couples and unmarried women raises the issue of filiation as a corollary. Rather than extending the current common law to women's couples and single women, i.e. consent to the gift registered at the notary, you had chosen, ladies and gentlemen, to create a new procedure for the recognition of filiation specific to women's couples, the "early declaration of will", made before a notary, with mention on the full birth certificate. In the Special Committee, several of us considered this to be a discriminatory concept of filiation against women's couples, since two procedures for the recognition of filiation would have coexisted: one under ordinary law for heterosexual couples, the other under derogation for women's couples. Finally, in the face of the criticisms raised by this choice, you have partly reversed the path, proposing a new procedure for the recognition of filiation for women's couples. While this new procedure is an improvement on the advance declaration of will, it is not entirely satisfactory, since it is still a procedure which differs from the ordinary law. Another topic addressed by the text is access to origins. The draft law will provide all children from LDCs with third-party donors with access to their origins. Once they have reached the age of majority, they will be able, if they so wish, to obtain non-identifying or identifying information about the donor. Again, the Socialist and Related Group will defend several proposals to strengthen this right, including the possibility of extending the transmission of non-identifiable donor data to recipient parents who request it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u35	Your bill also opens up the possibility of self-conservation of gametes for women and men, without the need to provide a medical reason. Based on the impact assessment, the minimum age for women should be 32 years. We support the measure while proposing to extend it to all major women. Indeed, many women suffer from pathologies, such as endometriosis or premature ovarian insufficiency, which can occur very early in a woman's life. However, while current law allows for the conservation of gametes for medical reasons, these women are too often denied this possibility. Therefore, if gamete self-conservation is opened from only 32 years of age, many women may be excluded from the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u37	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u38	On the other hand, the bill is intended to facilitate research on embryos and embryonic stem cells, while creating two separate regimes, because the issues are not the same. It also limits the duration of cultivation and conservation of embryos. From now on, a researcher will only have to declare his research protocol in advance, when he was previously required to apply for an authorisation from the Biomedicine Agency. We support this measure. Finally, the bill deals with pre-implantation diagnosis, the famous IPR, a technique that consists of analyzing an embryo before implanting it in the uterus, to determine any anomalies. The DPI was authorized by the Act of 29 July 1994 only for couples with "a high probability of giving birth to a child with a genetic disease of particular gravity recognized as incurable at the time of diagnosis", a provision which was not amended by the Act of 6 August 2004. So far, unless we make a mistake, this practice has not led to any drift. However, thanks to advances in science, it is now possible to determine the viability of embryos or the risk of miscarriage. However, the law does not permit examinations to be carried out for this purpose. By an amendment, we will therefore propose to extend the IPR to chromosomal aneuploidies – anomalies in chromosome numbers – under conditions set by decree. This would reduce the rate of miscarriage and medical interruption of pregnancy. [[Applause on the SOC benches as well as on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I have indicated in the preamble, thanks to the intensive and enriching work of the Special Committee, the text has evolved, in our opinion, in the right direction. Of course, we hope that the amendments that we have tabled will be adopted, but whatever the outcome of our work, the Socialist and Related Group will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u39	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u40	In this general discussion, I would like to pay tribute to those without whom we would not be gathered here today to debate and vote – finally! and by a very large majority, I hope – the restoration of a right or, at least, a part of a right. I want to pay tribute to the combatants of equality, dignity and pride in being who we are, who we are, without fear, without shame, without embarrassment – the dignity and pride of living and loving, equal and equal in our common humanity; to lesbian, gay, bis, trans, intersex, queers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u41	She's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u42	... to women who are said to be "alone", with an air of pity, because they are not married, whereas in reality they are often the strong links of countless networks of solidarity. I want to pay tribute to all those who do not return to the squares where a narrow vision of the world tries to lock them up, whose very existence is sometimes, on its own, a daily struggle, and whose victories do not only benefit them, since they advance the whole society by pushing further the chains of oppression and alienation. I want to pay tribute to all the families who have certainly not waited for our permission to love each other, to compose and to recompose each other, outside the imposed schemes; to exist simply, to live, in happiness and joy, the failures and successes, the happiness and misfortunes of everyday life. I want to pay tribute to the associations and collectives who, for decades, bill after bill, government after government, giving up after giving up, debate, argue, demonstrate to affirm the right to love – or not –, to marry – or not –, to have children – or not; the right to live, in the body or identity of one's choice. So that loving a person of the same gender or gender, or being anywhere, in the middle or outside of the male and female, is not a contraindication to parenthood. I want to pay a tribute to them all the more strongly and supported because it is not, as I said, the battles of a small number; These are the battles for the free and equal society to which we aspire, battles for all of us and all of us. Today and over the next three weeks, this assembly will therefore finally debate – it was time – and vote for the restoration of a universal right, which exists in many countries without creating a major anthropological rupture. These parliamentary discussions come after years of citizen mobilization, associative, political, scientific; years of research, analysis, studies, in which all points of view were heard. But these have not always been issued from the same positions of power and privilege, nor with the same force. Above all, these views have not all had the same consequences for the people concerned. They were already denied their rights; Moreover, the moulting, renunciation and political instrumentalizations that have punctuated this process have fueled and even legitimized insults, attacks, stigmatizations and discrimination against them, their children and their families. Even today, some of the terms used in our debates and relayed throughout media stations work as triggers of unbearable symbolic violence. In the coming days and weeks, more than ever before, it will be our duty, as parliamentarians, representatives and representatives of the people, of all the people, to be exemplary in the conduct of our exchanges. To the defenders of equality – many among us, I believe, as in the rest of the country – to the citizens of justice, to the activists and activists against all discrimination, it will also be necessary to draw strength and courage from this moment. For the fight is not over: in the current state of the text, for example, the mode of recognition of filiation for couples of homosexual women remains discriminatory; Trans-persons remain excluded from the universal right to reproductive health assistance; The protection of intersex children against mutilation is not yet fully implemented. And beyond this text, more generally, other rights, new rights remain to be conquered. At the end of this debate and of our vote, I believe we will have done a joint work; We will have taken a step, certainly small, still too small, but still advanced, in the sense of history, the great and beautiful history of human emancipation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. Ms Pires Beaune and Mr Hutin applaud]] And to give us courage in the long way that remains to be traveled, I will end with the words of the Afro-United States poet Audre Lorde – a black woman, lesbian, equality activist and mother of family. In Sister Outsider, a dense and intense collection of her essays published between 1976 and 1983, she confides: "When I look at the future, I think of the world that I ardently desired for my daughters and sons. I'm thinking about the survival of species: I'm thinking about life. True, there will always be women who will walk with women, women who will live with men, and men who will choose men. I work for a time when women with women, women with men, men with men will work together to build a world where no one will sell his soul to get dedication, beauty, or love. And in this world, we will raise our children so that they are free to choose how to fully thrive. [...] All our children are the promise of a kingdom that is still uncertain. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u43	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u44	France has made a choice: decisions on bioethics are the responsibility of the people's representatives. This is in our view an assertion: we will make political choices here for three weeks of debate. How could it be otherwise, when regulating technical interventions on the human body? We are planning for the future and are protecting progress together. Of course, there are experiences, views, contradictions that go beyond the usual divisions, but the decisions that we are going to make here, without dramatizing them, will have lasting consequences for what we, the human race, will be tomorrow. That is why, in fact, it seems to me so important to stress the relevance of the upstream debate in society, which we could further develop. Let us salute his wealth and affirm how all these subjects that prefigure the world of tomorrow need to be educated in today's world, especially when, at times, tomorrow is already overtaken, or he is knocking at our door. The idea is not to slow down or accelerate progress, it is to take into account, to measure, to protect, to evolve, to move forward. Many issues await us in the coming days, but I want to say that I am excited to finally look at this text. Many argue that the opening of the LDC to all women is not at the heart of this bioethics bill. Maybe; However, it is placed in Article 1. It also certainly explains the delay in its inclusion in the legislative timetable. I would like to pay tribute here to the courage and determination shown by all those, and especially those, who, through their struggle, allow us to vote this fine measure very soon. These women have suffered too many insults and too much invisibility in the debates. We shall ensure every moment that no further insults can be uttered in the indifference of our House. Since I was talking about political choices, I immediately decline the main ones: the right of women to freely dispose of their bodies, the conception of the family as a constantly evolving social construction, the effective equality through the rights associated with it, the protected and secure childhood, the non-commercialization of the human body. I stop at this one, because it is certainly our red line, not that brandy as an obstacle to any progress, but as the refusal of the commodification thought as a prerequisite and as an end, in a world in permanent competition and accumulation, also in conflict, and, in some respects, in dehumanization. Protecting us from this commodification is a little, surely, protecting our humanity. That is why, for example, we will fight the possibility of entrusting to private companies the self-conservation of oocytes, an opportunity given tomorrow to women who wish, freely. It is a fact: our society creates, adapts itself, integrates changes, often long before our laws absorb them. At the beginning of the 1990s, at the beginning of the discussions on the framework of the LDC, it was understood by some that it was not possible to conceive of a donation of semen or oocytes other than adultery. Today, we hear this and that lies, or rather offensive stupidities against the future beneficiaries of the LDC for all, even though three quarters of the French are in favour of it, that three quarters of the French are ready for it. Sociologist Irène Théry recently stated that "since 2013, there has been a legitimation of same-sex couples, and the world has not collapsed." Of course not – but perhaps it is important to remind him. These debates have the merit of shaking our patriarchal model, which allows one to compare the opening of the LDC to a "curse", to the other to speak of women alone as "drug addicts", or to point the finger at a so-called "powerful LGBT lobby". I make my own the words of journalist Mona Chollet: "The idea that women are sovereign individuals, not mere appendices, teams waiting for a trait horse, struggles to make a way in the minds – and not only among conservative politicians. » Yes, it must be said, the discussions on the opening of the LDC are very often tinged with unbearable sexism and lesbianism. How would they not be, even unconsciously, when the main concerned, the first to suffer from discrimination, difficulties in founding a family, are so little listened to, so little consulted? The opening of the LDC to all women is neither the opening up to GPA nor the response to any right to the child, only those for whom this aspiration is already fulfilled. It is an issue of equality and freedom rather than bioethics. Let us agree on the term equality: the opening tomorrow of the LDC will allow all women with a uterus – and thus, in this sense, equal – to have the same access to an ancient medical technique that has been framed for a long time, which already makes it possible to procreate otherwise than carnally, with a gift of gametes. So we have already allowed, through this technique, parents to be allowed, without being the brooders. It's not playing with science, it's not acting as sorcerer apprentices. Our compass must be the child's well-being, his best interests. Today, 60% of children are born out of wedlock: what do we think 90 years ago? What did we think of the children of divorced people fifty years ago, or only forty years ago? Children from the least developed countries already exist; children raised by two women or a single woman, too. They are ultimately no worse, nor better, than children raised by heterosexual couples or in single-parent families. The studies of researcher Susan Gombolok show that the development of children is in no way linked to sexual orientation: it is to the quality of the interactions between parents and children – I sometimes wonder if we really needed such studies to prove it. Equality must also be at the heart of a secure filiation. The opening up of the LDC has required a change in the concept of filiation in our law. It should be recalled that the right does not bind the parentage to the biological origin of the child, but to the fatherhood or motherhood, to the one who loves it, the pupil, the entourage and place it at the heart of a family project. This legal construction is not based on biological principles, but rather on a principle of responsibility towards the child. Thus, in our view, the first version of this text constituted discrimination with regard to civil status in relation to filiation. In fact, he created a different treatment between a heterosexual couple with the gift of a third-party donor and a lesbian couple in the same situation. It was an additional marginalization. Thanks to the support of many lawyers, associations and Members of Parliament, the text has been amended and enriched. I'm very pleased with that. We're not quite at the end of the road. The hearings allowed us to better understand the logic of concealment, in the name of biological likelihood, for heterosexual couples benefiting from a gamete donation. We have made progress in the area of filiation. The opening up of the LDC to all is also part of the protection of women's bodies. Its current limitations lead many women to engage in dangerous practices, such as unprotected sex, purchases of semen outside legal channels, or even artisanal inseminations. The use of the grey reproductive market on the Internet endangers the health of these women and children. This situation also invites us to think about the development of a national campaign for the donation of semen and the donation of oocytes, as there were national campaigns for organ donation. In France, one in six couples has difficulties in designing. This figure is constantly increasing and leads us to consider a major plan on fertility in the near future. I would like to recall how unbearable and insane it is, in a society where the injunction to be a mother is so strong, to see this hope reduced to a whim or to a societal demand! The decision to embark on a LDC course is well thought out; This journey is painful and its failure rate immense. The LDC can be heavy, sometimes it can fracture couples. It is accompanied by its lot of disappointments and suffering, with, fortunately, often, but not enough, at the end of the road, joy, when the child so much desired arrives. For yes, we are talking about the unique desire to have a child, to raise it, to love it. The term "right to the child" is as meaningless as it hurts couples and women in hypofertility. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group. Caroline Fiat applauds]] The lightning that was to fall with marriage for all seems to have remained in the field of love; Again with the LDC for all, the storm will pass away, but the happiness of those who benefit from this progress will remain. It's about time, more than time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u45	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor. I would like to point out that, for non-attached Members, speaking time is strictly limited to five minutes. I will therefore be under an obligation to strictly enforce it, out of respect for the other unregistered elected members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u46	Not to exceed. You get it, Agnes, five minutes and a second, you're dead!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u47	Here we go. France will enshrine in its law the optional father and allow children without a father to come to the world. But who are you, to allow you such mutilation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u48	It's social protection!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u49	Is that to say that a father is useless? Assume to say that a father is not necessary! Assume to say that you owe nothing to your fathers! It is precisely from this society that I do not want, the one that says that it is done on its own, the one that says that the other is not necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u50	It's the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u51	For me, you see, there is no greater than man, and you trample on him, you reduce him to nothing, to his gametes, to 1/60000 e of a millimetre! "A donor," you call that. "That" is a man, Madam Minister, not a donor! He who carries, who lifts up and raises mountains for his little one, he who lifts him up to him, who heals and encourages him, he who reassures and grows him, who listens to and accompanies him; But didn't you ever have one so that you wouldn't know how much of a father we don't do? It's suffering for suffering. It will not be necessary to say: "This France was humiliated". You chose to soothe one by throwing acid at the other. It is suffering for suffering – I assure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u52	Why did you commit to The Republic on the move?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u53	Of course, a mother can do that, a mother can do anything, so what? Is it necessary, then, to remove fathers? That is what you are doing, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that you will one day become aware of the elimination society you are creating. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] I idealize fathers, I'm told, but don't you idealize mothers, while 30% of abuse is due to mothers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u54	Shh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u55	We need to legislate for a social body. By legislating for categories, groups and sub-groups, everyone pulls on his side and that is the law of the strongest: you create the communalisms against which you claim to fight! The child is the privileged witness of man's strength, and when man becomes a father, this force becomes the service of the smallest. He alone can teach it to the child and thus conjures the law of the strongest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u56	What a macho!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u57	And you choose to do it without him! To take from him only what interests you, his gametes, and to throw away the rest! But the man is a whole, Madam Minister, you don't take his gametes until you throw the rest away. There is no more noble than man; Only man shows us that serving is the noblest act that a human being can accomplish. Your text, Madam Minister, is criminal. It's suffering for suffering. It will not be necessary to say: "This France was humiliated". Your bill makes it possible to afford a human being. We don't offer ourselves a human being, minister. A human being is neither an object nor a project nor a campaign promise. [[Protests on various benches. – "Let her speak! » on several benches of the LR and LT groups]] Far from abolishing inequalities, your text worsens them. It raises questions of commodification of the living, eugenics, selection; It involves the diversion of medicine, and unlocks the way to the perfect child's design, as we want. Beyond the terminals, there are no more terminals. It is not the right that denies a child to these women, it is biology; There is no discrimination or inequality, and you know it very well! To assert it over the course of media interventions is to lie and manipulate opinion. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and SOC groups. – "Let her speak! » on several benches of the LR and LT groups]] This freedom so proudly claimed is only a consumer freedom. Some French people have access to a hard-discount that will have to be recognized in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u58	Now! This passage will stay at the INA! He's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u59	We're listening to everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u60	If the LDC, ovocal freezing, IPR or embryo research exist, it is also because they enrich doctors, geneticists, biologists, start-up bosses, lawyers, lawyers, sperm and ova bankers – and you pretend not to see it! Helping the other, you see – but you know – is helping him to accept his limits and live with them. It's not going beyond the human potential. The paternal figure cannot be properly removed on the grounds that new families appear. The production of children without fathers is an infringement of the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u61	She's a psychorigid.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u62	Giving children older parents is not social progress. Giving a single mother for a family is not social progress. This is contradictory with your plan against poverty and with your family support policies – as you know very well – as you know that what is true today is no longer true tomorrow, like love or intention. You know all this, but you give in to a society governed only by its desires, by the desire to know no frustration and to conquer rights to infinity. As if freedom was there – what a lure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u63	Thank you; We have to finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u64	Your arguments deny common sense. On behalf of all the children who have missed a father...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u65	Thank you. I have to turn off the microphone – speaking time is forced. Please, Mrs. Chill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u66	[[Applause from Mrs. Valérie Boyer. MM. Paul Molac, Pierre Cordier and Marc Le Fur also applaud]] ... I have to say...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u67	Let her finish!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u68	It is indeed very important to let everyone speak out. However, each minute of statements by non-attached speakers is taken at the time of the others. That is why I am obliged to enforce the very strict rule that limits your speaking time to five minutes, not only out of respect for the rules, but also out of regard for the other Members who are not registered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u69	His intervention did not shed much light on things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u70	Mr. Francis Chouat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u71	Agnes, come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u72	The bioethics bill we are looking at is part of a long tradition. It is a French specificity, of which we can collectively be proud: because we have had forums for debate and assessment tools, we must, at every stage of the evolution of society, show ourselves to be able to adapt the right to scientific and medical advances and to accompany the transformations of our society, while setting an ethical framework necessary to protect the integrity of our fellow citizens and respecting an unbreakable barrier: the principle of the unavailability of the human body. This mission is absolutely essential, as it refers our country back to its ability to progress without denying its fundamental principles. However, let us not be mistaken: the legislator has no duty to impose a moral order. He is no longer an objector of conscience. He evaluates, consults stakeholders and experts, confronts his ideas with field experience. I, in turn, would like to welcome the quality of the discussions that have taken place in recent months. From the general states of bioethics to the special commission, through the National Ethics Advisory Committee, we have obviously been able to work in serene conditions and in a way that respects the history and beliefs of everyone. In this connection, I particularly thank the Chairman of the Special Committee, the rapporteurs, the Minister for Solidarity and Health, the Minister for Justice, and the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, who have greatly facilitated the preparation of this text. Of course, in the Chamber, politics will take its place; But it would be welcome if what has prevailed so far and which honours parliamentary work, namely respect for individual points of view and the collective capacity to overcome them, were to build together a balanced and just law, respecting our fundamental rights. That's also what politics is about; It's not just polemics or looking for lines of cleavage. Making politics is patiently building a law of general interest that we will bequeath to the generations that will follow us, feeling that we have accompanied the transformations of our society without pre-empting them. Indeed, a law on bioethics is not a law of anticipation. It is not a law that precedes life. Of course, our Assembly's debates will focus largely on extending the LDC to all women. This is obviously a major step forward. As has been said on many occasions, it is the just recognition of their right to dispose of their bodies, together with the reaffirmation of the inalienable rights of the child. However, there are other major issues in the law, which must not be overshadowed by our debates, because they raise scientific, ethical, and even civilizational issues. I am thinking in particular of questions relating to genetic research. There has been significant progress in recent years. Strictly framed to date, research on the embryo and stem cells from a human embryo raises ethical questions to which we must answer in a responsible manner. I also salute the tremendous work done at Évry-Courcouronnes, at the outposts of genomics research and gene therapy, by the teams of Genopole and AFM-Telethon. If more and more research projects require massive amounts of genomic data, in order to answer scientific and medical questions, the use of this data must be supervised, to avoid discrimination and any risk of drift. This law does not establish a right to a healthy child, nor does it provide for all-hazard insurance in genetic matters. This is why it is accompanied by safeguards, particularly with regard to prenatal and pre-implantation diagnosis. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, a law on bioethics is not a law of anticipation. This bill does not allow or encourage the genetic ideal, so coldly described in the excellent film Welcome to Gattaca, where the parents' gametes are sorted and selected to design in vitro almost perfect children. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] If we have been able to get this bill before it is considered in a broad public debate, we can find ways to extend it after it is passed, because it is the only way to ease fears and remove doubts. This text is not a text of tearing, it is a text of appeasement because it gives a place to each and every one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u73	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u74	We have come to the public debate in the Chamber on this bioethics bill. With regard to the method, we deplore the Government's approach to filiation. Indeed, it was at the beginning of the special committee discussion that we learned that the Government had decided to completely rewrite the section on filiation. It is a hijacking of the very spirit of the procedure, which allows the Government to rewrite part of its own text by means of amendments, for in this case it has come back to depriving us not only of the impact assessment – which is normally mandatory for government texts – but also of the valuable opinion of the Council of State called this new version. Let us be clear: there is an unworthy DIY for a text deeply touching on the multi-sacular conception of the law of filiation, which very clearly lays down the principle "mater semper certa est" – "the mother is always certain". Still on methodological issues, it is very curious to see the issue of the fatherless LDC appear in a text dealing with bioethics, which is a subject of society and not bioethics. It would have been much more relevant to present two texts, one dealing with the fatherless LDC and the other with bioethics. This is another point of divergence with the Government. Let's get to the bottom now. The whole text poses serious problems. The opening of the LDC to women's couples and single women gives priority to the omnipotence of children's desire over the best interests of the child. This extension institutionalizes by law and ex ante the absence of the father. Of course, many children are already growing up in the absence of a father or with a father, alas, failing, but this text proposes to cross a new threshold: these children are deliberately subjected to the trauma linked to the a priori suppression of any paternal reference. Another threshold will be crossed by deleting the reference to the mother who gives birth in civil registration, which leads to a return to the famous principle "mater semper certa est", already stated earlier – "the mother is always certain". By also erasing the birth certificate, any biological reference is erased. You play for sorcerer apprentices: considering that the child is above all an object of desire, you choose it. Clearly, the Government is seeking to cross an ethical and philosophical red line. Similarly, the medical criterion of infertility, which today conditions access to the MPA, will be removed. This is another red line that will be crossed. Added to this is the planned authorization of the self-conservation of oocytes for women who wish to do so, apart from any pathology. This entails a risk of commodification. Again, this is a red line. The bill, however, does not end there, since other provisions concern, for example, embryo research or prenatal diagnosis. These measures are seriously contrary to the principle of dignity, which is the foundation of our life in society. With regard to aspects specifically related to bioethics, the Government was moving towards a so-called less ethic. This new revision shows a willingness to break the limits set by the Oviedo International Convention. By creating a human embryonic stem cell research regime separate from the embryo research regime, section 14 of the bill opens the way for human industrialization. Research will, of course, be facilitated by moving from an authorisation regime to a simple reporting regime. During the debate in committee on Article 14, I proposed an amendment which included an explicit ban on any research on artificial uterus. In fact, one of the rapporteurs, our colleague Jean-François Eliaou, had tabled a similar amendment. Unfortunately, they were rejected. This is really something to worry about. France has often been cited as an example for its successive debates and laws on bioethics. Let us never forget that the principles that were founded in France and Europe in this field are, on the one hand, the protection of the life of the human and the weakest, and on the other hand, the unavailability of the human body and the non-marketization of the human body, true red lines. The amendments which we have defended in committee, and which we will defend again here, attest to the fact that we want these safeguards to remain. The law must be as explicit as possible, in order to prevent any risk of eugenics, transhumanism or the commodification of the human body. Unfortunately, the debates in committee have shown that these risks are real because of the ambiguities and the shift towards a genuine, so-called less ethic. We do not want a France where the law simply legalize what the technique makes possible. Bioethics laws must affirm the insurmountable red lines imposed by the great republican principles. It is in this spirit that we will now debate and defend our amendments. I will conclude by saying that in our group, not only the floor but also the vote is free. I think others should be inspired by it. (Applause from the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u75	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u76	This bill, the fourth since 1994 in the field of bioethics, appeals to us all, beyond our political opinions, because it touches on the intimate and our deep convictions, in areas as essential as access to life, descent or gender identity. Since 1994, France has chosen to entrust national representation with the definition of bioethics rules. As previous speakers have pointed out, as can also be seen, this debate is delicate, because parliamentarians must reconcile often contradictory imperatives and decide. We must ignore our certainties and ignore the conditioning that our life, education, religious beliefs or origins often impose on us, in order to understand the general interest, to take into account the extraordinary advances made over the years by researchers and doctors and to try to frame them, in the light of the fundamental principles that govern our society. I can quite understand that, on these issues, our colleagues express – sometimes with a lot of passion – contradictory opinions. Indeed, it is an area in which one thinks in consciousness. However, today we have to observe the progress made in legal matters, as well as in democratic matters, since there has been a very broad consultation and public debate, with consultation of all the important bodies, be it the Council of State or those of civil society. Today, after a broad societal debate, it is up to us to decide, far from the pressures and personal conceptions of each other. As legislators, our mission is to seek the general interest. This is particularly important when faced with scientific advances that can sometimes lead to frightening advances and innovations: the manufacture of chimeras and other monsters is within our reach. We therefore need to respond both to the exponential development of science and to the new demands and new debates that arise in our societies, linked to the progress of science. Many people today want to procreate, while nature, in the past, would not have allowed them to do so. Is this desire illegitimate? No. I believe that, if we have the means to respond, we must do so, while framing these legitimate expectations and new opportunities, in order to take into account the fundamental values of our society and, above all, the interests of children. This text on the LDC is a logical continuation of the discussions on marriage for all, which we discussed under the previous quinquennium, and which had been a way of opening the door to these new possibilities. As Valérie Rabault pointed out, we are of course in principle in favour of the recognition of new rights for women's couples and single women – and that is an idea that we have been defending for a long time. Some say that this is a way of giving birth to children who, without paternal reference, will not be well. However, remember that in the past many women had to accept to raise their children alone, because the father had failed; Fortunately, when these children were raised with love, they are doing very well today. What will change today with the bill, and which may explain some reluctance, is that the situation was previously experienced; From now on, it will be organized by the women themselves, far from the curses that have struck them for centuries. It's a new situation, but after all, why not? It is a way to complete the mastery of the woman on her body, which seems to me positive. We must now move forward with the last remaining discrimination related to sexual orientation. It is good that we have given up the complementary psychological assessment, which was originally planned for single women, and that, as far as the method of establishing filiation is concerned, we are as close as possible to the common law existing for other couples. Other subjects ask us formidable questions, such as medical assistance in post-mortem procreation. The legislator has always refused to allow it; It is true that, for the child thus conceived, the psychological context can be heavy. However, to the extent that we extend the benefit of the LDC to women alone, the logic of the text casts this argument out. How, in fact, do not allow the continuation of the parental project formed by a couple, once the woman is alone? With regard to the removal of anonymity in the donor-receiver relationship, the donor response may be questioned once their identity has been revealed to the child. However, the international texts that we have ratified, in particular the European Convention on Human Rights, recognize the child's right to know his or her origin. It is a fundamental right, necessary for its balance and the preservation of its future personality. We cannot continue in our country to deprive people of their origin, identity and, above all, medical history that can have dramatic consequences for their health and lives. The text therefore goes in the right direction. On the question of cross donation, it happens today that recipients find a donor in their families, somewhere in France, with which they are not compatible. To allow, under the control and after the advice of the Biomedicine Agency, more donations crossed between several pairs of donors would seem to me to be a positive step forward. Nor can we avoid this very tense debate in the committee on pre-implantation diagnosis. Can an IPR be carried out to avoid implanting to a woman embryos with abnormalities likely to favour miscarriages? The bioethics laws of July 1994 allow this practice only in order to avoid the transmission of a recognized genetic or chromosomal disease. Currently well framed, this practice has not led to drifts. We therefore believe that it is possible to allow IPR on cells that do not have the normal number of chromosomes, paying careful attention to their conditions. I know that some believe that such a practice paves the way for a form of eugenics; However, I do not find it reasonable to carry out an implantation – a delicate procedure for a woman – to allow, a few weeks later, a medical interruption of pregnancy on the pretext that the embryo has proved to be the bearer of abnormalities. We must take the step and give the opportunity not to implant embryos that are known to be unviable and will lead to miscarriage. With regard to the distinction between embryonic and embryonic stem cell research, the possibility for researchers to simply declare their protocols, and not to apply for authorisations issued by the Biomedicine Agency after a heavy process, will facilitate research with a real scientific and medical challenge for the coming years. Again, we will have to frame such research very precisely, if we do not want mad scientists to recreate golems. Finally, the debate in committee on the issue of fertility has demonstrated the need to inform young people on the subject. Indeed, more and more women are engaged in working life, which delays the reproductive age and can create fertility problems. National education must therefore take its share of responsibility in that regard. These debates are essential and exciting, but difficult. Our society needs ethics adapted to its time and to the continuous movement of research and science. We need to accompany new rights socially and politically so that we can make the best use of current therapeutic and medical advances, for the benefit of all. [[Mrs Monique Limon and Mr Philippe Berta applaud]] However, we also need to be careful not to leave the door open to unbridled innovations that could affect the dignity of human beings, or even their very quality as human beings. In essence, the text manages to respect this indispensable line of ridge. Our discussions will undoubtedly allow us to move forward and improve this already interesting text, which we are addressing positively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u77	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u78	For twenty-five years now, France has chosen to entrust national representation with the responsibility of finding the balance between what science proposes, what society claims and the fundamental values that support our country's bioethical identity. It is a chance to be able to address such sensitive subjects in complete freedom, respecting our differences, singularities and complementarities. Here I would like to thank all of you for our shared reflections. The text that we are going to examine questions the place that we want to give to the progress of medicine and research for the benefit of the human. It must be noted that, for months, it has generated many debates and questions, which go far beyond the scope. For if bioethics deals with the ethics of the living, by looking out in essence – thanks to the progress of medicine and science – at what is good for the human, it refers us first and foremost to life and our death. In view of the plurality of the interventions, I will mention three emblematic points on which I have made particular progress. Undoubtedly, artificial intelligence in medicine had to find its place in the text. AI is an important step towards fairer diagnosis, optimal care and better anticipation of health risks. The development of so-called four-P medicine – personalized, preventive, predictive and participatory – is fully part of a desirable future. However, the massive use of health data by AI carries with it a certain risk of misuse: it must therefore be perfectly supervised. Moreover, the use of AI should not in any way replace the human, who himself is full of infinite natural healing resources, yet unrevealed. It was time to bring AI into the law; clause 11 of the bill enshrines human intelligence and our free will in the interpretation of results in the case of the use of an algorithm. It is always with this progressive vision of freedom, humanity and solidarity that the best interests of the child are at the heart of the text. In the secret of the alcove is created the child who, on the coming day, needs to know where he comes from to build himself – whatever the configuration of his conception. It is therefore crucial to assert the right of all children conceived by AMP with third-party donors to have access to their personal origins, without flouting the principle of non-affiliation. The child psychiatrists we auditioned agree that if he or she knows where he or she comes from, the child will be easier to build. If this text is not intended to oblige parents to reveal their conception to their children, it will be up to us to ensure that each child is aware of his or her right to know his or her origins. The third point I want to address is a question that is ultimately far removed from bioethics, which is not intended to rule on the law of filiation, nor on parenthood. Opening up reproductive health assistance to all women raises legitimate questions about the boundary between what is possible and what is desirable. The future of the unborn child must prevail. Single maternity homes have always existed and the bill is not there to judge their quality. The parental solo project disturbs for reasons that can easily be understood in the light of prevailing family norms. If all women by birth have the same rights, will the LDC in a single woman-led parenting project not have any side effects on the child who will be the result? In the face of the urgency of the biological clock, is it the role of the legislator to decide by opening up to all the possibility of embarking on the course of the combatant represented by the LDC with third-party donor? Clearly, the many parental issues raised by this bill need to be addressed collectively within an appropriate framework. The Commission on the first 1000 days of the life of the child, created last week at the initiative of the President of the Republic, composed of some 20 experts and chaired by Mr Boris Cyrulnik, has all the powers to define the contours of parenthood in the twenty-first century and thus give every child the same opportunity, regardless of his or her family. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So it is up to us to look at this bill for what it is: an ethical guide that accompanies advances in medicine and science.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u79	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u80	This bioethics bill is not a piece of legislation like any other. We know the sensitive subject and our very different perceptions. We know the text both expected and feared. We know that the philosophical, societal, religious or moral convictions of everyone, of legislators and citizens, weigh in what is both a social debate and a deeply intimate questioning. Even more than usual, ladies and gentlemen, we are asked to embark on the narrow and difficult path that leads to linking a constantly changing society to the law that governs it. To what extent should scientific developments and social practices dictate the law? To what extent should the law govern, regulate or restrain a moving society? These are the questions that the legislator has been trying to answer for some 30 years and on which we are asked to decide again today. Since 1994, laws of ethics or bioethics have followed each other at a regular pace. While the first texts were, first and foremost, prohibition laws, the one that is now subject to national representation seems to me to be driven by a spirit of openness, which is to be welcomed. The bill contains a number of new authorizations, which can constitute as many new rights for all of our citizens. Six years after the Marriage for All Act 2013, this text takes into account recent developments, whether medical, scientific, technological or societal, and proposes, at least in part, answers to the questions they raise. It seeks to open new horizons and to frame rather than close. Among those advances, particular mention should be made of the opening up of the LDC to women's couples and unmarried women. By removing the medical criterion of infertility in order to be able to use the LDC, article 1 of the bill intends to meet a strong societal aspiration. Indeed, according to a recent survey by the French Institute of Public Opinion (IFOP), six in ten French people are in favour of such an extension. This also responds to a distress, that of women forced to go abroad, to Belgium, Spain or Denmark, to resort to it. This will at the same time put an end to the hypocrisy surrounding a situation known to all, and will enable many children to escape from hiding and to grant them their rights, the same as those enjoyed by other children. In fact, the work and hearings conducted by the special committee on the bill have highlighted the fact that there is no study or objective argument to suggest that these children would be less well educated or have less chance of success or development than others. I invite those who have concerns about the future of these children to focus more attention and strength on the fight against social determinism, which, unfortunately, still sclerates a deeply unequal society and dictates the course of individuals, regardless of the sexual orientation of their parents. By providing that the social security coverage of attempts by LDCs is the same for all those who use it, the bill aims to avoid any form of precarisation or inequality that might oppose everyone's willingness to carry out a parenting project. This rejection of inequalities is commendable and we share it wholeheartedly. That is why we would have liked it to inspire the entire text of the Government, not just some of its provisions. By introducing a new method of establishing filiation, called an early declaration of will, exclusively applicable to children born to a LDC within a women's couple, article 4 of the draft law contradicted that spirit of openness and bore in itself the seeds of double discrimination. A first was established between the parents: there was nothing to justify that the method of establishing filiation varied according to their sex. A second was established between children: those born to an exogenous LDC used by a couple of women would have seen the DVA on their birth certificate, whereas those born to an LDC used by a heterosexual couple would not have. Such a solution was unsustainable because it was discriminatory. It was only as a result of doubts expressed during the work of the Special Commission that the Government had decided to reconsider this injustice, proposing that the provisions relating to the filiation of children born to a couple of women be incorporated into Title VII of the Civil Code. However, I am compelled to say that this solution is still not acceptable as it is because a derogation regime remains for women's couples. Indeed, they will have to establish the bond of filiation by using a joint and early recognition of the child before notary. In other words, while the original bill provided for an early declaration of will, the government amendment introduces an early joint declaration of will, which is no less discriminatory. Why, in both cases, does the Government favour a discriminatory and stigmatizing solution against women's couples? It is in complete contradiction with the desire to give them the right to use the LDC, and it is in total contradiction with the spirit of our work and with the evolution of a society that aspires to equality. It's kind of like asking us to create new rights for citizens and, at the same time, stigmatize them for that. When we give new rights, we must assume and defend these rights rather than give wages to those who fight them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u81	Yes! That's the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u82	The question arises all the more since another solution, which would remedy such discrimination, is possible. The Socialist and Related Group has tabled two amendments to this effect. The first is to extend the current right to married couples, so that they have to make only consent to the gift before a notary, as provided for in article 311-20 of the Civil Code. The second seeks to secure the filiation of children born within a couple of women, by extending to women's couples the legal regime currently applicable to couples composed of a man and a woman provided for in article 311-20 of the Civil Code. This would allow two women to sign a post-donation consent before a notary, subject to evidence of the child's filiation relationship with his or her second mother. This would secure the filiation of children who could not be adopted by their second mother if the couple separated before the 2013 law or before adoption was pronounced. Such a solution would secure not only the situation of the parents, but also that of the child, since these families currently have no means of securing recognition of filiation. It would also have the merit of consistency, since article 311-20 of the Civil Code guarantees the establishment of filiation once consent to assistance has been given, but does not prevent it from being challenged if the consent has been deprived of effect or if the child is not a result of reproductive medical assistance. As you can see, there is a solution to secure the establishment of filiation for couples of women who use reproductive health assistance, while eliminating all forms of discrimination and without disrupting the existing law or the legal situation of heterosexual couples. Since there was no fatality in the matter and the solution depended on the legislator, it would be a pity if the progress made in extending the LDC to include women's couples and single women would lead to an unfair and stigmatizing situation for them. On the other hand, if the bill really wants to be an opening text, it must respond to all situations. Let us not have taboos and propose answers to the problems we all know. That is why the issue of the post-mortem LDC needs to be addressed. Not to allow it when a parenting project was under way would, again, create an injustice. If a single woman could use the LDC through the gametes of a third-party donor, what would justify the fact that a woman whose late husband had authorized the use of her gametes could not continue this parental project?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u83	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u84	To close our eyes to this issue would be both unfair, traumatic and absurd. [[Christian Hutin applauds]] What will we answer, ladies and gentlemen, to a bereaved woman enjoined to give or destroy embryos conceived with her companion and invited to continue her journey with a third-party donor? Of course, conditions must be laid down. First, it would require express consent, in order to ensure that the post-mortem insemination was desired and clearly expressed before the notary by the two members of the couple. Secondly, consideration should be given to the period within which a widow could decide to complete the LDC with her deceased partner, or to give embryos to a couple in need of a double donation, or to destroy them. This period may well be two years, as provided for in Belgian legislation. This seems sufficient without being excessive: the widow would have time to mourn before determining her wish. It would also be possible to set the time limit by decree. The Socialist and Allied Group has tabled two amendments so that these two solutions can be discussed. In conclusion, I would like to stress the weakness of a text that does not grasp all the potentials and developments that science offers – I am thinking in particular of pre-implantation diagnostics, IPRs. Currently, it is possible to determine, through a chromosomal analysis, whether the embryos are viable or whether there is a risk of miscarriage. However, the bill allows for such examinations only in the case of families where there is a well-identified serious genetic disease. Using it in a wider way would drastically reduce the number of medical interruptions of pregnancy, miscarriages and the rate of pregnancy of twins, while improving the success rates of in vitro fertilizations, which are very low in France. The Socialist and Related Group will therefore present two amendments to enable such examinations to be carried out. These amendments are fully in line with the philosophy of this text, while remaining within the limits determined by the ethical considerations of our time. My colleague Pau-Langevin has just mentioned at length the question of lifting the anonymity of donors, an anonymity that is much expected by those born of a gift, for reasons of balance. So I won't come back. In conclusion, if the philosophy of this bill is laudable, then if it is to be truly and fully an open text, it would be appropriate to take greater advantage of the potential of science, medicine and technological developments, while respecting the most valuable ethical principles that we all hold. In order to do so, it would be necessary to eliminate the contradictions that the text brought in itself, particularly with regard to the opening up of the LDC to women's couples and single women. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and LaREM benches]] The Socialist and Related Group will therefore be open and constructive during the consideration of this bill, in order to make it a true text of social progress. We will vote in favour of him. Opening up new rights is a pride; Let's take it to the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u85	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u86	Colleagues, we are here to discuss the revision of bioethics laws, the main measure of which is clearly more of a very profound reform of the law of filiation than of a bioethical question, the LDC which has long existed for infertile couples. Today you wish to open this LDC to all women, retaining only the criterion of age and thus removing the main criterion, that of infertility medically observed within a male-female couple. Let me first of all consider that these societal issues should, in our view, be resolved by society as a whole, i.e. by means of a referendum. The referendum allows for a real debate and legitimate decisions taken, especially when the National Assembly, because of the voting method, is struck by a total lack of representativeness of the great currents of thought present in our country. Secondly, I will note that, since the 1970s, all the law of filiation has been marked by the search for biological truth. The disappearance of the irrefragable presumption of paternity of the child born in marriage was followed by many other choices, all in the same direction: broadening the procedures for challenging paternity, seeking paternity, etc. Every effort has been made to facilitate the child's efforts to gain access to the biological reality of his or her filiation. Whether they come from adopted children, born under X, from an unknown father or from a gift, requests for access to their origins from children deprived of their filiation are still so high. They express – we are all aware of this – a suffering and sometimes terrifying search for the answer to the fundamental question that every human being poses: "Who am I? » The reform of the LDC, as presented today, suddenly breaks with this development – this is probably its biggest flaw. It will offer the child a sonage not only improbable, but in fact biologically impossible: you cannot be born of two mothers – at least not yet. It is not for me to make a moral or sentimental judgment about the ability of one or another to raise children. Yes, two women, or two men, can very well raise a child and give him love and attention – but so can two elderly people. How many children have been raised by their grandparents in love and attention? However, your bill does not change the age test. In the same way, no one with a monopoly of the heart, everyone can understand the desire of every man and woman to become a father or mother, regardless of their sexual orientation. Nevertheless, the legislator must provide protection to the child before any other consideration. Instituting a legal lie by inserting in the marble what remains a biological impossibility is not to protect the child or to respect his or her rights. The child is the fruit of a father and a mother, even if that father is unknown, even if that mother wished to give birth under X; and contrary to your assertions, rapporteur, a child is entitled to a father – I will add: even if he does not know him. This truth, we owe it to the children. That is the fundamental reason for my opposition to this text. Of course, there is a great fear, even among the advocates of the bill, that equality considerations will not open up the debate on the GPA tomorrow, the only way for two men to become fathers as well. As for the commodification of the human body, no one here would put his hand to cut that it will not logically follow the vote on this bill, because everyone knows that the shortage of gametes will inevitably lead to their commodification. Whatever you can say, you open Pandora's box. We therefore assume that we do not want the child to be a subject of the "market," a term used in the bill's explanatory statement. Time is short to mention all the worrying developments that this text would open, for example the replacement of biological truth by the expression of a will or a recognition. What about the men recognized as fathers, and on whom, as such, is a contribution to the maintenance and education of a child whom they did not want, who was conceived without their consent? If the intention becomes a constituent act of filiation, then they may use this lack of intention to refuse to seek and ascertain their paternity. In law, this is called parallelism of forms. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] In conclusion, one cannot help thinking that the legislator is playing with sorcerer apprentices without having really measured the consequences of this text on bioethics, filiation, the fundamental rights of the child and the commodification of human beings. This certainly justifies the clear and firm reservations expressed by the National Academy of Medicine, which, despite the disdain shown by the Government, plays a saving role in guarding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u87	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u88	I would like to say how grateful I am to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister for offering us the opportunity, with the opening of medically assisted procreation to all women, to realize a promise of equality. The day has come to consecrate the equal share of dignity of our families and to recognize all those couples of women who are wiped out, who rise every morning to accompany their child to school and come back in the evening to bathe them with love, to all these invisible mothers that society refuses to see, the full and complete place that belongs to them from right to republic. The subject we are dealing with is not an object of cold and medical study. We are talking about families, all these families of flesh and bone, of those 31,000 children raised by homoparental couples, subject to the arbitrariness of life and law – a separation or death that can make these children orphans of mother. I am therefore pleased that this text proposes a method of establishing filiation so as to secure the child's ties with his or her two mothers, through a joint act of commitment and recognition, even before his or her birth. It is a sign of the consecration of a shared parenting project and of a will-based parenting mode. I regret, however, that the solution chosen in committee is merely to create a semblance of equality. I know, ma'am, the seal keeper, how much you've been listening. Thanks to your active participation, we have avoided the pitfall of keeping homoparental families out of the ordinary law. However, I find it a pity that, rather than devoting common parental commitment to all couples using the LDC with a third-party donor, we have chosen to keep same-sex couples on the sidelines of Title VII of the Civil Code. Similarly, I regret that the text does not draw all the conclusions of the expansion of the LDC in relation to filiation. In fact, there are uncertainties about the rules for the establishment of filiation applicable to couples who use the LDC abroad. Other families find themselves trapped in the limbos of the Republic, denied in their existence because of a legal vacuum that deprives them of the rights attached to complete citizenship. I am talking about all these children who will be deprived of a dual motherhood, because they will be born a few days after the enactment of the law. I am talking about all these social mothers, separated from their spouses before the enactment of the Marriage for All Act, who will never be able to adopt or recognize their own children, as if they were erased from the original parental project. I am referring to these women's couples who are prohibited from resorting to the ordinary methods of establishing filiation on the ground that one of them has changed the mention of her sex to the civil status. Do trans people have to pay for leaving the closet at the cost of renunciation of their reproductive capacities and a challenge to their legitimate right to parenthood? The framework of the law must be general, but it must also and above all be inclusive. "To name things wrong is to add to the misfortune of this world," said Albert Camus. Not to name things is to deny our humanity. The law binds us. It lays down common rules and recognizes everyone's place. Excluded from the law, therefore, is to deny the existence of those who do not come within the framework and expose them to a long wandering of litigation and struggle for a regained dignity. For all these reasons, this bioethics bill is also a piece of responsibility and dignity. We must not forget transgender people and once again deny their rights, on the pretext of wanting to conform them to a sexual model, by hindering the self-conservation of their gametes. We cannot continue to close our eyes to sexual conformation operations carried out on very young children by arguing that sexual binarity is the only way to their development. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Since we must, ladies and gentlemen, try to write the law both as exhaustive and as concise as possible, I do not know whether all these subjects can be dealt with here, but it is clear that to leave no one invisible to the law, we will have to recognize and appoint all families very quickly. It's about our humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u89	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u90	This is the fourth phase of the review of the bioethics law. Since 1994, successive texts have constantly made possible and extended all types of practices under the guise of progress – but progress must be approached with caution, for behind the absolute will for progress, sometimes the worst regressions are hidden. We have talked a lot about, or heard about, the LDC and its extension to women's couples and single women, but the text contains other fundamental provisions. The system of research on human embryo and embryonic stem cells has thus changed in less than 20 years from an absolute ban to a supervised authorisation. How can we explain this fulcruming evolution? To say that our conception of ethics has evolved so much in such a short time is far from the truth. It is in reality technical progress and the prospects it offers that dictate these developments. The human embryo is the youngest form of the human being. The vision of France and the resulting French law are based on a humanist conception, an ontological approach to man. In its decision of 27 July 1994 on bioethics, the Constitutional Council enshrined the constitutional principle of safeguarding the dignity of the human person. Recalling that "the embryo is protected under the principle of dignity", Bertrand Mathieu, a State adviser in extraordinary service, specifies that "dignity is conditioned only by humanity from the being it protects" – but from humanity, you make little case when you submit to the national representation a text dictated by ideological minorities. No one has any illusions about the importance of the bioethics market in the future. On the other hand, this obstinacy to promote fundamental research in human embryonic stem cells is poorly understood, even though research on induced pluripotent stem cells leads to equivalent but ethically preferable results. Man must reconcile his thirst for knowledge with respect for certain red lines, which he must not cross. If these red lines are defined by ideology and profitability, and not by common sense and morality, all abuses are possible. It was these red lines that made you back in special commission on the subject of post mortem embryo transfer. This is the illustration, if needed, that to retreat is not to recede. It is these red lines that should push you back when you prohibit the modification of a human embryo by adding cells from other species by not prohibiting the modification of other species by adding human embryonic cells. The embryo is not a asset, it is a being. Therefore, it cannot be disposed of at its convenience, regardless of the justifications that might be put forward. This is the definition of bioethics: to erect barriers so as not to tolerate the intolerable and to preserve certain absolute values. Yet the task is to break down all barriers and put man at the service of science, failing to put science at the service of man. Knowing whether this is good or bad is no longer an issue. Removing the systematic proposal for a period of reflection in case of interruption of pregnancy on medical grounds transforms this act, which is so important in a woman's life, into a formality. All decisions concerning pregnancy, including termination, are delicate and cannot be made lightly. At the very least, they require a period of reflection. As for GPA, do not confront us with trying to make us believe that it is not the next step: the text creates the conditions for the commodification of the human body. The children of tomorrow will be uprooted, without identity, lost in a convoluted filiation of which one cannot be surprised that it causes disruptions in their development, because if one does not know where one comes from, one cannot know where one goes. The child is not a commodity; man is not a machine and does not become better thanks to progress. This text aims to allow for evolution, but a child is no more a right than a commodity. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] Real is distorted to satisfy minority interests at the expense of the community. The negative effects of the text have been demonstrated on several occasions – and most recently, on many points, by the National Academy of Medicine. From an embryonic being that is not respectable, man is promised to become a Grabatary being that will no longer be respected: it is, in the opinion of the experts on the question, the perspective that the text offers us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u91	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u92	It was with great joy that I participated in the special commission to examine the bioethics bill, which we are beginning to discuss in public today. I would like to thank all the members of this committee and all the ministers for their listening, their respect and the quality of our discussions on issues on which the positions should not be binary, but require reflection, humanity and empathy. Thanks to this soothing climate, my point of view on the subjects on which I was wondering was able to evolve in complete freedom and serenity, following the guiding thread of the best interests of the child. Society is changing. Women's couples and single women who use an LDC already exist: they are 2000 to 3000 going abroad every year to implement their project. In order to take this situation into account, article 1 opens the LDC to women's couples and single women. However, as I said during our exchanges in committee, I have some reservations about the authorization of the LDC for single women. It is a matter of reservations, not a judgment, because I am not in their place and, as some may have said at the hearings, they have not chosen to be alone. The question we have to ask ourselves is: does the best interests of the child allow us to deprive him or her of a second parent? On September 17, on France Inter, neuropsychiatrist Boris Cyrulnik said: "What matters is that there are two [...], it is to open the sensory field of the child, so that he learns to love his mother and someone else. » Men and women, let us not forget our human condition, our vulnerability: in case of illness, depression, who will take over? We all have our excesses: who can temper things when they occur? It is for all these reasons that I have co-signed the amendment by my colleague Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe aimed at limiting women's couples to the benefit of access to the LDC. What is essential for the development and construction of the child is that it comes from a common project of two beings, whether it is a woman or a man or two women. It was also essential for the LDCs to comply with the same conditions of free treatment regardless of the family situation, as provided for in the draft law. When we examined the amendments to Article 1, we also had profound and respectful exchanges on the fate of post-mortem embryos, a very delicate subject even though it concerned only about ten cases in ten years. The bereaved woman is fragile and can be subjected to family pressure; It is therefore difficult for her to make a choice. Besides, the idea of designing an orphaned child makes me uncomfortable. This situation could also put the child in a remedial role, make it the one who fills a loss, who consoles. Finally, what psychological consequences for a child born to a dead parent? Article 2 establishes the partial lifting of the anonymity of gamete donations. This is another step that is allowed by the bill. Many adults born from a LDC with third-party donors told us about the suffering that secrecy had represented for them, as well as their desire to obtain information about the donor in order to reconstruct their history. For them, the distinction between origin and filiation is unambiguous: the donor remains the donor, the parents are the ones who raised them. Article 2 makes it possible to take a major step towards greater transparency regarding the mode of reproduction, even if heterosexual couples can always hide it from their children. A question arose about this: how far should the law intervene in parents' privacy? Finally, it seems wiser to allow them the freedom to inform their children or not, while planning to accompany them and to make them aware of the risk of secrecy and, a contrario, the importance of truth in the construction of their children. Let me turn to article 19. Currently, pre-implantation diagnosis is intended to seek only a specific, serious and incurable genetic disease. An amendment to extend it to the detection of trisomy has been tabled. Such a decision would not be without consequences for society, since this proposal raises the question of sorting between embryos. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Many of the issues addressed in the bill are on such a tenuous ridge line that it is difficult to make a choice. In this regard, our positions are linked to our history, to our intimacy. May we, in the hours and days to come, keep the same quality of listening and exchanging as in committee, out of respect for humanity and for the mystery of each person!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u93	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u94	I had the opportunity to outline the reasons for my opposition to this bill. I would now like to elaborate further on some points. Article 1 opens the LDC to women's couples and single women, without conditions of infertility medical criteria, and with 100 per cent reimbursement from social security. Admit that there is a certain paradox to allow the care of the non-therapeutic LDC through health insurance: the women concerned do not suffer from any pathology. The National Academy of Medicine asked itself the question and concluded in its report that "the funding of this personal societal choice through health insurance is not consistent with the tasks assigned to it". It's obvious, it seems to me. With regard to the opening of the LDC to single women, I have explained how irresponsible the measure seems to me in view of the poverty and precariousness specific to single-parent families, but that is not my only objection. Indeed, your bill rejects the post-mortem LDC. I reassure you, I am not in favour of it – but how can I explain to a woman that she is forbidden to perform a LDC with the gametes of her deceased husband, but that she can very well realize it with the gametes of a third-party donor who is, by definition, unknown to her? It's neither logical nor fair. The problem is that, in your text, we think backwards: we reason, again and again, according to the desire of the woman for a child and not in the interests of the child. You have decided, by Article 3, to remove the anonymity of the third-party donor; It's, I think, a good thing. Unfortunately, you did it without predicting the consequences. Will third-party donors be informed of the number of children they have been born and who, at the age of 18, will want to return to their origins, so get in touch with their "breeders" – as they should now be called? Is it necessary to state, for obvious reasons relating to medical information, that the child comes from a LDC with third-party donors, and how? Should this information be recorded in the shared medical record? If this is the case, why not provide for the removal of anonymity at 16 years of age, the age at which the adolescent can access this file through his Vitale card? These are questions that are not answered in the current bill and that continue to be debated. One more word, Madam Minister of Health. I must admit that I was deeply shocked – and I don't think I'm the only one – by the comments you made in the special committee on the new legal regime for the conservation of embryos designed with third-party donors. Two distinct regimes will now coexist: the anonymity of the donors for the former embryos and, for the others, the new rule of known identity. You explained that it would be "horribly anxious" for the staff of the centres for the study and conservation of human eggs and semen, the CECOS, to have to manage two different legal regimes. Embryos that fall under the first regime will therefore simply be removed. We're talking about 12,000 embryos, and that doesn't seem to move anyone in the majority! So what idea do you have of an embryo to decide without a tan to eliminate 12,000 at once? I shall cite in bulk, for lack of time, a few other reasons for my opposition to the text. First of all, I believe that the creation of chimeras is not desirable. An animal embryo with human cells: how far will it lead us? Then I am opposed to the creation of transgenic embryos. If I hear, of course, those who would like babies without blemishes – who wouldn't want to? –, we have absolutely no hindrance in this matter. Genetically modified binoculars have recently been born in China, and if they are – that was the goal – less susceptible to the AIDS virus, they are, on the other hand, vulnerable to other viruses. Where's ethics in all this? I admit I'm looking for her. Aren't there any limits that should not be exceeded? I believe it – but maybe I'm alien to the air of time... Colleagues, whether we vote for or against the bill will not be annoyed. Bernanos wrote it very well: "A civilization does not collapse like a building; It seems a lot more exactly that it gradually emptys itself of its substance, until there is only the bark left. This describes precisely what you are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u95	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u96	[[Smile]] Bioethics, it necessarily speaks to the nurse that I am – but what is bioethics? On this issue, everyone has his or her opinion and interpretation. For some, it is the law that will give lesbian women the opportunity to have children. For others, it's about genetics, technology, science. Futurists will evoke artificial intelligence. Between us, few have told me about the fecal microbiota, and yet it also appears in the law text – I allow myself, at this late hour, this little wink at the special commission... I could still quote dozens of examples, all more or less close to reality. Here are the common denominators I remember: society, life stories, the human. To legislate on bioethics is to choose between differing opinions in order to find the right balance in the name of good and respect for all. Among the new rights created by the text are first and foremost medical reproductive assistance, the GPA, more commonly known as LDCs. This medical technique now reserved for heterosexual couples, we propose to open it to women's couples and unmarried women. In Eve, Cyrille, Steph, Vinie, Claudie, Cissou and all the other women who live in a relationship with children: I know that you have lived the journey of the fighter, often abroad, to become mothers. Today, your families exist and are happy, just happy. Tomorrow, such routes will be easy and secure for all women in our country. Indeed, the opening of access to the LDC is not only about couples: unmarried women, who sometimes see their biological clock scrolling while they want to family, are not forgotten. Tomorrow, they will be able to use an LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u97	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u98	What about filiation in all this? The French system of filiation will not be upset; It will be adapted. It is essential to secure the child's filiation with both mothers from birth and even before. Finish the long and difficult journeys, requiring intra-family adoption, conditioned by marriage. Despite all the progress made in LDCs, the journey remains long and often painful, filled with hope and disappointment. The debate on the LDC should allow us to focus on the sensitive but necessary issue of pre-implantation diagnosis, the IPR. The observation is this: in France, the failure rate of LDCs is close to 80 per cent; This very high rate is often due to certain chromosomal anomalies, such as spontaneous abortions, i.e. miscarriages. With regard to access to origins, we have received the testimony of many adults born of a gamete donation and who would like to know their origins. What they are looking for is not a father, it is an integral part of themselves, an identity: "Whom do I owe my genetic heritage? For their full construction as well as for their health, these people will have access, if they so wish, to three types of information on the third-party donor: medical data, non-identifiable data and the identity of the third-party donor by their majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Today begins the public discussion of the bioethics bill. Each of its articles requires special attention on our part, commensurate with the challenges of the text. To draw up a law of bioethics is to walk between the two sides of a mountain, between the weight of prejudice on the one hand and that of beliefs on the other. We cling to one of them makes us lean, sometimes appreciably, or even dangerously. The balance is found by walking at a calm pace, looking ahead to us, towards the future of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u99	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u100	Since 27 August, more than 30 hearings have been conducted by the special commission to examine the bioethics bill. A large number of scientific, associative, cultural and philosophical actors have been heard by the said Commission. Their interventions have enriched our thinking. It is obvious that at the end of the special committee discussion some points are still under discussion. In the opposition, as in the majority, opinions may differ. This is what makes our ideas and our conception of the human being rich. The text before us today includes several advances: it meets the expectations of our society and adapts the law to developments in scientific research. However, it maintains ethical safeguards, the main one being that human beings are not objects that are created or modified at their discretion. This text affects the privacy of each of us. It was built in a spirit of justice and fairness. The majority and the special commission have worked on ethical values, far from the cartoons announced. We can affirm this: no, we do not establish a right to the child; No, we are not going to open the doors to a merchandising of the woman's body; No, we will not make the embryo and the newborn the objects of the most elaborate studies. None of this is true, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u101	Incantations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u102	The special committee allowed each parliamentarian to express his or her convictions. Thus on the so-called post-mortem LDC, the debate in committee was important and each of us voted according to his personal convictions, not according to a partisan label. For my part, I voted against the post-mortem LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u104	Although I can understand a widow's approach, I think it is useful to recall that the parenting project is that of two living parents. Before the husband died, the parenting project was not to create an orphan. I believe that we need to be cautious and balanced, between technical and ethical. We must not turn into a "science without consciousness", we must think of ourselves as God, but on the contrary, we must ask ourselves: what are the limits that we must set ourselves? Where does the frontier of life lie? Is what is scientifically possible always ethically desirable? Let us guard against the false good idea which seems a priori of common sense; scrupulously examine all the consequences with objectivity. Let me conclude on the opening of the LDC to women's couples, sharing a reflection from a double personal experience. No, the extension of the LDC is not the provision of a simple procedure that would only be activated to procreate. We do not create children with a magic wand! Success is not guaranteed! My wife and I used the LDC. We were lucky: we had twins. However, our medical career lasted several years. For many other couples we met at the hospital, the process was long, difficult, complex and often very painful, leading to premature births or failures. During the hearings, some witnesses proclaimed that a child must have a father and a mother and that outside this framework, no salvation for the construction of the child! However, neuroscience specialists explain that it is the presence of someone other than the mother that allows the child to discover otherness and gain independence from his mother. This other person is not necessarily the father, as is seen in many societies around the world. On the other hand, you also know that having a father and a mother does not always guarantee family happiness. I had a father, but I was raised by my mother and grandmother. That didn't make me an offender. The identity of each person is not only built up within the family cocoon; There is also the influence of the school, society and the world around us. What matters, it seems to me, is the love, the love that the child receives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u105	Love's all right, it's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u106	The child from the LDC is wanted, he is expected, he is earnestly hoped. Because this child is a symbol of love, the strength in him is the guarantee of his development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u107	Blabla inept!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u108	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For almost a month now, we have been striving to work with humanity, humility, benevolence, without prejudice or stiff certainty. I hope that future discussions will continue in the same spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u109	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u110	I am very pleased that we are fulfilling the commitment to vote in the LDC for all, an important step towards equality. Let us hope that the debates in the House take place, as in committee, in a climate of respect for each other's positions, without the excesses of the rostrum effects. The scheduled time is a very unfavourable procedure for non-attached Members, who will have to share a total speaking time of one hour. It is all the more regrettable that, as you may have noted this evening, the positions of the various Members who are not included in this text vary considerably. I will therefore probably not be able to defend all the amendments I have tabled. Fortunately, many will also be presented by Members from various groups. The panel review provided assurance either through the text or through complementary commitments on key issues, including non-discrimination in access to and care for LDCs or the priority given to the prevention of infertility, including environmental infertility. This proposal is the subject of a trans-party amendment – I thank the chairman of the special committee – which will be defended in the Chamber. Other advances include the strengthening of gamete donation campaigns and the introduction of three-phase gamete stock management to prevent the risk of agitated shortages by some through the creation of new stocks prior to the destruction of the old ones. Another step forward is to secure the filiation of children from LDCs. Instead of the early declaration of will originally intended only for lesbian couples, which posed many problems, the principle of notary recognition for all couples was adopted in committee. This is a step forward, but I will propose an even more secure solution with the extension of the scope of article 311-20 of the Civil Code to women's couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u111	Hey, hey, hey, hey, Are we going to touch the civil code, Madam Keeper of the Seals?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u112	While there are still a few regrets at this stage, I hope that our discussions in public will make them irrelevant, particularly with regard to the post-mortem LDC and the inclusion of the case of transgender men. We were many to defend proposals on these two points in committee, but we lost, with a few votes. I shall therefore resubmit amendments to this effect in the House. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, the content of the ministerial circular to secure the filiation of children born to GPA abroad remains to be clarified. Under no circumstances is it a matter of legalizing the GPA, but it is necessary to end the combatant's journey that some families live to ensure the recognition of their children's civil status.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u113	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u114	Revisions of bioethics laws are a unique moment in our assembly. We need to take into account a number of data: medical advances, technological leaps, as well as growing societal expectations and the diversity of current families. This text is the result of a long period of consultation and debate, launched in particular by the opening by the National Ethics Advisory Committee – CCNE – of the general states of bioethics, which allowed a broad consultation of the public. Many public reports have supported our reflections: not only that of the CCNE, but also those of the Council of State, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices (OPECST) and the fact-finding mission created by the National Assembly. I would like to stress the serenity that has prevailed in our special committee, allowing it to work in a calm manner, with respect for each other's positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u116	The issues raised by this bill are crucial. They invite us legislators to ask ourselves about the society of tomorrow in order to propose a coherent legislative support for societal and technological developments in accordance with our ethics. These reflections, sometimes of the order of the intimate, go beyond partisan logics. To paraphrase Nietzsche, it is not the doubt, it is the certainty that drives mad. We did not agree on everything, of course, but we were able to re-examine our own convictions, doubts, ambiguities, in order to find balanced solutions to complex problems, while respecting the human dignity and free will of everyone. Some have rightly wondered whether anything technically possible is ethically desirable. We are not engaged in a race for modernity. We want to consolidate the values that France defends by imposing safeguards, in particular by affirming our rejection of any commodification of the human body, the defence and respect of differences, the right to freedom, the principle of the protection of the weakest and that of access to health for all. In accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, this bill opens up medically assisted reproduction to all women, without discrimination on the grounds of their sexual orientation, marital status or gender identity. The panel review allowed, among other things, to strengthen the support of all couples with a LDC project and to clarify the composition of the medical team that will accompany them throughout the process. I am pleased that the custody of the seals has abandoned the plan to reserve a separate title in the civil code for children of women's couples. The filiation of these children will fall under Title VII of the Civil Code, such as that of children of heterosexual parents. The recognition of both mothers will be registered before notary at the same time as the consent – compulsory – to the donation of gametes and will appear on the full birth certificate of the child. The post-mortem LDC is the subject of serious questioning. These are rare situations, which I cannot defend in view of the best interests of the child in his process of building identity. It is by placing the interests of the child at the centre of our concerns that the bill organizes a major paradigm shift in access to origins. From now on, all children from LDCs with third-party donors, whether as part of a heterosexual couple or as part of a homosexual couple, will be able, once they are adults and if they so wish, to access their origins, including identifying information on the donor. It is not a question of granting a right to meet, but of allowing those who wish to do so to lift the veil on part of their identity, once they reach the age of majority. The National Ethics Advisory Committee, in its synthesis report on the general states of bioethics, states that there is a consensus not to hide from children the history of their conception. Ending the anonymity of the donation also prevents certain diseases that may be transmitted from the donor to the recipient. In order to ensure equal access to the origins of all children born of a gift, I would be in favour of giving this right to children born before the enactment of the law. In fact, I drafted an amendment to that effect after I met children born in this situation and became adults. They don't look for a father, they just want to identify their breeder, in order to build themselves through a better self-knowledge. In this context, it is important to establish a system that is neither violent nor intrusive for donors and their families and that naturally leaves them the possibility of failing to act. The pre-implantation diagnosis has also given rise to a long debate in committee. The bill provides for the limitation of the time for the cultivation and preservation of embryos and the creation of a separate regime for research into embryos and embryonic stem cells. While the success rate of an in vitro fertilization is around 30% in France and the majority of failures are due to chromosomal abnormalities of the embryo, it would seem important to me to change the legislation on aneuploids and thus to avoid women from experiencing repeated miscarriages. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have no doubt that the quality of our exchanges in special committees will continue during the examination of the text in open session, so that together we can maintain an ethic in French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u117	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u118	We cannot be satisfied with scientific discoveries that do not question the consequences they have for the future of our society. Bioethics requires a course, and this course is man. Of all the bills we've been working on for the past two years, the one we're about to look at is by far the most fundamental, because what we're going to decide will tell a lot about the society to which we aspire. During the 60 hours of hearing and the 50 hours of examination in a special committee, everyone was able to express himself freely, with respect for the other. I would like to thank the Chairman of the Special Committee and to commend the work she has done to ensure that our debates are conducted in a climate that is always serene and respectful. I hope that we will find the same climate here, in a public session. In the face of the complexity of bioethics, let us guard against falling into the trap of political postures. The cleavages must be exceeded. The choices we are about to make are not annoyed; their consequences will be real and lasting. If we open up today the possibilities, the rights, we will not be able to take them back tomorrow by means of a political alternation. It's not possible. I do not envy those who have had frank and clear convictions for months on the issues addressed in this bill. It is with wisdom and respect that we must approach this text, and even more with the courage to abandon our certainties and ignore our convictions, to the benefit of doubt and questioning. We must doubt at every moment, question each and every amendment, so that the general interest takes precedence over our personal beliefs. Exercise is difficult as bioethics subjects affect intimateness, but we must compel ourselves to do so. The stakes require it. The text opens up scientific possibilities and raises ethical doubts. Should we let scientific progress define our society and accept all the advances, what the consequences matter, or, on the contrary, define ourselves the limits that we want to give science, in conscience? It is precisely this balance that we must succeed in finding. While I am convinced that it is essential in our world to put science back into consciousness, this bill provides us with an opportunity to put consciousness back into science, to set ethical boundaries, and to recall that anything that is possible is not necessarily desirable. We must lay safeguards, reintroduce human beings at the heart of scientific progress. Some prohibitions cannot be violated. Should we call him back? Gestation for others is not included in the text we are looking at. If we open the LDC to all, GPA remains prohibited for all. The opening of the LDC is a logic of equality, desired by the majority of the French. I look forward to examining this text today. For some time now, I have often referred to emergencies: emergency access to care, emergency for everyone. After the 2017 presidential commitment and the work done in 2018, it is important to bring to fruition a project that has become an emergency for women who have been waiting for such a text for too long. Beyond the opening of the LDC, this text echoes important societal challenges. After the discussions and the creation of the Health Data Hub by the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, known as "my health 2022", we will for the first time legislate on artificial intelligence. Digitals are disrupting our lives. Today it is a sine qua non for life sciences, offering prospects without common measure for the future. In this matter, we must still and always link science and conscience. That is why we strengthen consent to information and dedicate human guarantees to the interpretation of results when algorithms are used, so that technology remains under the control of medical decision-making, human decision-making, and medicine, health, remains primarily human activity. The many major topics we will examine over the next three weeks will place us at the heart of French specificity in the reflection on ethical issues related to the human body. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, let us be sceptical, doubtful, think about what we want for the future. To paraphrase Pascal, let us be the "thinking reed", the one who knows first and foremost human limits. I wish you good and rich debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u119	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u120	Pauline, Vincent and Marion had childhoods like everyone would dream of having. They slammed doors, shook the educational setting, and their words were able to go beyond their thoughts at the endless Sunday lunches. Their parents so desired and loved them, even before their arrival, that they transcended the biological bonds, largely compensated by those, inalienable, of love. Pauline, Vincent and Marion have had childhoods, we can no longer be banal. But at 17 for one, at 21 and 27 for the others, they finally put words on a question that they had never dared to talk about and that never left them again, reinforced by the scathing absence of these phrases that their friends heard so much: "You are the spitting portrait of your mother," "You have your father's eyes." Would it be necessary, however, to question the love they have for their parents for one second? Definitely not. Would they have wanted to grow up differently? Even less. They just want to know, because they became adults without knowing their origins. Colleagues, these are today the stories of Pauline, Vincent, Marion and dozens of other French and French women, already born or to be born, whose new chapter we will contribute. This bill is beautiful in many respects, because its ambition is guided by the protection of individuals alone and by the guarantee of respect for fundamental rights. Contrary to what some may claim, the opening of medical assistance for procreation to couples of women or single women does not announce the end of civilization; On the contrary, it testifies to its ability to adapt to today's society. While it is not a question of creating a right to the child, let alone creating "pathological" children, as some suggest, the question is, on the other hand, to recognize the evolution of the social structures of the family in France of the twenty-first century. It is about respecting the rights of parents and, above all, the rights of children. It seems to me essential to recall what is in the field of evidence, but which must continue to guide our reflection and our work: no child chooses to be born. This fact obliges us. It is our duty as legislator to engrave in the marble of the law the equal rights and opportunities of the children born in our Republic. Under no circumstances can we accept that children have their rights reduced because of their parents' sexual orientation. In this regard, I would like to commend the Government and all the parliamentarians from all quarters, who, during the examination in committee, have contributed to making the right to access to origins a reality for the greatest number of people. Let us be clear: from the very admission of people conceived from a gift, which we have met, the right to access to origins is not a right to meet. It is simply that those who would need it to build themselves, especially in order to give life in turn, know where they come from and, above all, what genetic heritage they will transmit. Tomorrow, as a result of this law, dozens of children, once they have become adults and have applied to the dedicated commission, will be able to access non-identifying or identifying information about their donor. For this reason, this text is fundamentally generous. It embodies the collective ambition to provide the protection and support to which all children are entitled. I welcome – I welcome – the considerable progress we have made during the examination in committee. These include the removal of the early declaration of will mechanism as a means of establishing filiation for children from women's couples, the introduction of a mental health professional into the clinicobiological team responsible for authorizing the LDC, or the removal of the psychological assessment, which suggested that the opening of the LDC to single women or women's couples warranted such a measure. Maybe we could go even further. As has been stated on many occasions, access to origins is not a right to meet, let alone a rewriting of filiation. I had the opportunity to say this: we will not go to the end of this beautiful will if we do not allow the children of an MPA within a couple made up of a woman and a man to know that they were born of a gift. I hope that the debates in the Chamber will allow us to move forward in this direction. Once again, it would not take away from parents, it would simply make dialogue and information for children the ultimate goals. During my life as a psychiatrist, I saw the pain of children of divorced couples, children who had grown up without a father or a mother, or children who had grown up with a father and a mother in an unspeakable ill-being buried in the silence of their origins. We can mobilize all possible empirical studies, I will remain convinced of one thing: love and trust contribute to balance; No one can prioritize pain. The truth, when erected as a cement of the family unit, is the beginning of the solution. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group.– Maxime Minot also applauds]] Jean-Paul Sartre said: "It is much easier for a philosopher to explain a new concept to another philosopher than to a child. Why? Because the child asks the real questions. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be afraid to bring true answers to all children; That is the least we can do, and that is the ambition of this generous and historic text to which I am sincerely pleased to contribute with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u121	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock-Mialon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u122	Three women, three ministers, for first-rate societal issues; the possibility, finally, for women, couples, children, to obtain certain rights, and also duties. Before you, other women ministers have been committed to defending and advancing these rights. Simone Veil, during the discussions on the IVG, said: "Some have feared that by taking note of a new image of the family, it will not be possible to deteriorate it. This has not been the case, and our country can honour itself with civil legislation that is now fairer, more humane, better suited to the society in which we live. Christiane Taubira asked during the debates on marriage for all: "What will homosexual marriage take away from heterosexual couples? Nothing. If he doesn't take anything off, we're going to dare to put words on feelings and behaviours. » I reiterate the question today: what will the opening of the LDC to all women take away from heterosexual couples? Nothing. This bioethics bill represents real social progress; This is a text of equality. It is also a text of security, in that it provides for the legal consequences of this opening, with the recognition of filiation. In the case of a couple of women, both mothers will finally be recognized as such, from the birth of the child, as their parenting project will have been established upstream; They will no longer have to fear legal insecurity for their families. Each will be a mother, whether or not she has borne the child. It is therefore the will to family that is recognized in this text, as well as the commitment of two parents to protect their child. However, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of equality between children in terms of the protection they deserve. The text should not create inequality by guaranteeing the safety of only some children. Unfortunately, that is what the current wording is all about, and I would like to apologize now to the same-parent families in the event that national representation fails to take into account all children during the examination of the text. First of all, we must think of the future parents who, after the enactment of the law, will travel abroad to benefit from an LDC: in this case, how will filiation be established? Second, women's couples have been going to make LDCs abroad for years: their children will still be unprotected after the enactment of the law. Finally, consider women who are currently pregnant and whose children will be born before the enactment of the law, within a few weeks or days. How can we justify that these children do not have the same rights as those who will be born a little later? For these families, everyday life is sometimes very difficult. A mother of intent cannot monitor her child's health if she is not allowed to make medical decisions about him; he cannot attend school unless the school recognizes only the legal guardian; stays abroad are subject to the submission of an authorization to leave the territory. These stigmatizing situations remind the child that our society so far does not recognize his or her family. In addition, the child is excluded from succession; In a sibling, the children of either mother are not entitled to the same treatment. On the other hand, how can we understand the separations – which can occur in these families too? For heterosexual parents, the only question is ultimately the distribution of the child's day of custody, whereas in homoparental families, one of the parents, having no rights over his or her child and without legal recognition, may be separated from him or her without recourse. Beyond the suffering of the mother of intent, this kidnapping authorized by our country results in the instability and insecurity of the child, who suffers the tear of being separated from his mother, and sometimes from his brothers and sisters, without understanding the reasons for it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Keeper of the Seals, I have cited situations in which the best interests of the child are totally forgotten by our laws. The text that you are presenting to us at the moment only organizes the filiation of families using a LDC with third-party donor, in France, in the future. By standing there, we risk creating inequality between children conceived by the same technique. I therefore call for the Government to exercise wisdom in this regard. We must not be the instigators of such inequalities. Roselyne Bachelot considered that "it is the honour of a parliamentarian to vote according to his conscience, and it is the honour of a parliamentary group to accept differences."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u123	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u124	The text before us today is not ordinary in terms of the subjects it addresses, the questions it raises, or the climate that led to its consideration in a special committee. We have been described as the text of all dangers, all excesses, all outrages; That is not what I saw or felt during its examination in committee, where the debates were intense, but sincere. I have not retained any easy posture, any partisan stance. Our reflections have progressed, individually and collectively. We have positioned ourselves not only according to what we thought was possible, but according to what we thought was desirable. In this regard, I would like to highlight the collegiality of the work done by all political groups and to commend the work of the chairman of the committee. I hope that we will remain faithful to this state of mind during the next three weeks of discussion. We have not only the opportunity, but also the duty, given the content of the bill and the requirement it imposes on us. The French model of bioethics law and its specific review process largely explain this result. I am not unaware of the divisions that go through our country and to which we must give clear answers, but France is not under stress because of these questions, and that is a good thing. Our model also says one essential thing about the very nature of the principles that we must lay down: it is not a question of comparing ourselves with others or of looking at what is being done elsewhere, it is a question of defining what we want for our country. More than anything else, this text leads us to question our role as legislator. The game of alternations will not be able to undo tomorrow what will be done today; There is no experimentation in the field of bioethics, there are only doors that one chooses to open or leave closed. This Bill provides all women, regardless of marital status or sexual orientation, with access to the LDC and to become mothers. In our view, there is no justification for us to wait longer for those who wish to do so and for us to interfere with their desire to establish a family. Going in this direction is a pride for the Republic on the move, and a responsibility that we have carefully weighed. We allow children from third-party donors to know their origins. We facilitate access to the transplant by increasing the possibility of cross donation of organs. We are clarifying embryonic stem cell research by creating a separate regime from embryo research. We put an end to the unnecessary suffering of women by removing the period of reflection prior to a medical interruption of pregnancy. There's what's allowed, and there's what's forbidden. We say that there is no "ethical" GPA and that this medical technique runs counter to the fundamental principles of dignity of the human person and non-patrimoniality of the human body that are ours. The GPA is not included in the text, and it is not a hidden project by either the Government or the majority. The bill sets clear limits to embryo research. We will never accept the creation of embryos for research purposes. We frame it by limiting it to the first fourteen days and for a shelf-life of not more than five years. Genetic testing is confined to a strictly medical setting; A genetic test is not a game. For the first time, a bioethics bill deals with artificial intelligence; We strongly affirm that new scientific and technological opportunities are desirable, as long as they remain in the service of the human being and are controlled by him. To examine this text, we must collectively use an essential, though very rarely, faculty: our ability to doubt. There is no one side of the House who would be right, on the other side who would be wrong. Different beliefs will be expressed from one group to another, or even within the same group. The arbitrations that will be rendered will not mark defeats, nor victories. I thank the group in which I belong for having been able to welcome the contradiction within it, or even for having made it live. In these matters, it is useful to understand everyone's journey: the general discussion that has just taken place will have been anything but a waste of time. I would like to come back to you on two issues that will be discussed and give you the personal path that has enabled me, not without difficulty, to provide clear answers to them. The first is the opening of the LDC to single women. Like many Frenchmen and colleagues, my convictions on this point have evolved. In the end, the question is: since a proven medical technique exists, what would justify limiting access to certain women? The term "single-parent families" is used, but this confuses a parenting project that has been planned and built for two, and one of which has been lacking, sometimes as a result of a tragic accident in life, with a parenting project originally conceived by a single woman. We speak of otherness, but even in a heterosexual couple, the otherness is not built exclusively within the couple; the referents are multiple, they are found elsewhere, in the family, in the entourage... No one, of course, says that the father must be removed: when he is there, and indeed there, he is irreplaceable, for the child in his construction and for the adult in his life, as well as a single mother is irreplaceable for his child, and that two mothers are or will be. In the end, we refer to a dated vision of French families. These are now plural, the roles less and less ingenuity. Recognizing this fact through a bill is the best way to get it accepted, and to get the children who come from these families and who have been wanted, deeply desired. A child's psychological balance is based on the feeling that he is welcomed and loved. Are all heterosexual couples subjected to an emotional stability questionnaire during the first ultrasound? Why question, as a matter of principle, the ability of a single woman to love and raise her child? For all these reasons, I say clearly yes to the LDC open to all women, without exception. And I also say yes to his refund. A right that would only be accessible to a few, because of their income, would not be effective. What about a society that would make the LDC a censoring right? If I say yes to the LDC for all women, I say no to the post-mortem LDC. Designing a child alone is not the same as designing it posthumously, from a missing spouse. All the psychiatrists and child psychiatrists we have interviewed have expressed their reservations about the post-mortem LDC. Without denying the extremely painful nature of these exceptional situations, I make the choice of prudence, restraint, in view of the best interests of the child and the risk that he or she would bear too much burden. The second point, which in this text most demands our principles, is the authorisation of pre-implantation diagnosis of aneuploidies, IPR-A. The arguments that have been put forward, the testimonies that we have heard, have shaken us all; No one here can remain insensitive to the suffering of a woman facing a miscarriage or undergoing a medical interruption of pregnancy, an IMG. It's always a matter of drama. However, what can be conceived on an individual scale seems to me to be extremely dangerous at the collective level. IPD-A consists of sorting embryos prior to implantation. We are told that this sorting would be aimed only at eliminating the risk of miscarriage or chromosomal malformations that could lead to an IMG. It's an impossible promise to keep. The scientific community is formal, as was said during the hearings: such a sorting will never be a guarantee against the risk of miscarriage. Selecting, therefore, means deleting. The legislator that we are would therefore say that we agree to remove a priori embryos that are insufficiently healthy or not in line with the expectations of our society. Access to the least developed country does not create a right to a healthy child. Who could define what "healthy" means? What would be an inclusive society that would exclude a priori, even before pregnancy? It is obvious that if future parents have a choice between a "healthy" embryo and another, they will choose the first one! How can I blame them? This would therefore amount to systematic sorting and selection. Who tells us that tomorrow we can resist the demand of all future parents to resort to such a technique? Finally, by opening up this possibility, we would raise questions that I do not know how to answer. What diseases, what malformations are acceptable to society? Where is it legitimate to place the cursor, and who would be entitled to place it? As a legislator, I do not know how to answer these questions. On this subject more than on any other, collective risk seems to me to exceed the individual interest. It does not seem to me that such a society is the one we want. But that is what we are going to prepare if we make IPR-A possible. I sincerely invite you to exercise the utmost caution on this issue. I hope that our assembly will be able to show its wisdom on this point. Ladies and gentlemen, after sixty hours of hearings and fifty hours of examination in committee, three weeks open before us for discussion in open session. The question is always the same: does science offer us new opportunities, do we collectively believe that these are ethically desirable? Are we going to say that scientific possibility is synonymous with collective and ethical progress? My wish is that we answer this question in the most serene and thoughtful way possible. I would like us to have a beneficial doubt when we look at each article, every amendment, whatever its origin. We must forget our partisan attachments and even our personal and intimate stories to think only of the collective interest of our country, while respecting the ethical limits set by our society. This text offers us an exceptional opportunity to do so. Let's grab her! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To all of us, I wish for fine debates, for those who honour this rostrum and this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u125	The general discussion is closed. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-24-E2010.u126	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
