ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the mobility policy bill (No. 1831, 1974, 1937, 1938, 1942).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u3	After my colleague Aude Luquet, I would like to refer to the development of clean mobility, a major objective of this bill. I will address this subject from the perspective of the energy mix, which is of particular interest to members of the Democratic and Related Movement Group. Transport, whether of people or goods, today accounts for a third of our energy consumption, of which more than 90% is solely from oil. It is therefore unsurprising that they account for 38% of carbon emissions, the share of which continues to grow despite increasingly stringent regulations, as the progress made by manufacturers fails to compensate for the steady increase in the number of vehicles – the number of passenger cars in use thus increased by 40% between 1990 and 2017. CO emissions are, of course, not the only nuisances that our preferred modes of transport produce, with emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and fine particulate matter complementing this pollution cocktail. It is in the city that the situation is most serious, as the energy balance of transport is due to 62 per cent to private vehicles, 31 per cent to freight transport, 4 per cent to public transport and 3 per cent to two-wheelers. It is therefore quite right that the mobility guidance bill devotes several articles to the development of clean and active mobility. We will only be able to reverse this trend and achieve, as I hope, carbon neutrality in the transport sector one day only by developing and facilitating the use of public transport, promoting smooth and active mobility but also by radically transforming our sacrosanct individual vehicles. In order to succeed in this transformation, we must not be mistaken about the objectives or the means to achieve them. The first challenge would be to use as indicators only the emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants from vehicle exhausts, i.e. pollutants emitted during the use of the vehicle, without taking into account the pollution caused by the manufacture and dismantling of the vehicle. If these measures seem relevant for fine particles, sulphur oxides or nitrogen oxides, they are not relevant for carbon dioxide, and could lead us to favour only electric vehicles. Indeed, this methodology does not give an accurate picture of the actual carbon footprint of a vehicle with renewable energies such as green hydrogen and BioGNV, which, over their entire life cycle, emit less CO than an electric vehicle. Recent studies have shown that, for electric vehicles, the highest emissions are related to their manufacture and dismantling, while those of vehicles with alternative fuels BioGNV, which are synthetic fuels, are mainly due to their use. The electric vehicle is virtuous only if the electricity it uses has been produced in a decarbonised manner, as is the case in France where electricity is of nuclear origin. However, today's energy consumption in transport is far too large to be covered by our nuclear power generation. Indeed, if all our transports used only electric energy, we would have to more than double our electricity production. That is why it is very important to define precisely our carbon-neutral targets in the transport sector by 2050, by setting in 2030 and in 2040 intermediate targets that are indeed tenable and truly environmentally friendly. In order to promote this intelligent energy mix to ensure a genuine energy transition, it is essential to specify that the decarbonisation of the transport sector must take into account the carbon balance produced during its life cycle by decarbonated electricity, hydrogen produced with decarbonised electricity or any other decarbonised process, 100% bio-sourced fuels with a carbon neutral balance, and synthetic fuels with a carbon neutral balance. To this end, the definition of low and very low-emission vehicles must be changed at European level, taking into account the concept of a zero carbon cycle for the fuels used. An energy transition based solely on electricity does not effectively address greenhouse gas emissions. We must not switch from a diesel addiction to an electrical addiction! A few weeks ago, I was able to meet representatives of DENA, Deutsche Energie-Agentur, the German equivalent of our ADEME, the Environment and Energy Management Agency. Their analysis is the same as ours. Several countries have taken a lead on us in the development of synthetic fuels, an area in which we are very late. To achieve this, we also need an ambitious policy for the development of clean hydrogen. In any case, such a definition of low- and very-low-emission vehicles would allow us to adopt an open attitude towards more technologies and not to repeat the mistakes we made when we focused too exclusively on diesel. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] It is in this spirit that the Democratic and Related Movement Group will propose its amendments to Title III of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u4	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u5	Christophe Bouillon, leader of the Socialist and related group on this text, criticized this afternoon the draft law on the orientation of mobility by stressing that it was essentially a criticism "in hollow", which does not relate so much to what the text contains as to what might have been there. I make this remark with a certain humility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u6	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u7	Indeed, when we were in charge, we may not have had the ambition – or the means of ambition – to draft, with the forces of the left, a bill for mobility in the 21st century that is up to the current challenges. Madam Minister, you could have made these issues yours, but you had to take into account budgetary constraints, such as those imposed by Bercy, which led you to greatly reduce your ambitions. This bill provides practical solutions, on several points, that we will support, because they are smart and welcome. However, it does not meet our expectations given the twofold challenge of reducing inequalities and combating climate change. Addressing inequalities, in particular the fragility of man who suffers from a constrained sedentaryness, and saving the planetary ecosystem: these are the challenges that must bring us together today and that we must seek to combine. They lead both to arbitrations satisfying the requirement of sharing and to planning taking into account the short and long term and what is taking place here and elsewhere. The proposals that I will make earlier are aimed at establishing such planning, which is not part of the bill. It is therefore with humility, but also with renewed ambition, that I hope that on the occasion of the examination of this text we will be able to draft a law whose title we could borrow from a remarkable platform set up by non-governmental organizations: "Travel, move, transport less, better and otherwise". I am unable, at this moment, to formulate all the necessary solutions. However, we will propose budgetary adjustments aimed at abunding the financing of the infrastructure of the future, and we will make a series of proposals which, in the way of milestones, will give an idea of what this text could have been if it had been at the level of our common ambition. First of all, I am sorry to see that local struggles like the one that has been going on for almost ten years for the A31 bis project that I give as an example, without asking anything – it would be indecent to do so here, especially since we already have the opportunity to talk about it together. How can we explain that the same ministry – and this was the case during the previous presidency, because I am not involved in political controversies – admits that we are experiencing an absolute climate emergency and that maintaining biodiversity is the condition for the survival of humanity, while pretending that the North-South traffic axis from Luxembourg to the south of France will, no matter what happens, continue to concentrate ever greater traffic, without worrying about European harmonisation and alternative modes of transport, which are, in the same Lorrain furrow, a river track and a largely deserted rail axis? It is in the metropolises that the combination of means of mobility has been considered, with difficulty, in order to find alternative solutions to the concentration of motorways. Minister, not so long ago your administration considered the growth of road traffic using fossil fuels to be inevitable. It is the local elected representatives who, by uniting, managed to think of multimodality in the Lorrain Sillon and to impose that metropolises have the right, as stakeholders, to join forces to find solutions. I am grateful to your department for considering this issue differently after we established a balance of power in the public debate. But the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the other ministries responsible for spatial planning still do not seem to me to be able to consider both service to people and European exchanges while taking into account the ecological requirements which are the conditions for our survival. The progress we have yet to make is enormous, and I commend the people in your ministry who have understood it and who are preparing for the revolution that is just beginning. The great awareness of the contemporary era is that of the interdependence between the decisions we are making today and their consequences for the next generation because, as Nicolas Hulot said, it is not our great-grandchildren but the children who are playing in the schools today, who will suffer the consequences of our idleness. This interdependence is also the one that exists between what we are doing here and what is happening at the end of the world, and which also has consequences for us. Interdependence has been tremendously described by Mireille Delmas-Marty, who will discuss in the National Assembly on 19 June the management of interdependences, global governance and complex governance, as well as the political renewal that is required by the thought of a solidarity sovereignty that would replace the solitary sovereignty of both territorial and nation-states in a world that has become terribly, and fortunately, interdependent. While waiting for Mireille Delmas-Marty to present this new thought, I will give only a few leads that are as many milestones but also, perhaps, of heart-cries. The amendments that I will defend on behalf of my political group are often inspired by the work of the Senate, in particular those of my colleague from Meurthe-et-Moselle Olivier Jacquin, who has been heavily involved in this text – you have had the opportunity, Madam Minister, to engage in fruitful dialogue with him. Here are three examples of the fighting that I will be conducting with the Socialist and related group. The first will concern the air transport sector. Unless you are about to announce a forthcoming legislative meeting, we do not understand that you are stalemate in this growing sector, which is known to have a disastrous effect on the climate. We will propose arbitrations aimed at rebalancing rates with the train when the services are, for the duration of the journeys, roughly equivalent. Our amendments come in the same spirit as those of our colleague François Ruffin, who merely wants to ban airlines competing with rail systems for journeys of similar length. Personally, I supported this ban because it has the merit of asking the question of ecological planning and ecological emergency. However, our group has proposed, in a more social democratic logic perhaps more compatible with our constitution, that tariff alignment take place. How can we accept that the price of a mode of transport which emits 50 times more greenhouse gases can be up to ten times lower than that of the train? Will we be able to explain tomorrow to our children and grandchildren that, on the same route and for the same time, we have chosen to allow artificially cheaper options – because they are doped with tax exemptions and because we do not pay the real environmental cost – in disregard of equally comfortable alternatives? The taxation of journeys on the continent intended to upgrade prices between the train and the aircraft would be the least. If we don't, I repeat, I don't know how we can explain it to our children. The second proposal concerns the logistics of the last kilometre. We know all the abuses caused by e-commerce and, just as we need to reflect on the impact of its development on commercial urban planning, I find it surprising that this bill does not at least outline the relationship between urban planning, travel and transportation related to this sector. Our proposal is very simple: to extend the ability given to cities and cities to choose a single operator. I know that it is not so simple, but I would like to see at least a discussion initiated on the ability to select a single operator who, in this case, could be the public operator of La Poste, but who could just as well be another one, in order to prevent private delivery companies from crossing those of public companies that serve each of our houses every day, in this French Republic that cherishes equality. How could the liberalization of last-kilometre modes of delivery have caused these aberrant crossings? Again, on the day of the great collapse, I will not be able to explain to my children or grandchildren how we were able to let vans deliver a few grams at an absolutely ridiculous cost by taking the risk of polluting the planet. I have taken these two examples – the competing plane of the train, and the deliveries that cross our departmental, national or highway routes to satisfy the whims of contemporary consumers – to illustrate the need for planning, arbitration, which should first aim at the idleness of the most privileged of us, which leads to waste. In short, a conversion of the gaze is necessary, a conversion that could be described as civilizational. It could begin with these small gestures that I have mentioned, which are not so insignificant in the light of climate change. Finally, the last example I will quote, which may seem anecdotal to you – but I don't think it is; Otherwise, I would not have tabled any amendments on this matter – is that of advertising. I was thinking this weekend by seeing these huge billboards boasting places at the end of the world, 10000 kilometers from here, where one could treat his need for loneliness on a deserted beach, alone face to face with immensity...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u8	Come to Belle-Île-en-Mer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u9	... while Brittany is so close, so beautiful, dear Jimmy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u10	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u11	... and accessible by TGV at what hours, of course! So I saw these advertisements that boasted us of stays at the end of the world for amounts, all in all, quite weak in the eyes of the upper middle classes of our countries. Then I also saw this other ad for SUVs – Sport utility vehicle – or rather for big cars, because I don't know anything about it, very powerful cars that can go anywhere, anywhere in the country. I could not help but think that we are selling, through advertising – that of international flights as a luxury leisure and that of a vehicle allowing access to countryside spaces that even the peasant I am never needed to do his job –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u12	Tractors, they're polluting too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u13	... to people whose practices lead to the destruction of ecosystems, whether they be exotic littorals or our countryside. Advertising is a kind of dishonest lie: it sells nature while promoting the instruments that will destroy it. I will simply propose, by means of an amendment, to indicate the carbon footprint of these trips and the energy consumption of these out-of-standard vehicles, which are used for the sake of luxury or self-inflicted, and which pollute two, three, or even four times as much as lighter normal vehicles. More fundamentally, Madam Minister, we are presenting an amendment that, while it is a call – it actually calls for in-depth reflection on the subject – deserves to be taken seriously. It provides that goods are financed at their real cost and tends to prohibit free deliveries because any transport has a cost – because it requires work and has a carbon footprint. This is a principle similar to that which we have enshrined in the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all, known as EGalim, according to which all production must have a counterpart to its real cost and cannot be braced for speculative reasons. This principle, which we have wanted to make valid in agriculture, and which is beginning to apply laboriously, must be extended to transport: the existence of a minimum price for transport would allow us to reconsider the economy, not to hinder its functioning, but to think about it in its real costs; In other words, to humanize it and guarantee to everyone a future that is more amiable than the collapse that is predicted to us. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on some of the MODEM benches. – Xavier Paluszkiewicz also applauds]] That is the meaning of the amendments that we are proposing and which we will defend before you in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u14	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u15	From the outset, we can only be struck by the introduction of the concept of mobility instead of that of transport. In fact, this concept has been developed and has been established on the initiative of employers for employees. In an economic world that is constantly changing, guided by the search for strong profit in the short term, the employer has endeavoured to make the reality of mobility inevitable for workers: mobility in their working life as in everything attached to it, place of residence, place of training, I pass and the best! Today it is a matter of being mobile, or flexible, versatile, agile, and more and more rapidly, to adapt to the demands of the liberal system of production and trade. We therefore see this text as a project to adapt our country's transport to the needs of the business world. For the proponents of liberalism, the organization of the movement of men and goods must regress to the geography and the landscape and economic and social that the liberals continue to draw on the scale of territories and social life. In fact, the explanatory memorandum clearly states: "Mobility policies must be based even more on the initiative of companies", you say, before adding that these private initiatives must be released, do not hold them back. All this to strengthen their role in the governance of transport because they finance in part mobility offers via the mobility payment. The employer is therefore officially given a significant role in the provision of service, the pricing policy and the rate of the transport payment. With regard to the latter, now known as the mobility payment, you take care to acknowledge that it can be modulated to take account of the economic fragility of certain territories. In short, you can also, ladies and gentlemen, exempt you a little from this contribution according to criteria that we don't know anything about. It's all said! Thus, your law gives the driving force of travel to the private sector, whether companies are providers of new services or users of them through their employees. The market for the movement of men and goods is open. It's true it's huge! In fact, "the border, yesterday strict, between individual mobility and public transport is disappearing," you say before enthusiastically offering "flexible, responsive and often very inexpensive new solutions" that this generates – in a word, individualised low cost solutions. In this way, you make even more room for the uberization of traffic, a degraded mode for both workers and users. Any private person can now constitute a multimodal transport service sales service agreed or organised by the public authorities. As for e-connection platforms, your government has the audacity, that is, to provide an optional charter to offer additional social rights to the self-employed they employ. The government is too good! The explanatory memorandum of the bill identifies three issues that call for action in this area but carefully avoids calling into question the choices made for several years in terms of social and territorial cohesion, which undermine the mobility of the French, make it expensive, harassing and detrimental to their health and environment. Thus, the institutional organization of the country and its galloping metropolization are never called into question, while the cities behave as real seekers of activities and jobs to the detriment of the other territories that desert. You're just taking note of the phenomenon. Similarly, we see no sign of a desire to reindustrialize and regain production, whereas such a policy would allow the inhabitants of our regions to "live and work in the country", and our country to weigh on transnational exchanges to limit their congestion effects and the so-called social least. Finally, there is no slightest tendency towards a policy of redeployment of public services to place them in the immediate vicinity of users, on a human scale, of their place of life. You therefore ignore the observational elements of the Institute of Sustainable Development and International Relations – IDDRI – of October 2018, which notes that the increase in local mobility is more linked to the evolution of spatial planning and labour markets, which leads to longer distances, than to a greater social demand for mobility. As for the social aspect of your law, it is poverty and distressing inaccuracy. No provision of general and universal scope is included in the text which is likely to reduce the cost of travel, starting with the strong decision that the rate of VAT on a service, that of transport, would be reduced from 10% to 5.5%, which is clearly a matter of the first necessity for the French. Such a provision could lower the price of user tickets and free up additional financing capacity for transport organising authorities in order to improve the functioning of the service and increase investment. When you target specific audiences – active, job-seekers or people who are losing their autonomy – you only advocate optional measures. In the absence of any obligation, there is no guarantee that the organizing authority and its partner companies will implement them. Only people with disabilities and caregivers benefit – and it's happy! – some favourable measures. The same laissez-faire prevents the conditions for a truly encouraged use of soft mobilitys, first and foremost of which are the two-wheelers, since the bicycle package is always optional and its benefit is not cumulative with the reimbursement of the cost of public transport. You register your law in the context of forced mobility, a phenomenon that the IDDRI survey recommends to curb by the generalisation of community approaches for urban and social life. You refuse to leave this trompe-l'oeil vision, which systematically combines growth of mobility and social progress. Forced household mobility has implications for energy vulnerability, exclusion, productivity and well-being. This helps to understand how the yellow vest crisis has developed and why complaints and claims that fall directly or indirectly within the scope of mobility are so powerful. It is an aspiration to live better in everyday life that is expressed. Our fellow citizens want a more peaceful and humanized life, because their relationship to space-time, incarcerated under the criteria of maximum profitability at work, is no longer sustainable. As such, the 2016 Mobile Lives Forum showed that almost half of people would want to reduce their mobility. So, am I just good at pleading here a search for lost time...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u16	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u17	... in this context of forced mobility which increases distances and with them fatigue, journeys between home and work in addition to the various daily obligations of family and social life to the point of leaving little room for legitimate time of relaxation? Well, yes, it is to praise the appeasement, the social rest that I would like to give myself, by defending new orientations in the field of spatial planning and new advances in the field of work, because there is the relationship between the French and their mobility. Thus, the reduction of working time to 32 hours, the drastic limitation of staggered working hours for employees, coupled with the revitalization of local public services,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u18	We're gonna have to triple the number of civil servants!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u19	...this is a vision of society on a human scale from which you deliberately distance our country. Of course, this would require a completely different mobilization of the financial resources and a reorientation of them. The just and lasting proposals are flourishing in this area: they are constantly being put forward and argued; and the French have seized them. The first step would be to establish a fair contribution by road and air transport companies and companies to public policies; the question is clearly asked. Measures specific to the higher tertiary and tertiary sectors, to large-scale distribution, to business centres and to leisure complexes already exist in Île-de-France; they should be applied throughout the national territory. Finally, contrary to your guidelines, the amount of the mobility transport payment should be deflated, making possible a regional increase. This would mobilise substantial additional revenue and significant social and environmental efficiency. Such a policy would accredit the intention of achieving ambitious solidarity, an ecological transition and land-use planning supported by a significantly increased level of investment. There is a need to implement public policies capable of re-establishing the country, making it full and offering our fellow citizens smoother, more accessible and more peaceful mobility. To support your project, you have updated the state's infrastructure commitments. You propose a mediocre median trajectory; She's already compromised, and you know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u20	That's right! That's what I said earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u21	On the road, toll motorways are more than ever on the agenda, for multi-annual amounts of a few billion, with the risk that the remaining tens of thousands of kilometres of road will also be granted. Moreover, your priorities tend to consolidate certain movements for the benefit of socio-economic elites, as illustrated by the example of Charles-de-Gaulle Express, to the detriment of the daily transport of employees. Already, the railway pact that you adopted a year ago to open up the whole rail system to competition results in alarming decisions such as the closure of windows and the stoppage of services in rural and peri-urban areas, to the benefit of the major inter-metropolitan corridors, which are profitable to the maximum. After what the SNCF – the social movement of tomorrow reminds you of this reality – has suffered, the fate that your draft law reserves for RATP raises the worst fear, whether it is about access by users to the greater Paris area or the social conditions of employees. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] Yes, Madam Minister, your project is far from technical: it is a very political project against which we will constantly oppose it during the whole of its discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u22	The floor is for Mr Jean Lassalle, who has five minutes, since Members who are not registered do not benefit from the freedoms linked to scheduled time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u23	Like each and every one of us, I was able to disconnect myself from parliamentary life during this very long bridge of Ascension – one could even speak of viaduct. During these few days, we have found our own, those with whom we are used to trading, living. However, once again, their fate has not improved. It is true that they are far enough, relegated in I do not know any crown or what deep campaign. Everywhere, I've seen farms threatened with closure, artisans ready to stop their activity – let's not even talk about traders! Very few prospects for the future! I have remembered what for forty years – let's not tell stories – we all promise: "You'll see, it's going to be better! "; "We will return to the path of growth"; "The reorganisation of the European Union will relaunch such consumption as we have not known for thirty years! "; "Of course, our efforts will focus on difficult territories, suburbs and rural areas. I thought to myself, "But still! What can we lie to them? And with what regularity: metronomes! » Of course, it had begun before: Tonton had not said everything either, Jacquou; With Sarkozy, we've accelerated. Holland paid very much too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u24	Holland, it was because of a scooter!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u25	It's an alternative mode of transport!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u26	Mobility, mobility!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u27	But, together with the President of the Republic, today we have a synthesis of all the promises that have been made by each other. Of course, they have no chance of being held! Besides, none is ever held: the more he promises, the less he holds! Returning to Paris after spending five relatively happy days, but still a little sad, I came across a taxi driver: the poor bastard told me about his plate which had cost him 250,000 euros and which he no longer knew what to do, because he had fewer and fewer customers. When he spoke of Uber, I remembered that I had one evening taken a vehicle from that company, although I did not make it a religion. I then asked the driver if he was making a lot of money by doing the trick at taxis, and he told me that he was going to stop, that unlike the latter, with less than 1000 euros a month, he could not make plans for the future. I told the taxi driver, who told me that it was the truth. As I have some fistons who are about to pass the driver's license – I've passed it twice, I thought I could give them some advice – I also met with a few car school officials. They're in a bad mood! They know they're going to disappear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u29	They're going to go to the pan, even if they don't know exactly what's going to replace them. So I explained to them that those in charge of future auto-schools would only come from time to time and change continuously, that it would be much cheaper and that drivers would be trained much faster. In fact, Mr. President had promised that the permit would be free, so it is normal for the car schools to go to the pot. Then I met some paramedics; They are 5500 in France, working in SMEs, from all small businesses. They will be put in competition for them to disappear faster, with the other companies. I wondered when we were going to hear Bernard Arnault, Patrick Drahi, Xavier Niel, the son Lagardère – who is much less intelligent than the father, it is said – and Father Bolloré, to know how long they will keep the mastery of the world, the mastery of BFM TV and his incredible type with the red scarf, which each morning gives notes to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u31	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u32	Right now, he's writing down all of you, and so are you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u33	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u34	No! I'm done! I can make a conclusion...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u35	Precisely, the conclusion! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u36	[[Smile]] No, you don't understand! You don't understand, Mr. President! I say "you" because it's republican and revolutionary! [[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, French and French, if you continue like this, if, in one way or another, you do not react, do not be surprised that tomorrow, you are no longer anything, because anyway, we are already nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u37	We are obliged to limit the speaking time of non-attached Members since, by definition, they are not part of a group within which solidarity can be exercised. Non-registered persons have a total of one hour; If one gives more time to the first speaker, one unjustly reduces the speaking time devoted to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u38	Anyway, it doesn't make any sense anymore, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u39	But this is not directed against you, as you know, Mr Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u40	It's all over!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u41	Mr Jean-Baptiste Djebari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u42	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr. President; I apologize in advance for the platitude of my remarks. A year ago, we were debating the railway pact here. The questions then arose of the outdated network, the financing of regeneration work or the search for greater complementarity between modes of transport; There are a number of issues that are echoed today in the mobility policy bill. This law must be re-established with a political intention, that of refocusing our action on daily displacement. To this end, it is necessary to define budgetary priorities, to give tools to the elected representatives, in particular regions and intercommunalities, or to inspire and order the new mobility operators – I am thinking here of carpooling in sparsely populated areas or of the start-ups that are spreading today in the French metropolises. We have begun to translate this intention into action during the fifty hours of debate in committee: this useful work, which is often a partnership, has led to important progress. With regard to budgetary programming, the choice was made of an unprecedented but necessary investment of EUR 13.4 billion to offset the deterioration of rail, road and river networks. I welcome the adoption, on the initiative of my colleague Bérangère Abba, of an amendment providing for the submission by the Government of a report on the development of the balance trains of the territories and on the improvement of the supply of night trains. In the area of governance, the major challenges in the fight against noise pollution and the fight against sedentaryness have been included in the objectives pursued by transport systems. Important and concrete work has also been done on new mobilitys. In this regard, I welcome my colleagues Bérangère Couillard and Jean-Marc Zulesi, whose work has made it possible to amend Article 11 quite broadly and thus remove various obstacles to the establishment of a genuine multimodal digital system. Very concretely, this will facilitate complementarity between modes of transport, within which active and shared mobility must be able to grow and reach more and more users. The relaxation of the 80-kilometre-hour rule adopted by senators has also been retained in principle and improved in its terms. In this text, our ecological commitment is translated into action. It sets the goal of ending the sale of private vehicles and light-duty vehicles using fossil fuels by 2040; I welcome here the important work and political will of our friend and rapporteur Jean-Luc Fugit. Also important is the introduction of bike training in the education code to strengthen the use of this soft mode among younger generations. Finally, our rapporteur, Zivka Park, has proposed strong measures relating to security in transport. I note in particular the possibility for users to benefit from stopovers on demand at night. Colleagues, this bill is important, but we still have a lot to deal with. It is important because today we are defining the requirements that will be imposed tomorrow on the automotive, rail, maritime and air industries. Rather than clumsyly opposing modes of transport between them, it is a matter of working with discernment towards fruitful complementarity between modes in order to render service to all French people throughout the territory. We are aware that the debate will not exhaust the issue of infrastructure financing, which will continue in the context of the review of the next finance law. In addition to the above, it will be interesting for the Government to tell us how it intends to deal with the case of motorway concessions that expire between 2032 and 2036. It seems to me that this is a powerful and decentralized financing lever compatible with the commitments of the President of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, Madam Minister, you know that you have the full support of the majority group. We will ensure that this law carries the triple requirement to facilitate the movement of the French, to create value for mobility operators and to create a stable and attractive social framework for transport workers, without yielding to conservatism on all sides.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u43	"Creating value for mobility operators? »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u44	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u45	We have heard about this bill since the election of Mr.Macron: the text is very much awaited because the challenge is great! According to the figures of the Minister of Labour, one in four Frenchmen refused training or employment during their lifetime for lack of mobility. This is the second brake on employment after skill. The problem was largely highlighted by the movement of yellow vests, the origin of which, it is recalled, was the exorbitant cost of fuel to a whole part of the population. Hence the answers given today or rather the few elements of the answer, such as these multimodal platforms which would group together all the mobility offers. Also featured in this text, and it is happy, free floating, that it became urgent to treat so many of these famous electric scooters flourish on the sidewalks, mainly Parisians or our metropolises. The issue of autonomous vehicles is also included in your bill, but unfortunately, once again, it is a matter of empowering the Government to legislate by order, one of the seventeen that this bill provides for. Perhaps you do not trust parliamentarians whose constituencies have already experienced such vehicles? This is the case in Béziers, where an autonomous shuttle was on the Paul Riquet Allies last summer. Success was at the rendezvous. The city already has a foot in the future and imagines routes to connect the station, soon transformed into a multimodal pole,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u46	A train station!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u47	... in the historic center. But technological progress and innovation do not always rhyme with justice. I am thinking of the fierce and unfair competition between classic auto-schools and online platforms. How will the former resist when the latter benefit from much more flexibility and have to pay much less burdens? I wonder: should the market become a jungle delivered to the voraciousness of some? Injustice for our provinces, too. Don't be displeased, the French have the right to work, to live, to exist outside the metropolises! To do this, you really need to take into account the needs and specificities of our cities, especially the medium-sized cities. Can do better! In order to encourage employees to take their bikes or to go to work as carpools, and thus less polluting, you have provided in Article 26 for a "mobility premium" of 400 euros per year, on which the employer would not pay any social contributions. This optional aid, some would like it compulsory but who will pay? Once again, these are our TPEs and SMEs, which are already often affected by the burden of taxes and taxes. You have also imagined reserving certain roadways for carpooling and low-emission vehicles, with, at the key, ever more inequality between those who can change cars and others. The road safety component of your bill does not go far enough. I hope that my proposals on this subject will be listened to attentively and kindly. I am thinking, for example, of the recognition of the use of Category 3 medicines as an aggravating circumstance of voluntary homicide, or of the encouragement, for a preventive purpose, from the age of 14 to participate, on a voluntary basis, in a half-day internship in a rehabilitation centre for road accidents. Surprisingly, when it comes to projects that could really facilitate the circulation of daily life, you hesitate, you procrastinate. For months, many of us have been drawing your attention here to the necessary construction of the new Montpellier-Béziers-Perpignan line, the last section missing from the Seville-Amsterdam line to be complete. This section, for you who only have the word "Europe" in your mouth, is the one that connects northern Europe with southern Europe! This section is an ecological solution for the train to take precedence over a saturated motorway. This section is plotted; it is funded – the European Union is helping. So no one in our country understands why you're deaf, while my region, the companies, the people, have been waiting for this line for more than thirty years. So when you talk about competitiveness and mobility for all, believe me, these words sound terribly hollow in the ears of the Biterrois. In conclusion, you will allow me to highlight how important, broad, and five-minute talking about such a bill is a challenge. However, this is what the majority of non-attached Members are forced to do and what you now want to impose on all groups. [[Mr Ludovic Pajot applauds]] Madam Minister, you who say that you want to "provide answers to all", can you really listen to all the Members of this House and their proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u48	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u49	The President of the Republic and the Prime Minister said this in the aftermath of the European elections: we must be at the meeting of the citizens' call on ecology. I believe that this mobility law is a fantastic opportunity to show that there is a before and a after and that the message sent by the citizens has been well understood. I will give four examples. The first is the inclusion in the committee of the end of the sale of petrol and diesel thermal vehicles in 2040 and I believe that we could go even further. The date can be discussed: 2035 would perhaps be more in line with the strategic plans of French manufacturers, but this article could usefully be supplemented by an accompaniment of territories, employees, companies to support the transition. The second point is the sustainable mobility package. We discussed the advisability of making it mandatory. I continue to believe that this is an indispensable condition for him to make a real difference. A first step has been taken by the Government: the mandatory annual negotiations, the possibility for the Government to legislate by ordinance within 18 months. We could go further and set up a basic package after two years in companies where negotiations would not have been successful. As far as the air sector is concerned, there have been discussions, exchanges and voluntary proposals that sometimes conflict with each other. I am proposing a compromise amendment. I have heard the President of the Republic say, in particular, that the European scale is the right one to make progress in the taxation of kerosene or in other ways. I believe that this is indeed the right scale, but it does not exclude a French example without which the voice of France will not have the same strength in the European negotiations. We will propose by amendment that France give itself two years to act at European level and that if it fails to do so, it will assume its responsibilities alone or with a group of countries. This would make it possible to converge on this subject, which is so conflicting and on which we still need to move forward in order to show the citizens the coherence of France's action on these subjects. Air transport cannot remain the only sector that does not contribute to the ecological transition. Finally, with regard to financing, we must solve the problem of the 600 million euros we lack each year in order to finance the scenario provided for in the bill. I thought we were going to know what solution the Government would take today, but I understand that this would be decided in the context of the finance bill for 2020. We need to move forward on this. I do not think there are many possible solutions: either a transitional vignette for the heavy goods vehicles that are refuelling in France, possibly repayable, or an adaptation of the TICEP, the internal consumption tax on energy products, but we must find a solution without delay because this source of funding is needed to creditize the law. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] These are the four points on which I believe we could make useful progress. I hope that the discussion of the 3400 amendments will strengthen the ambition of this text. It goes in the right direction but we can go much further and show great consistency on the air, on the sustainable mobility package, on the financing, on the accompaniment of the territories in the transformation of the automobile industry. These discussions must be useful to the ecological cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u50	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u51	As the results of the last election consultation have shown, the divide continues to widen in our country. These multiple fractures, we have constantly highlighted them to alert you to their consequences. The first of all is the territorial divide. We are all representatives of the Nation here, but also of the voice carriers of our territories and this is where a form of breach of equality is established: depending on whether you are urban or rural, public services will be dense or null. This territorial divide is at the root of the profound social crisis that our country has seen born through the movement of yellow vests: on the one hand, France of cities and major cities, which see gradually the accumulation of all the wealth and offers of services, and where the price of the living square metre is constantly increasing, which mechanically has the effect of driving out the popular and middle classes of these basins of life; rural communities and peri-urban areas, which, one after the other, see many public services disappear every day, from health professionals to post offices, schools, police or justice services. In view of this fact, there is indeed a major challenge for politicians: to ensure that many areas are effectively cleared up in order to reduce these territorial inequalities. But this objective must not be used as a pretext for ever-increasing uberization of our economy. However, when we look at your bill, we have some concerns, including those that may apply to digital platforms. We do not want the necessary ecological transition supported by many French to become the pretext for a punitive ecology that would hit our most modest compatriots with full force. I am thinking here of the ban by 2040 on the sale of petrol and diesel vehicles. We are not opposed to the development of cleaner vehicles, provided that their cost is compatible with the French budget. In our view, the reduction of the pollution emitted must also involve the promotion of hydrogen as a source of energy – France is lagging behind its neighbours in this area. It is essential to continue to protect our various transport-related economic sectors. For example, our taxis are subject to unfair competition from professionals who do not face the same legal constraints. We support the development of more environmentally friendly modes of transport such as cycling. In this area, the objectives set out in your bill are commendable, but they are not ambitious enough. Thus, we would have liked to have better taken over by companies of the sustainable mobility package. We deeply regret that the demands of the auto-schools, which have been widely mobilized in recent weeks, have not been heard. It is essential, however, to avoid falling into the digital world and to preserve small schools against platforms. As such, it would have been more than preferable to maintain the departmental nature of the approval granted to road education establishments, thus ensuring better control by the State services. The President of the Republic and his majority have been confronted in recent months with the most serious crisis in a very long time. The main lesson to be learned from this is the imperative of drastically reducing the territorial divide that our country suffers and that is at the root of multiple inequalities. This bill, like many others before it, will unfortunately not allow! I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u52	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u53	We are meeting today to discuss the first transport policy act since 1982. That is to say, how immense were the hopes that the announcement by the executive of the launch of this vast project had aroused, both on these benches and among the associations. The disappointment that both now share is at the height of those hopes. It is not all to be thrown into this text, however, far from it. The provisions on so-called active mobilitys, shared mobilitys or specific mobilitys will be welcomed. However, it is very much to bet that once again, Madam Minister, your ambitions have been undermined by Bercy, who seems to me much more inclined to take out his checkbook in order to align gifts to the richest than when it is necessary to accompany the transformation of mobility in the face of social, societal and, above all, environmental challenges. It must be admitted that this text, on all levels, is that of broken hopes, in the first place from the budgetary point of view. We therefore seriously doubt your ability to finance the ambitions shown. Apart from the fact that, as usual, the promised budget increases are insinuating, the amounts announced are all below the estimated needs, whether for multi-annual road programming, for the river or for the rail, where the most complete blur is swimming. We really feel like we're going blind. While this government serves us a daily portion of greenwashing, no targets are set for the release of diesel or for accompanying alternative solutions to the thermal engine. Nothing, either, about the reactivation of a part of a railway network – one can always dream... – which is nevertheless among the densest in the world, but a logic "on all roads" difficult to understand while, every day, one blames a little more those who have no choice but to use their car. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] In addition, with this project, I am concerned about the gradual abandonment of the "collective" in favour of the "individual" or the public service in favour of the private offer. Everything is done here to always speed up the ubiquitous mobilities with private companies that become main actors and public authorities relegated to the rank of mere arbitrators. On the social question, it is not much better: no particular effort is being made towards those who suffer most from the territorial or social divides, I shall return to it a little later. It is true that the project has a few measures, but here again everything is vague or, at least, not up to the expectations of the people. It is not clear how these could solve problems related to the precariousness of mobility, as illustrated by the non-compulsory nature of the sustainable mobility package and the mobility aids for vulnerable audiences. Finally – I will end by saying this – how can I not notice that two areas of mobility shine by their absence: the air and the sea? Thirty-seven years of waiting and not a word while more than 33 million people borrowed a domestic air link last year and 32 million passengers went to French seaports! How can we talk about mobility and the fight against global warming without addressing two of the most polluting modes of transport? Of course, despite repeated threats of inadmissibility, the subject has entered through the small door in committee and that is so much better, but we remain hungry. Moreover, in addition to the issue of environmental issues, another major issue involving these two sectors remains outstanding – it is of particular interest to me as an elected member of Guyana, the Amazonian territory located 7,000 kilometres from Paris and suffering from double enclavement, where public services are scarce and often ineffective –: I want to talk about territorial continuity and overseas mobility. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] How many times will it be necessary to repeat it? France is not only continental: it is also global and maritime. However, when we read this bill, we can see that the only mobilitys that have concerned you are indeed those of the French people in the hexagon, the citizens of the overseas countries and territories remaining as usual on the tile. Electric cars, scooters, bike-roads, mobile applications are certainly major issues that require our full attention and that would deserve a wide-ranging text. On the other hand, the real challenge for the almost 3 million French overseasers is the de-enclavement, which necessarily goes through the air and the sea. This voluntary oblivion particularly displeases us in reading the objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum aimed at reducing the divide and territorial inequalities. It doesn't make sense for everyone, at least not for our ultramarine fellow citizens. To remedy this, the colleagues of my Group from the Democratic and Republican Left and other colleagues from overseas have tabled a number of amendments relating to territorial continuity. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds again]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] Madam Minister, the expectations of our territories are strong, especially after the President of the Republic said that he was not Santa Claus to citizens who requested the support of the State to deenclave the commune of Maripasoula, inhabited by more than 12,000 inhabitants. That is why I hope that our amendments will receive your full attention. This will certainly condition my support or not for this text, which is intended to be a founding text. Already, I want to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u54	The general discussion is closed. The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u55	I have no doubt that you are all looking forward to starting the examination of Title I and I will therefore not respond in detail to all of these rich interventions. I thank all the speakers for that. First of all, I would like to welcome the many points of consensus: consensus on the priority that must be given to everyday transport after decades, where transport policy has come down to debates on major projects; consensus, too, on trust in the territories in order to build the solutions most suited to the needs of each of them; consensus on the will to leave no one without a solution; Finally, there is a consensus on the environmental requirement that we need to be guided by. I would like to thank Jean-Marc Zulesi and Aude Luquet for highlighting how structuring these various points are in this text. Mr Wulfranc, you will understand, of course, that I do not share your reading of the draft. No, it's not about privatizing everything! As Mr Djebari has said, we are pursuing the ambition of the new railway pact to make this sector the backbone of clean mobility. Yes, public transport is a solution that will remain essential in many territories, but it must be noted that many of them are left out, so many of our fellow citizens who need new solutions. That is the purpose of this bill. I hear that some see it as a collection of technical measures without ambition, but it is precisely the opposite! An ambition is affirmed, shared, and based on concrete tools. I note, moreover, that at the same time you are asking for others, in certain areas, in certain territories. Moreover, what would be a political ambition without concrete tools to implement it? I have also noted questions or concerns, which we may return to, but I would like to point out a few points already. As regards the rural world, the less populated areas, I have heard the concern expressed in particular by Mr Demilly. The ambition of this bill is precisely to respond to the problems that arise, including in rural areas – hence the objective of covering the whole territory by organizing authorities, whether they are communities of communes or, if not, regions. These responses can be known, as with regular public transport, but they can also include on-demand transport, carpooling, self-service vehicles, autonomous shuttles. Experiments are also under way, for example in the community of communes in the heart of Brenne, where these solutions work. This will also be the case in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u56	Tinchebray!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u57	These solutions also work in the territories we accompany, with France Mobilitys: I am thinking of the regional natural park of the Grands Causses which, thanks to a "package of solutions", will become a "zero carbon" territory, including in terms of mobility, but also to the community of communes Mad and Moselle, which promotes transport on demand with great success. I am therefore convinced that this law will allow each of our fellow citizens to have answers in all the territories. Mr Sermier, we are of course aware that in many areas the car will still be necessary for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u58	For 80% of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u59	We aim to propose alternatives to private cars as widely as possible and we also accompany the French to move on to more recent vehicles, which consume less, which therefore pollute less, which thus weigh less on the household budget. This is an important demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u60	And we export the old cars to Africa!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u61	Yes, Mr Duvergé, we support the development of electric mobility, but not just that based on batteries. We certainly need to support the hydrogen sector and that is what we are doing with systematically technologically neutral aids and calls for projects – I am thinking in particular of the 50 million to support "hydrogen territories" projects, to support bioGNVs and, more generally, biofuels. We will return to that during the debates. I have also heard the questions about the investment path set out in this bill. We will also be able to return to this, but I can assure you that it is in line with the ambition of the central scenario of the Infrastructure Guidance Board – IOC. I heard the questions about resources. Responses have already been made to stabilize them and to provide prospects, including the allocation of a share of ICTPE. We will discuss this important issue of the contribution of polluting activities and modes to the financing of clean mobility. This will help to clarify the provisions that will then be included in the Finance Act. A word on freight transport, MP Potier. Yes, we take these issues into account, including the logistics of the last kilometre. We cannot, of course, ignore such a subject as e-commerce grows by 15% per year. We cannot at the same time want to reduce the place of the car in our cities and see the number of vans multiply! Yes, we take these urban logistics issues into account! I think that the communities have the necessary tools, as we assure them, in Montpellier or Grenoble: they can regulate this logistics. We will come back to that when we discuss the amendments that you have tabled. I would add – and this is important – that we have planned, in committee, to include a logistics component in the mobility plans. Of course, it is important to address the issue of mobility of persons, but also the transport of goods. This project of course supports the development of alternative modes to the road, cleaner modes: 2.3 billion euros will be spent in the next ten years on the rail and river sectors, not to mention the Seine Nord Europe Canal or the Lyon-Turin project. Perhaps it is the same people who tell us at the same time that we must promote the modal delay and that we must stop this last project! I would point out that the share of rail transport between France and Italy is 8% and 70% between Italy and Switzerland, which already has two tunnels on the model we want to achieve with the Lyon-Turin project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u62	Yes! All right! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u63	I repeat that the rail reform does provide for a stabilisation of freight tolls to support this mode. Aid for combined transport is expected to amount to 27 million over the five-year period for the renovation of service routes and cargo capillary networks. That is the Government's ambition. I would add that the debate in committee has foreseen that a report on the rail freight support strategy will have to be submitted, which will be another opportunity to make progress in this area. I have heard the questions of Messrs. MEPs Pancher and Orphelin on the sustainable mobility package. The rapporteur and the Government have tabled amendments. I believe that the scheme chosen will ensure that employers take this issue of home-to-work mobility into account. I am convinced, as they are, that they have a very important role to play. I'm confident, we'll find good solutions. You asked yourself about the social responsibility of platforms, MP Pancher. Again, amendments have been tabled on which we shall return. I heard Ms. Lacroute's questions. I have many concerns from the President of the Île-de-France region, with whom, I assure you, the Member of Parliament, we have regular exchanges. We already have answers to the questions you raised. Other proposals may come to light. I also hear strong expectations about fraud, security, especially for women, who may be subjected to harassment or even sexual assault. Again, answers can be provided. On all these issues, the Government is determined to move forward with determination, in order to go as far as possible, in accordance with the rule of law, as guaranteed by the Constitution. Mr Potier, as far as the Lorrain Sillon is concerned, I can assure you that we take into account alternative modes to the road – it is also the meaning of the Franco-Luxembourg agreement which provides for a 2.5-fold increase in the number of passengers transported by rail. I would add that this Lorrain trail is in my view one of the axes on which it is relevant to think about the establishment of a real RER, just as it is the case around the metropolises of Bordeaux, Toulouse or Marseille. We have for too long neglected the importance of strengthening rail transport, and all our fellow citizens who spend hours in traffic to get to work are entitled to expect us to move forward with resolve. A report is planned on this subject by the end of the year. I have also heard the questions concerning the 80 kilometres hour; For your part, you will have noted the relaxations proposed by the text: we will be able to come back to it during the discussion of the articles. I finish by answering Mr. Lassalle on auto-schools. We all agree that driving licences must be faster to obtain and cheaper, without calling into question the quality of training. It is not a question of destabilising auto-schools, which we are accompanying to enable them, for example, to invest in simulators that must allow for cost reductions and an improvement in training for our young people. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Many issues have already been raised. I have no doubt that we will have an opportunity to discuss it again over the next few days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u64	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill. I remind you that at the request of the Government the discussion of Title I A is reserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u65	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u66	The organisation of French mobility, which we will discuss for several days, is first of all freedom – freedom to move and live where they like, freedom to choose a profession or activity according to their deep aspirations. This is where this very French concept of spatial planning, which your text, as it happens to us today, seems to ignore, makes sense. Mobility is also equal access – to employment, care or public services. It is immediately understandable why the subject was able to set fire to powder six months ago in the country, in a context marked by 80 kilometres of hours and an unprecedented increase in fuel taxes. Minister, with a great deal of communication in the regional daily press – today in Le Dauphiné libéré – you are announcing that this bill is a response to the "feel of injustice" in the territories. But it is much more than a feeling, and the territorial divide really cuts our country in half! Regulating electric scooters is probably obvious when travelling in Paris, but admit that it can make Joyeuse or Saint-Cirgues-en-Montagne smile. What I mean is that the landlocked basins and sparsely populated areas are the poor parents of this bill, even though this bill – it must be recognized – does not forget fraternity because it promotes vehicle sharing, which is another way of moving and meeting. Whether we live in town or in the village, we all want to live with our times.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u67	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u68	Elected from a rural territory that is often referred to as "forgotten of the Republic", I associate myself with what my colleagues have already said about the importance of mobility for our citizens, whether they are entrepreneurs, employees, students or pensioners. It is difficult to find a job, to continue your studies, to go to medical appointments, to develop a company without road or motorway, without a reliable TER line, without a direct TGV connection with Paris, or without a driver's license... In recent years, the modes of transport used by our citizens have evolved, while their requirements for environmental protection or safety have been strengthened. Nevertheless, in many territories, such as the Ardennes or the Cantal, it is difficult to do without a car, hence the importance of having access to the driver's licence, especially for young people. The sharing of public space between different mobilitys needs to be revisited, and the issue of cycling routes is an important issue in our communes – we will have the opportunity to come back to it during the examination of Title III. I would like to remind you, Madam Minister, that our fellow citizens living in rural communities feel legitimately targeted by the Government's fiscal and environmental policy. The 80-kilometre hours, the increasingly heavy taxes on diesel fuel, all of which penalize the inhabitants of these territories who do not have subways, buses or RERs to go to work! We deplore the lack of consistency of this text, and the absence of a clear vision of what mobility in France will have to be in the next twenty years. Our citizens expect an improvement in the supply of transport, especially in the sparsely populated and landlocked areas, in order to ensure reliable, efficient mobility, which guarantees their safety. We will be waiting for you on these different issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u69	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u70	Our citizens have high expectations about mobility. For my part, Madam Minister, I have already asked you several times about the difficulties encountered by the Liberians in travelling between Saint-Étienne and Lyon. The Interdepartmental Committee on Spatial Planning and Development of 18 December 2003 – more than 15 years ago! – nevertheless confirmed the interest of carrying out a new motorway link between Saint-Étienne and Lyon, and the A45 project was declared of public utility by the decree of 16 July 2008. The case went through all the stages of the procedure, proof of its solidity, a consultation was conducted, one candidate was selected, and the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities, ARAFER, issued a favourable opinion on the proposed concession in October 2016, as well as the Council of State in June 2017. The A45 is a structural equipment, important not only for the development of the economy of the Stéphanois metropolis and the departments of the Loire and Haute-Loire, but also for the national economy, since it is the last section of the strategic axis Lyon-Toulouse. It is also an indispensable response to the outdated, unsuitable and highly accidental nature of the A47, which is congested and partially exposed to the risk of flooding and collapse. However, the report of the Infrastructure Guidance Board, on which the report annexed to this bill is based, calls for alternative scenarios to the A45; They would even be financed from the State budget for the A45, although they do not solve the mobility difficulties encountered. The president of Saint-Étienne Métropole, the president of the departmental council and myself for the region were received by the regional prefect, with whom we discussed road and rail infrastructure. The Regional Prefect proposed to improve access and exit ramps, to create new emergency stop bands on certain sections, to develop real-time information, to create twice two lanes on the A450-A47 link, to fluidize the Ternay road node and to double the Givors bridge. At the end of these exchanges, the elected representatives of the Loire considered that these proposals for improvement were acceptable in the event of the A45 being implemented, but remained insufficient if the Government renounced this project. That is why the elected representatives have requested that the latter extend the declaration of public utility for ten years, for the time being valid until the summer of 2020. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Madam Minister, I would ask you to keep the course initially set, so that this motorway, which the inhabitants of the Loire and Haute-Loire so much need, can finally see the light of day. You cannot hold a good speech about mobility and at the same time block the realization of a solid project, very expected and whose cost is already budgeted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u71	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u72	I am pleased that we are beginning to discuss this text on mobility. It has been thirty-five years since we had a great deal of legislation on transport, and yet, as we have seen and see, mobility-related difficulties are at the heart of our citizens' concerns. Pollution, isolation, territorial divide, lack of public transport, precarious infrastructure, all of which not only poison daily life but also hinder the economic development of our territories. There were the Assises of Transport, then the Assises of the Overseas and finally the Assises of Air Transport, which included an overseas section on which our colleague Serge Letchimy has done remarkable work. In particular, he highlighted the difficulties encountered by all the populations of the overseas countries – young people, students, families – in the context of territorial continuity, especially because of the exorbitant cost of airline tickets for Hexagon. The Guadeloupees therefore expect much from this ambitious bill. In Guadeloupe as elsewhere in the overseas regions, we are waiting for investments in our roads in our infrastructure, but also in the creation of quality public transport services. We need it, we need the Government to be at the side of the major communities, first and foremost the regions, so that territorial continuity is no longer a petition of principle but a reality that no longer compromises governance issues. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] We have already discussed this, Madam Minister, and I thank you for the various answers you have already provided. I hope that our discussions over the next two weeks will make it possible to move forward effectively to improve mobility and territorial continuity in our overseas regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u73	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u74	We are dealing with a text of which there is no point in stressing the importance, whether in terms of jobs, economic vitality, the opening up of territories or the quality of life. First of all, while urban mobility is obviously essential given the demographics and concentration of transport, we must not forget or marginalise peripheral, rural, mountainous and island regions – and I am not just talking about Corsica here. Mobility is first and foremost a means of combating remoteness, because from the absence of transport comes isolation and a form of territorial destructuration which leads, in a vicious circle, to precariousness. I would then like to stress the environmental dimension of the text. As is well known, the transportation industry accounts for 29% of greenhouse gas emissions. We must therefore ensure that they are reduced in order to contribute to the fight against climate change. All the actors in our society, the state and businesses, must therefore support citizens in their efforts to preserve our planet. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] In short, what I have to say is nothing revolutionary; I would just like to highlight the essential aspects of this bill, which I will summarize in one sentence: whether we talk about transportation or mobility, the means of travel must be a tool to combat the territorial divide by providing community services and respecting the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u75	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u76	The Government presents article 1 – and the entire project – as a means of modernizing mobility and organizing it more effectively in each part of the territory. The intention is commendable; The proposed provisions still have to resist certain questions, particularly with regard to rural areas. While the aim of this text is to de-enclave low-density territories, it does not provide for any additional means or concrete solutions to ensure mobility for all. Rural areas account for 80 per cent of the total area of France. These are all areas where the car is the only mode of transport, where new bus services, new tram lines and metro lines are not expected, but new roads, both double lanes, safety improvements and, above all, regulations adapted to daily travel needs. The Government's failure in the matter of speed limitation to 80 kilometres per hour is a clear example of these loopholes in regulation: far from being effective in combating road mortality, alas! It has mainly penalized our fellow citizens by increasing their travel time and has had the effect of strengthening the enclave of the territories. I regret that the Government took so much time to trust local elected officials by allowing them to modulate the speed limit, especially since the bill that I tabled to that effect, which was then repeated with Vincent Descoeur, was rejected last June. Better late than never, though; The adoption of this provision would be a real step forward for the daily mobility of our citizens. The inhabitants expect this text, not good intentions, but modern and less expensive means of daily travel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u77	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u78	I take this opportunity to welcome the remarkable work done by local actors to develop carpooling as close as possible to the needs of the territories, in particular through search engines that mutualize requests, such as carpooling-leman.org. This mode of economic and ecological consumption is developing, but it will only be possible to combat autosolism effectively if it allows time to be saved, which is possible when dedicated routes exist, as is the case with the carpool lanes in the United States. In Haute-Savoie, we have recently accompanied a unique project in Europe: since 8 October 2018, at certain times corresponding to pendulum mobility, the left lane of a motorway is reserved in each direction for carpooling. This measure aims to reduce the effects of traffic between home and workplace along a major axis of the ATMB network – motorways and tunnels of Mont-Blanc. As we know, traffic jams are part of the daily lives of cross-border workers. Every day, no less than 22000 vehicles travel to Geneva, which saturates the passage to customs. More generally, the canton of Geneva registers daily 600,000 movements at its borders, the majority of which concern frontier workers. Thanks to this joint project between France and Switzerland, we want to be more committed to innovation in order to develop carpooling on a daily basis. We hope to reduce congestion in the city centre thanks to this proposal, which will complement the Léman Express, a cross-border RER project scheduled to be put into service on 15 December. This innovation is also part of the PACT'Air programme, a cross-border agreement designed to improve air quality in Haute-Savoie, which is of particular importance throughout Greater Geneva. This initiative, currently limited at the local level, is supported by the Haute-Savoie department. We should encourage it to be generalised, especially since my colleagues in border districts are also confronted with specific problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u79	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u80	Madam Minister, thank you for your kind and helpful response to the question of self-schools. Of course, their problems are not solved and their concern persists, which you yourself have recognized, but an answer is always good. I'm so used to receiving answers, and even having the opportunity to ask questions... You are not responsible for this, Mr President, but I think I am doing it less and less – in fact, soon we will not be able to speak here. Let's go back to the subject. Since we are in good shape – I see positive waves – I invite you to re-introduce an old project to connect Pau, head of department, to Oloron-Sainte-Marie, sub-prefecture. While it was financed, environmental obstacles have in fact made this beautiful project fail, which, even from the concessionaire's admission, is the least expensive part of the programme in which it was established, the Bordeaux-Pau link. It would therefore cost virtually nothing to the public authorities, but what a difference it would be, on the other hand, for Oloron-Sainte-Marie and the neighbouring valleys, now far too isolated to develop! In addition, the creation of the Somport tunnel has made it necessary to improve the tracks south of Oloron. The problem of diversion needs to be solved and this dangerous road secured, since trucks fall two or three times a year into the Gave and poison it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u81	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u82	Article 1, which sets out the guiding principles for the organization of transport, is intended to replace the concept of the right to transport with that of the right to mobility. Far from being anecdotal, this change of word reflects a paradigm shift: the state thus exempts itself from the requirement to make effective the right to transport for all and equal treatment between territories. While we all see the urgency of improving the quality of the supply and the state of the infrastructure, whether it be passenger or freight transport, the Government's solutions are in contrast to reality and with social or environmental expectations: it is convinced that the train and the unlicensed national road network must serve the major cities between them, the rest being the responsibility of the regions through the mobility authorities. The solutions proposed in the bill relate to modes of transport, mainly on the road – buses, carpooling, financing of permits, vehicles, bicycles, etc. In this it is in line with the railway pact whose application could lead to the removal of 9,000 kilometres of railway lines outside the outskirts of metropolitan areas. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Dominique Potier also applauds]] The regions will decide where they will deploy the financial resources based on the regional planning, sustainable development and equality of territories. Mobility needs are considered under the sole prism of efficiency for companies, the contribution of which is limited to the maximum. With regard to other travel needs – those of families, for example – you are the absent subscribers. The same applies to the challenges of spatial planning or the fight against social divides, as shown by your lack of interest in free public transport and the lack of ambition in favour of a coherent grid of the territory allowing a public transport offer accessible to all. These issues are either delegated or privatized. We cannot follow you in this way of detricting the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u83	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u84	The third priority in the report appended to your bill is to speed up the road clearance of medium-sized cities and rural territories. We all share this concern, but I would like you to clarify, Madam Minister, on behalf of the Government, what the concrete effects of such a choice will be. It is thus stated that "the State plans [...] to carry out a programme concerning some 20 road routes within the contracts of the State-region plan, for a total amount of EUR 1 billion over 10 years, intended to improve the quality of the service provided by the national road network of medium-sized cities and rural territories". I would like to make it clear that the southern bypass of the city of Auxerre, a veritable Arlesian in the Yonne, is a real priority. I explained a few days ago the need for the Director General of Transport Infrastructure. On behalf of the elected representatives and the inhabitants of Yonne, I would like to know the timetable and the financing plan for this circumvention. The time has come, after many studies, to bring together – under your presidency or that of the Director General of Infrastructure – the potential partners involved in this project of general interest, whose completion is indispensable for improving the quality of life of the inhabitants of the agglomeration of Auxerre and for the development of the territory of Yonne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u85	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2651 and 1140, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 2651.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u86	With this amendment, we do not want the concept of mobility to replace that of transport. You want to erase the concept of the right to transport, this fundamental right of every citizen which, to be fully recognised, involves planning by the State and the development of public services. The new concept you are defending, that of mobility, is more in line with the proliferation of private offers and tends to make the right to travel a simple economic opportunity for start-ups. Thus, the "Macron buses", which we have experienced bitterly, will have served initially as an alibi to remove the railway lines before abandoning these same services, leaving the inhabitants without any choice other than the car. Today, there are only two companies in the sector, less than four years after the liberalisation of long-distance bus transport, which demonstrates the limits of openness to competition. Furthermore, in its opinion, the Council of State stresses the lack of a definition of the concept of mobility, which in this text has either a broad meaning encompassing transport or a narrow meaning between new mobility services and public passenger transport services. In doubt, we remain on the side of those who defend access to rights and we call for the notion of transport to be maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u87	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1140.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u88	Mobility is certainly a very modern concept which extends to concepts other than transport alone, but transport covers specific realities, especially in rural areas, which are sparsely densified, where, in the absence of public transport networks comparable to those existing in urban areas, we will always need effective means to move. This amendment is a call for you to confirm that, everywhere in France, in the sparsely densified territories or in urban areas – but especially in rural areas – the state and the authorities organising mobility will take transport needs into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u90	For different reasons, La France insoumée and Les Républicains express the same request concerning the right to transport. Let us remember that we do not substitute mobility for the right to transport, whose principle we retain. We simply add the concept of mobility, which is more widely understood and concerns more people. There is no question of abolishing public transport. I invite you to withdraw these amendments, otherwise I will be against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u92	I do not share the assertion that in rural areas self-solism is the only solution. On the contrary, new mobility must be primarily developed in areas where public transport has obviously not responded. The examples given, such as carpooling promoted by ATMB or the one developed by companies in the Arve Valley, clearly show that it is a matter of going beyond the concept of transport to a broader concept, mobility. This, of course, does not go back to the right to transport, but gives an effective right in territories where, until now, and for decades, our citizens have been abandoned to the whole car. While they have told us strongly that this situation can no longer be sustained, the purpose of the bill is to bring about other solutions, building on all the new mobilitys and making the most of innovation. Autonomous shuttles are not reserved for large cities: in my mind – this is the meaning of the experiments that we are conducting, for example in the community of communes of the heart of Brenne – these new mobility solutions will enable us to provide answers in all the territories. Opinions against these two amendments, because the concept of mobility is very important for our citizens, especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u93	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u94	Mr rapporteur, you were surprised at our agreement with LR. Now, stand tight! Not only are the Republicans and France unsuspecting pursuing the same objective through these two amendments, but the Council of State itself shares our reading – I stressed it by defending the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u95	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 2412.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u96	We would be wrong to smile at this amendment, which takes up an initiative of the Socialist Group in the Senate, notably Olivier Jacquin. It deals with equal access to mobility. In the poorest territories, sometimes in the same village, there are very mobile people who, through their cultural, economic and social capital, may have travelled around the world several times at the age of 25, and others for whom access to the neighbouring city remains a cultural or practical challenge. For others, joining their apartment is difficult, because once in two or three the elevator is broken. These problems are totally disregarded, whereas in a transport policy bill, one cannot be indifferent to vertical mobility, which is that of everyday life. This amendment shows a concern for the most fragile and least mobile, those for whom the stairs are mounted is a test. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Vertical mobility must be taken into account alongside horizontal mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u98	You have taken up an amendment by the Socialist senators on the problem of elevators. I share your concern: it is very annoying, even penalizing, not to be able to access his apartment in a comfortable way when the elevator is broken. However, as honourable senators have been told, this amendment is more of a housing issue than a transportation issue. I therefore ask you to withdraw it, failing which I shall express an unfavorable opinion on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u99	It's starting well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u100	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor to support Amendment No. 381.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u101	The aim of this text is to update our mobility policies. However, the difficulties faced by our citizens in gaining access to adequate transport and the levers of mobility to digital technology, when teleworking is a solution to reduce the use of transport, reflect the fact that the first response to travel needs is spatial planning. Our first reflex, in response to our travel needs, is often to bring the work closer to the workers or the services of the population. In 2004, according to INSEE, three out of four employees worked outside their municipality of residence. The figures in the peri-urban kroner and in the kroner of the rural-dominated employment poles are nearly 87%. Spatial planning is part of the major challenges facing the society of tomorrow, namely the ecological transition and the energy transition, economic development and the social dimension. It enables natural data and the needs of future generations to be taken into account. The first of the answers to mobility needs is to no longer need, or less need, to move. That is why this text must offer a clear answer to the question of spatial planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u103	Since this provision has no normative scope, I request that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u105	Indeed, the best mobility is avoided: by acting on land-use planning, it is possible to avoid travel that would be costly and generate greenhouse gas emissions. However, this amendment does not seem to me to have its place in this article on the right to transport. The issue of spatial planning will be more relevant when we deal with general transport policy or with the objectives of infrastructure programming. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment, to the benefit of the discussions that we may have on other points of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u106	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 29, 280, 449, 463, 490, 581, 628, 741, 1077, 1396, 1459, 3252 and 235, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 29, 280, 449, 463, 490, 581, 628, 741, 1077, 1396, 1459 and 3252 are identical. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u107	It aims to include among the objectives of infrastructure programming the necessary opening up of mountain massifs which, like the Central Massif, suffer from a certain delay with regard to road services. These massifs must benefit first and foremost from the project that you have posted, Madam Minister, to which I agree, to give priority to the regeneration of the network.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u108	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor in support of the identical amendment No. 280.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u109	I would like to mention, in my turn, the daily mobility and fluidity of road traffic in mountain massifs, which are a real problem, as Virginie Duby-Muller pointed out. I have had the opportunity to talk to you on several occasions, Madam Minister. In some massifs, we live in situations of congestion that penalize us in various ways. Since border roads are often economic roads, congestion is disrupting the economic life of the territories, while seriously penalizing the daily lives of the inhabitants of these mountains. We are waiting for road developments on the RN57, which crosses the Jura massif. We do not ask for twice two lanes over the entire linear, but slots of overtaking would be welcome. They are even expected, for certain portions, for more than half a century. We expect a lot from this mobility orientation bill. Madam Minister, from a methodological point of view, it may be appropriate, in the studies to be carried out with a view to making investment choices, to pay particular attention to the cross-border territories in which the question of mobility is becoming acute. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] I hope that the examination of this text will be an opportunity for you to state that you are fully aware of the particular problem of road congestion, which makes traffic in the mountains a real hell.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u110	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 449.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u111	Mountain areas have both significant advantages and natural handicaps, particularly in terms of mobility. The aim of this amendment is therefore to include, among the objectives of infrastructure programming, the importance of de-enclavement, for the mountain massifs which are particularly affected by it, and the improvement of daily mobility within the massifs by fluidising road traffic. I would add that investment in the road network is much more important in these territories than in flat territories. In the Alps, we suffer regular road collapses, for which, systematically, it is necessary to invest the money of the local taxpayer. It is also necessary to build viaducts and bridges. Only by adopting these amendments would it be possible to recognise the specific nature of mountain areas in terms of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u112	Identical amendments No 463 by Mr Jean-Yves Bony and No 490 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie are being defended. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 581.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u113	We will address on several occasions the specificity of the mountain territories and the importance of the means dedicated to their opening up. As regards the RN102, which serves the mountain, we agree, Madam Minister, with your objective of regenerating the road network of the mountainous mountains: on the RN102, which is the competence of the state, under Teil, in the 21st century, two heavy goods vehicles still do not cross.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u114	The identical amendments No 628 by Mr Vincent Rolland and No 741 by Mr Jean Lassalle were defended. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 1077.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u115	It aims to include, among the objectives of infrastructure programming, the importance of clearing up for the mountain massifs which are particularly affected by it and the improvement of daily mobility within the massifs by fluidising road traffic, particularly in border areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u116	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 1396.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u117	It aims to include, among the objectives of infrastructure programming, the importance of de-enclavement for the mountain massifs which are particularly affected by it and the improvement of daily mobility within the massifs by fluidising road traffic, particularly in border areas, such as that of the Pyrénées-Orientales by my colleague Louis Aliot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u118	I call Mr Demilly to support Amendment No. 1459.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u119	In the wake of the identical amendments already advocated by my colleagues, Descoeur, Bonnivard and Cinieri, the aim is also to include among the objectives of infrastructure planning the importance of de-enclavement for the mountain massifs which are particularly affected by it and the improvement of daily mobility within the massifs by fluidising road traffic, particularly in border areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u120	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support the identical amendment No. 3252.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u121	Don't be surprised that so many parliamentarians, including Marie-Noëlle Battistel, defend these amendments whose legitimacy is very great: the question of the fluidity of traffic in the mountain massifs must be taken into account. It is appropriate, Madam Minister, to include it in the objectives of infrastructure programming. It concerns the daily travels that are dear to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u122	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 235, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u123	The aim of this amendment is to include among the objectives of infrastructure programming the importance of opening up mountain ranges and island territories. One could say that it is the Ardèche and Corsica combined: mobility and Castagniccia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u125	We have discussed these amendments at length in committee. I would like to reassure you once again that the provisions of this bill relating to the opening up of borders apply to all territories, including the mountains and the islands. The initial drafting of article L. 1111-3 of the Transport Code already required that the issues of de-enclavement and spatial planning be taken into account in the planning of infrastructure. The Senate added the issues of territorial attractiveness, combating climate change, protecting biodiversity, combating air pollution, and the committee approved these additions. The Senate has also added an explicit mention of mountain ranges and island territories, yet included in the concept of de-enclavement, and our commission has retained it. I therefore believe that the current wording is sufficiently clear, and that this already ambitious list should not be extended further. In addition, additional specificities may, however, lead to a failure to take into account the specificities that would not be included. So, and I can blame all these amendments, why mention only the road mode in order to unblock it? As in committee, I am sending an opinion against all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u127	I fully agree with the rapporteur. The concept of de-enclavement, including mountain massifs, is explicitly included in the relevant subparagraph. The adoption of these amendments would only lead to the exclusion of rail transport as a means of unhindering mountain massifs. I am surprised that you wanted this, when some groups blame us for not being ambitious enough in the fight against climate change and pollution. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u128	There will be other amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u129	One mode of transport does not exclude the other!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u130	We have to under-amend!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u131	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1895.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u132	This is an appeal amendment, which aims to remind us that the new line between Montpellier, Béziers and Perpignan is an indispensable element for the development and the opening-up of the western Herault – you cannot blame me for excluding rail transport as a lever of unenclavement! Currently, rail services are no longer in line with increasing flows of goods or people. Our territories are not served equitably, which increases inequalities between them and does not effectively combat the growing impoverishment of certain areas. The passage of the high-speed line – LGV – to Béziers would allow our city in the south of France to benefit from an economic and human dynamism that should no longer be reserved for the metropolises alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u134	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u136	Same opinion. I have noted that this is an appeal amendment, but the line between Montpellier and Perpignan is already mentioned in infrastructure programming, and the Government is ready to work with the communities on funding arrangements to speed up its implementation. We will have the opportunity, during the discussion, to mention the project companies that could be set up to speed it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u137	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 3311.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u138	Madam Minister, in your response to the general debate, I looked for a reference to overseas, in vain. Maybe I didn't pay enough attention. The purpose of this amendment is to introduce the concept of "isolated territories". In French Guiana, there are no mountains, but certain situations may have similar peculiarities, such as these communes completely isolated from the rest of the territory, which are accessible only by river, three or four days of navigation, or by helicopter, at a price of 2500 or 3000 euros per hour. For these French citizens who are completely isolated from the rest of the world, I would like special attention to be paid to the territory of Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u140	The concept of de-enclavement, which has already been included in the text, concerns, by definition, isolated territories. I therefore consider this amendment to be satisfactory, and I ask you to withdraw it. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u142	Same opinion. Ultramarine territories are well taken into account. Moreover, your next amendment makes it possible to take better account of their specificities. I propose that this amendment be withdrawn for the benefit of point 3312.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u143	I call Mr Serville to support Amendment No. 3312.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u144	The aim is to clarify how issues related to ultramarine territories are taken into account in infrastructure programming. If the mention of island territories in the current wording includes almost all of these territories, it effectively excludes Guyana, whose territory is not an island, contrary to what the President of the Republic had said! Guyana is well on the continent and has very specific situations, which require special attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u146	This amendment provides an important drafting clarification, particularly for Guyana. We are sensitive and therefore in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u147	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1395 and 3108. I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 1395.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u148	Infrastructure programming must take into account the specific territorial characteristics of each region, be they economic or geographical. Medium and high mountain areas are not subject to the same constraints, as are rural and island areas, which are increasingly neglected by public planning policies. In these territories, the use of the car is an absolute necessity, the cost of which continues to rise. The fight for the environment is a laudable objective, but it must not be pursued to the detriment of the poorest French, the rural and mountain people furthest from the major cities, who do not pollute more than the others, but pay the double price. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u149	Amendment No 3108 by Mr Viala is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u150	Like the previous amendments, they are satisfied. I ask that it be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u151	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 522.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u152	You deplored earlier, Madam Minister, that we are not sufficiently interested in the train. The aim of this amendment is precisely to improve road and rail mobility in border areas. In this respect, I would like to give you the example of Lyria, the SNCF sector, which is the majority shareholder. This company, which manages the links between France and Switzerland, wishes to abolish the services of the railway link between Paris and Lausanne, in particular that of Frasne, in the Doubs. This likely decision is totally contrary to the bill's objective of opening up mountain areas and border areas. I take note of, and thank you for, your interest in these territories. May you give substance to it by weighing all your political weight so that the SNCF will influence the decision of Lyria society. It is unilaterally and contrary to the tasks entrusted to it by the SNCF, that the SNCF is preparing to reduce the rail supply, and thus to put the Jura massif at a disadvantage. This is a concrete example of proper mobility for a border mountain territory, whose weakening will seriously damage our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u154	We have heard your plea about this very particular situation. The minister will certainly give you a supplementary answer, but I would point out that cross-border issues are already mentioned explicitly in the text. I therefore consider the amendment to be satisfactory and ask you to withdraw it. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u156	The cross-border issues are already mentioned in paragraph 5, but I have in mind your concern about the desert by Lyria society. I can assure you that I have had the opportunity to call the attention of the president of the SNCF to the need to leave time for a reorganization of deserts, to which the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region is working. In this case, I believe that your amendment is satisfactory and proposes that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u157	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u158	Thank you for your answer, but I will not withdraw this amendment. In your dialogue with the President of SNCF, we need more than an invitation to pay particular attention to the issue. The choice of SNCF, which clearly gives Lyria a good reason, must really be politically influenced. The removal of a quarter of the supply makes it less attractive; It will therefore be less used. Under a basic law, a massif that is not properly irrigated is bypassed. This is precisely what could happen, since users would not find a satisfactory offer, such as the possibility of going back and forth to Paris during the day as part of business trips. In addition, this reduction in supply is accompanied by a change in schedules. By removing a train, Lyria makes a misguided score, hoping to catch the customers of the previous and the next. But it doesn't work like that! Economic customers want to be able to go back and forth to Paris during the day, and this offer is no longer available. Thus, without the roads we need – I mentioned the RN57 – and with fewer trains, which is absolutely contrary to the policy you promote in terms of clean mobility and public transport, we will be doubly losers. That is why I wanted to table two separate amendments to Article 1(5): one in favour of fluidity in border areas, the other in order to draw your attention to the Lyria company, which is about to weaken the rail supply in the Jura massif.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u159	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 149.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u160	The aim of Mr Rolland's amendment is to take into account school card issues in infrastructure programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u161	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 3217.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u162	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe's amendment proposes adding the notion of territorial continuity in order to take better account of the difficulties of access in certain island territories or very far from the centres of activity. This notion of territorial continuity is not superfetoire. It corresponds to an important public service principle, provided for both in the European Treaties and regulations and in our national legislation, in particular with regard to air routes. It should therefore be explicitly referred to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u164	The principle of territorial continuity is already explicitly enshrined in our law, and the bill does not call it into question. The amendment is therefore satisfied. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u165	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 88.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u166	The aim of this amendment is to provide that the geographical areas covered by an atmospheric protection plan – PPP – will be given priority in terms of investment for future transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u168	Article 1(a) of the draft law sets out a number of objectives for financial and operational planning of investments in transport, including modal delay, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, pollution control and road congestion control. Article L. 1111-3 of the Transport Code, in its wording provided for in Article 1 of the draft law, explicitly includes in the planning of infrastructures a consideration of the issues involved in the fight against air pollution. I therefore consider that the concern expressed by this amendment is satisfied. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u169	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u170	France currently has 38 plans to protect the atmosphere. In jurisdictions where regulatory limit values are exceeded or are likely to be exceeded, regulatory, local and concrete measures are implemented to reduce air pollutant emissions. This amendment therefore provides, as the previous one, that the geographical areas covered by a PPP will be priority in terms of investment for future railway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u172	The same argument as on Amendment No 88. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u173	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u174	This Martial Saddier amendment provides that cross-border areas will be given priority in terms of investment for future transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u175	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1160.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u176	In the same spirit as the amendment I defended earlier, it is a matter of identifying rural and mountain areas far from the major cities as priorities for investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u177	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2009 and 2440. Mrs Justine Benin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2009.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u178	The purpose of this amendment is to retain at least one public transport service per service. Some territories, in particular overseas territories, have not yet organised or are in the process of developing alternative mobility solutions to meet the population's mobility needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u179	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 2440.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u180	I could tell you about the port areas, in particular the first port of France, since I hear that everyone is referring to the situation in his constituency. I hope we have the opportunity to return. Amendment No 2440 deals with sparsely populated areas. The bill provides for the expansion of the provision of mobility services to ensure the networking of low-density territories. You therefore want to fill the shortage of public transport services with individual and private mobility solutions. We share, of course, the objective of responding to mobility needs in sparsely populated areas, but we fear that the mobility solutions you are putting forward will lead to increased social and territorial inequalities. Public authorities must be the scrupulous guarantor of the right to transport for all and of equality between regions, metropolises, cities and the countryside. It is therefore the duty of the State to engage in a public transport policy, in line with the aspirations of our fellow citizens, and the environmental challenges. In this context, mobility solutions must be in the strictest complementarity with the public transport offer; In no case may they constitute an alternative or a palliative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u183	Article 1, paragraph 6, as adopted in committee, sets out the objective of "a network of low-density territories through the organization of services [...] by at least one public transport service or by the organization of mobility solutions to meet the population's travel needs". By replacing "or" with "as well as", these amendments would require that, in all cases, for all territories, there be not only at least one public service, but also mandatory alternative mobility options. However, as Mrs Benin has said, this is not yet the case in all the territories. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u185	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u186	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 239, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u187	The purpose of this common sense amendment is to take account of employment areas or living areas rather than administrative boundaries, so that the text fits as closely as possible with daily movements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u189	Mr Brun, we agree with you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u190	I'm glad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u191	...for once! We all know that the appropriate scale does not correspond to the administrative boundaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u192	But?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u193	Indeed, Mr. Brun, there is a "but"! That is the notion of a mobility pool that we have retained in clause 4 of the bill. It will therefore be up to the local authorities, who will define and delimit each mobility pool, to take into account the issues mentioned in this amendment. Decentralization is an important part of this text. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u195	Indeed, we must trust the territories. That is the meaning of Article 4 which the rapporteur has just referred to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u196	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2010.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u197	I have heard the explanations of our colleague rapporteur, however, I cannot fail to defend this new amendment by Mr Mathiasin, which aims to retain at least one public transport service by service in our overseas territories. These territories are lagging behind in the construction of road infrastructure, particularly those dedicated to clean public transport and active mobility. It is therefore essential to give them time to organise and develop mobility solutions other than the public transport service to meet the population's mobility needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u198	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u199	You will agree, Mrs Benin, that this amendment would make the organisation of public services mandatory. I am therefore unfavorable, and I note that the bill does not in any way call into question existing public service services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u200	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1224, 1225, 543, 665, 819, 830, 836 and 1255, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 543, 665, 819, 830, 836 and 1255 are identical. Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor to support Amendments Nos 1224 and 1225, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u201	These appeal amendments are intended to introduce into the bill a national goal of de-enclavement. Article 17 of the Regional Planning and Development Policy Act of 4 February 1995 had created a national goal of de-enclavement. It provided that no part of the French mainland metropolitan territory should be situated "more than 50 kilometres or 45 minutes away from an express highway or road twice two lanes in continuity with the national network, or from a station served by the high-speed rail network. » In 1999, this national goal of de-enclavement was abolished. My two amendments are therefore aimed at restoring it in order to guide public investment and mobility choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u202	Amendment No 543 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine is being defended. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 665.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u203	This appeal amendment deals with the provision of services to low-density territories. He proposed that, as of December 31, 2025, no metropolitan territory should be located more than 50 kilometres or 45 minutes from a living pool, or more than 60 minutes from a TGV station. It's ambitious, but it's about our ability to open up a number of French rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u204	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 819.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u205	In the same spirit as Mr Sermier has just defended, my amendment aims to ensure balanced development of French territory by providing for equal access to the country's main routes of travel, i.e. an LGV or a motorway.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u206	I call Mr Descoeur to support Amendment No. 830.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u207	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] It aims to reintroduce a principle of spatial planning. I have heard the minister's response in committee and her refusal to make commitments that she would fear being unable to meet in terms of travel time. However, we must respond to those who despair, for whom the sense of abandonment is more a matter of experience than of feeling.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u208	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 836.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u209	That is the same amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u210	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of the identical amendment No. 1255, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u211	This amendment proposes to reintroduce the principle of spatial planning proposed by the Senate at first reading. In a department like the Ardèche, which has 330,000 inhabitants and is not crossed by any passenger train or motorway, it is an amendment that counts a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u212	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u213	As you have indicated, this series of amendments is intended to reintroduce a paragraph which we have deleted in committee because the provision contained a series of purely quantitative objectives, with an all-mechanical application, in an unrealistic timetable, without control or sanction, and advocated new developments in the high-speed rail network, when we are willing to get out of the TGV. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on this series of amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u214	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u215	The aim is to re-establish the objectives contained in the 1995 Pasqua Act. However, the inclusion of these objectives in the law has absolutely not accelerated the opening up of the territories: for those who have been promised passages twice two ways, such as Lozère or Brittany, this has had no consequence. It seems to me more important to have infrastructure programming, including a € 1 billion clearance plan, as set out in this law, rather than displaying targets without specifying the means to do so. I therefore propose that the amendments be withdrawn, failing which I will deliver an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u216	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u217	In order to get out of the TGV, Mr rapporteur, we still have to have access to it! Some territories, such as in the Cantal – of which the minister, who has moved there, knows the situation very well – are two and a half hours away from the first TGV station and, one hour after taking her vehicle, there is still no motorway.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u218	That's our territory!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u219	Hence the idea, without being able to make too ambitious commitments, of reminding us of the need for a certain level of equity. The best way to do this is by including it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u220	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u221	That makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u222	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u223	Mr Descoeur, you have understood that I have made a general reply to the series of amendments. With the discussion we have had in this House, the elected representatives of all sides, particularly in our communities, will have heard the call you have made and will do everything possible to implement what you are proposing. In addition, the infrastructure that the Minister has just announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u224	If the answer is that elected officials must manage...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u225	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u226	I don't want to monopolize the debate, but we can't be told that communities just have to pull up their sleeves, because it's not a solution. Access to a high-speed line or highway is the responsibility and duty of the state – that's how it must be seen, because communities cannot be asked to try to resolve this issue. There is a magnificent map of France that highlights territorial inequalities in terms of unblocking: the isochronous map, which takes account of TGV stations. Avignon is there in Seine-et-Marne and the departments of the Central Massif on the Spanish border.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u227	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u228	I have noted the rapporteur's explanations and I withdraw my amendments Nos 1224 and 1225.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u229	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 980, 1684 and 1831. I call Mr Buchou to support Amendment No. 980.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u230	In the same spirit as what has just been said, this amendment tends to provide for a precise territorial diagnosis which will identify, on a case-by-case basis, those parts of the national territory which do not fall within the accessibility criteria for balanced spatial planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u231	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1684.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u232	This amendment follows our reflection on the previous ones. We thought that it was necessary to open up the sparsely populated territories with the greatest difficulties, but you did not accept these amendments. We now wish to have at least an update on this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u233	Amendment No 1831 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u234	Paragraph 7, which set unachievable quantitative targets, was deleted. These identical amendments therefore concern a principle of spatial planning which no longer exists. On the other hand, through the implementing decree provided for in Article 1 C, which will define the tasks, organisation and operation of the Infrastructure Organisation Board, your concerns will be met. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u235	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1901.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u236	This is again an appeal amendment, which still concerns the Montpellier-Béziers-Perpignan section, which, as you understand, is very dear to me. If I may insist on this, it is because the TGV line between Montpellier and Béziers is the only way to reduce congestion on the current line and to multiply the trains of the daily. Similarly, we must fight pollution, and therefore develop rail freight. That is precisely what is planned. The high-speed line between Montpellier and Béziers will be mixed, bringing both passengers and freight. I heard, minister, that you were prepared to discuss with the communities concerned how to speed up the implementation of this line. Can you tell me a little bit more and tell me when you're considering things?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u237	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u238	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u240	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u241	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u242	I would like to insist, because I do not know if the minister has heard my question. Can she give me a little more details on the time frame within which she is considering things?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u243	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u244	We will have an opportunity to discuss these issues when we deal with amendments relating, in particular, to project companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u245	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 30, 134, 281, 450, 464, 495, 583, 596, 1080, 1460, 3110 and 3253. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u246	The aim of the ANEM amendment, the National Association of Mountain Elected Persons, is to ensure that in the field of transport policy, infrastructure management or public transport organisation, the National Mountain Council or Massif Committees are consulted so that the specificities of the mountain can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u247	Identical amendments Nos 134 by Mr Vincent Rolland and 281 by Mrs Annie Genevard are being defended. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 450.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u248	The aim of this amendment is to recall that in the field of transport policy, in particular with regard to the construction and management of infrastructure, as well as the organisation of public transport, the State has an obligation to consult the National Mountain Council, and that the competent territorial authorities consult the Massif Committees, in order to take account of the specific nature of mountain areas in the field of transport and mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u249	Identical amendments No 464 by Mr Jean-Yves Bony and No 495 by Mrs Jeanine Dubie are being defended. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor to support Amendment No. 583.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u250	Let me stress that another way of integrating the specificities of mountain areas in terms of mobility is to include in the text the obligation for the State to consult the National Mountain Council and, for local and regional authorities, to consult the Massif Committees at their level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u251	Amendment No 596 by Mr Martial Saddier is being defended. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 1080.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u252	This drafting amendment seeks to clarify that, in accordance with Articles 1, 6 and 7 of Act No. 85-30 of 9 January 1985 on the development and protection of mountains, the State consults the National Mountain Council for its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u253	I call Mr Demilly to support Amendment No. 1460.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u254	As my colleagues Bonnivard and Brun have said, this amendment advocates consultation. It is intended to recall that in transport policy, in particular with regard to the implementation and management of infrastructure and the organisation of public transport, the State has an obligation to consult the National Mountain Council, and that the territorial authorities responsible for mobility consult the Massif Committees for their opinions, to take account, as far as possible, of the specific nature of mountain areas in terms of transport and mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u255	Identical amendments Nos 3110 by Mr Arnaud Viala and 3253 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u256	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] As far as the State is concerned, this amendment merely repeats what the existing law already provides. It is therefore unnecessary for the legislator to be redundant. As far as local authorities are concerned, we have spoken at length in committee and say that we have no doubt that the elected representatives will consult the Massif Committees. Let us trust those elected on the ground. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u257	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1490, 3363 and 242, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1490 and 3363 are identical. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 1490.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u258	This amendment has been reworked by the GART, the Grouping of Transport Authorities, in particular following our discussions in committee. By retaining the possibility, for municipalities already operating transport services, of remaining mobility organising authorities – AOM – Article 1 could lead to a situation contrary to the original objective, leaving areas where the readability of mobility offers would be undermined. In order to avoid this, the amendment aims to ensure that municipalities can no longer be organising authorities for mobility beyond 30 June 2020, with the exception of so-called "isolated" municipalities, i.e. not members of an EPCI, or public institution for intercommunal cooperation, with own taxation. I am thinking in particular of the maritime islands made up of a single commune. In order to ensure the continuity of local transport services, the municipalities which exercised their AOM competence and had formed a public transport network by levying the transport payment will therefore have to automatically transfer this competence to their own tax EPCI by 1 July 2021 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u259	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 3363.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u260	This amendment, as Mr Pancher explained, tends to make the coverage of the entire territory by a mobility organizing authority more readable and effective. There are still some 60 municipalities which exercise this competence, but this often goes beyond the mere perimeter of the municipality. It therefore seems to us appropriate to transfer this competence to the EPCI, which will be AOM. This measure would make this transport competence more effective. In fact, some lines sometimes leave the municipality to serve schools or a station, and it seems more efficient to entrust this transport competence to the EPCI, rather than to the municipality. The work done by the GART on this issue has been submitted to us in the context of exchanges which have taken place in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u261	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 242, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u262	This amendment gives me the opportunity to reaffirm the advent of the region-intercommunal couple. It tends to foresee, as has been explained, the transfer of transport competence, with a dual aim of securing the text and of improving the efficiency of the organization of transport in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u264	I do not understand correctly, but perhaps I misunderstood them, the identical amendments made by Mrs Lacroute by Mr Pancher. For me, they question two important provisions of Article 1. The first leaves communities of communes with a delay running until the end of 2020 to decide whether or not to take over the competence to organise mobility – basically, the amendment amounts to removing six months from them. The second allows some 60 municipalities to maintain transport services which they themselves have organised in the event that a region becomes AOM by replacing the intercommunality of which these municipalities are members. In order to preserve these two important provisions of Article 1, I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to the two identical amendments. As for Amendment No 242, it is the result of a misunderstanding of what Article 1 currently provides for. The text we have adopted in committee will have the effect of making intercommunities the reference mobility organising authorities instead of the municipalities which, under the present law, all have the legal status of AOM but many do not want or can effectively exercise that competence. After 1 July 2021, only the four monocommunal islands that are not part of an intercommunality may continue to be AOM municipalities if they do not transfer this competence to an intercommunality. All the other municipalities will lose the legal qualification of AOM by that date at the latest, because in their territory the AOM will then be either the intercommunality or the region. However, in the meantime, Article 1e grants the right to municipalities which have themselves organised their own transport services to continue to provide them. However, the amendment would remove this possibility. So I'm asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u266	This amendment poses a real problem since it contravenes all the rules governing the taking of powers at inter-municipal level. It would be sufficient for a municipality to organise a regular line before December 2020 to force the decision of the whole community of communes. I understand that this amendment could resolve a number of cases, but it would be at the expense of non-compliance with the freedom of decision of the other municipalities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u267	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u268	It would be regrettable, at this late hour, to leave on a misunderstanding. In view of the arguments put forward by the rapporteur and by the minister, I withdraw the amendment, hoping that my understanding of future amendments will also benefit them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u269	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u270	Perhaps, indeed, we do not understand ourselves: the objective is to be efficient in terms of transport and to cover the widest possible scope. Clearly, this amendment proposes that by 1 July 2021, at the latest, the EPCIs should be responsible for transport, instead of their member communes, in order not to allow a municipality to organise its transport service alone. The question of 30 June does not arise: a municipality can set up a transport service, and the transfer to the EPCI will take place on 1 July 2021. [[Mr Lionel Causse applauds]] In terms of efficiency, it would be a shame to allow municipalities to organise their transport alone, even though the lines often leave the perimeters of the communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u271	Amendment No 1036 by Mr Bruno Millienne, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u272	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor to support Amendment No. 2170.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u273	This amendment responds to what is expected of this bill and which was expressed throughout the afternoon in the general discussion: that intercommunals can really acquire and exercise mobility skills, linked and pivotal to the regions. It is proposed to give communities of communes the mobility competence available to agglomeration communities. This would allow them to join trade unions that bring together communities of agglomeration and are now experiencing successes. It is well known that mobility is successful in agglomeration communities, but that communities of communes are experiencing great difficulties. The idea, with this amendment, is therefore to allow the communities of communes to have this competence and, if they do not exercise it and if they so wish, to transfer it to the region. So we could move forward and avoid certain difficulties. The elections held last week have clearly shown that rural areas must no longer be left without the possibility of mobility, and that no white areas should remain in our territory. None!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u275	We have discussed at length in committee a similar amendment which has been rejected. If I understand your explanations correctly, the aim is to include the competence to organise mobility in the list of compulsory competences of the communities of communes. The logic chosen in the bill is quite different: to move towards full and effective coverage of the territory by AOMs which will, in principle, be the intercommunities and sometimes, by substitution, the regions. However, in accordance with the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities, the text which we adopted in committee leaves to the municipalities members of a community of communes the right to deliberate on the transfer of powers. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u277	The general principle underlying the text is really to leave it to the communes to deliberate according to the usual rules with a view to raising competence to the level of intercommunality. Otherwise, the region intervenes, as a substitute, in the territory of intercommunality. I have in mind that, in some cases, a commune that is a member of the intercommunality can block this acquisition of competence through intercommunality. However, it has been seen how, under the NOTRE Act, certain forced transfers of powers from municipalities to intercommunal communities have led to dissatisfaction in all territories. Therefore, with regard to the particular case that you, like me, have in mind, it would probably be up to the prefect to put the actors concerned around the table. In fact, we exchanged with the prefect in question. Named two months ago, he hasn't taken up the subject yet, but he's going to do it, at our request. In any case, we cannot change this philosophy, which seems essential to me and which is the result of the discussions we have had with all the associations of elected representatives, that it is really up to the communes to raise this competence. We cannot force majority rules or go back to the general rules of transfer of powers to intercommunalities. For the case you have in mind, Mr. Causse, a solution must be found elsewhere. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment and allow the Prefect to carry out this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u278	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u279	In reply to the rapporteur, I am very committed to the principle of the free administration of local authorities, and it is a matter of doing the same for communities of communes as for communities of agglomeration. Today, the latter have this jurisdiction of their own. What you are doing today is giving the communities of agglomeration competence by allowing communities of communes to manage, with blocking minorities that have the result of preventing the most rural territories, which have the smallest communes, from making their choice. The free administration of communities is all the more guaranteed as I propose a possibility of transfer to the region if the communities of communes do not wish to exercise it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u280	I call Mr Bruno to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u281	I understand the problem, Mr Causse, and, knowing that you are suffering it in your territory, I understand all the more that you wanted to see this amendment come to fruition. I am going to be redundant with what the minister has just said: we cannot start from your particular case – which is not simple and which we have discussed many times, also outside the committee – to impose a general solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u282	This is not the only case, there are others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u283	Even if it happens to happen again, other solutions must be found. One of them, as I mentioned in my opening remarks during the general discussion, is to give a role to the prefects in the event of problems such as the one you know, which are, in the end, like neighbourhood disputes between elected officials. They'll have to put their hands on the dough to solve them. I am sorry, we cannot draw from a particular case a general solution for the whole territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u284	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u285	Forgive me for insisting, this is not a particular case. It is a question of helping to achieve the objectives of the bill by making the inter-community-region hub the pilot in terms of mobility, so that there is no white zone in our territory. Either we accept this approach, and we give ourselves the means to achieve it, or we do not accept it, and we will know white areas, with intercommunalities that will not be able to work, mainly those of the smallest and most rural communes, which will not have this competence. I invite all those who, this afternoon, in the general discussion, have called for this transfer of authority to the communities of communes to go all the way. Let us give them that competence that is available to the agglomeration communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u286	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u287	He insists, he insists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u288	I'll insist, too. The case you are presenting to us, Mr Causse, which you say is likely to happen again at times, we have submitted it to the associations of elected representatives to give you a sure answer. I myself had the Executive Director of the Association des mayores rurales de France – AMRF – on the phone, no later than Thursday morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u289	He's not an elected man!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u290	Cédric Szabo is also an elected official, and I would like to thank you for recognizing him, Mr. Bony. For the time being, the elected representatives do not want this solution. They want us to stick to the status quo, that is to say, that the law provides, perhaps out of concern, to allow time for this new law to be put in place. In short, we do not wish to retain your proposal, because it is not in keeping with the spirit of the law. Moreover, all the associations of elected representatives have told us that they do not want to do so. I therefore maintain the committee's unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u291	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 1196.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u292	The aim is to ensure, through the signing of a convention, a free organisation of mobility in the municipalities which wish to exercise this competence, while at the same time allowing, in a desire for territorial coherence, a wider articulation of transport at the level of intercommunality, which is considered relevant for mobility and transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u294	The objective is not to challenge existing services. However, requiring a convention between the communes concerned and the region would be tantamount to requiring the latter's agreement, whereas the text was intended to give the communes full scope. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u295	Mr Bruno Millienne's amendment No 673 is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u296	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor to support Amendment No. 2360.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u297	This is a declination of my previous amendment. While the latter gave compulsory mobility competence, it makes it possible to facilitate the transfer of competences to intercommunalities. It tends to give communities of municipalities the possibility of transferring the competence to organise mobility to a mixed union, by a simple majority vote of the Community Council, in the event that one of its member communes has already transferred its competence to that same joint union. The idea is to facilitate access to this competence in the same territory if a municipality already exercises it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u299	Mr Causse, I am afraid to disappoint you again. After consulting the associations of elected representatives, I express an opinion against all the amendments you have tabled, including this one, to amend the voting and majority rules applicable to mixed trade unions. This text does not seem to them to be the appropriate legislative vehicle; Moreover, they support the status quo. I'm not going to go against the will of local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u300	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u301	I repeat, I am aware of the difficulties you are encountering in your intercommunality, Mr Causse. I believe that an answer should be found to this particular case, in particular through the mediation of the prefect, but it is not possible to make general arrangements which would not be in accordance with the wishes of the communities concerned, whether they are associations representing the communes, such as the AMF, the Association des mayores de France, AMRF or other associations of small and medium-sized towns, or whether they are the Assembly of the Communities of France. We have to find another solution. I therefore ask that your amendments be withdrawn and that we continue to work on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u302	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u303	Madam Minister, I would like to point out to you, as an example among so many others throughout France, that in my constituency, of five EPCIs, two are concerned by the problem raised by my colleague Causse, with a city centre overrepresented in the community of communes. However, this can be a source of blockage, since the will of a single elected official can take precedence over decisions which affect the entire territory of intercommunality. The situation described by my colleague is not anecdotal. This has also been demonstrated with regard to the implementation of other public policies, such as social housing. There may also be a blockage on the part of the central city. It would be a shame if the objectives of the text you are presenting to us, in particular the desire to remove all the white areas of mobility by trusting the elected representatives, could not be achieved. Unfortunately, the elected representatives who have asked for us, my colleague and I, are often minority in their community of communes, as well as in elected associations – when they are members of them. Thank you, therefore, for ensuring, by appropriate means, whether legislative or regulatory, that a solution is found for these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u304	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor to support Amendment No. 2399.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u305	This amendment seeks to ensure that communities of municipalities can transfer the competence to organise mobility to a mixed trade union, by a two-thirds qualified majority vote, referring to the number of municipalities or to the population represented, in the event that one of the member municipalities has already transferred its competence to that same joint trade union. I would point out that today a transfer of powers can be blocked either by one third of the municipal councils of the municipalities concerned representing half of the total population of the municipalities concerned, or by half of the municipal councils of the municipalities concerned representing one third of the total population, or by a municipality with a population of more than one quarter of the total population of the community of communes. In other words, it is worse than the requirement of unanimity in the European Union! We should know whether or not we want to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u307	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u308	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u309	I hear what you are saying, Mrs Cattelot, but this is far beyond mobility. If, within an intercommunality, a town centre has the capacity to block its functioning, this poses a fundamental problem. As you know, Sébastien Lecornu is currently thinking about the difficulties in implementing the rules on intercommunality. I think it would be better to raise the issue in that context. How can an intercommunality work if the central city does not play the game? This may concern housing skills or, as in this case, mobility, but it is a global problem. Moreover, if we were to impose jurisdiction against the central city's opinion, we could legitimately be worried about how it will participate in its implementation! I repeat, this is a cross-cutting problem that looks at the general functioning of inter-communities. I have already had the opportunity to report it to Sébastien Lecornu; I will do it again so that it is taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u310	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u311	This is a political issue, Minister. Do we want to, yes or no, bet on intercommunities? I hear you have spoken with various associations representing communities; I did it myself. The problem is that some of them are opposed to intercommunities. So they won't help you facilitate the transfer of skills to intercommunities! It is, in fact, a difference of assessment on the merits. In my personal capacity, I would like to see the development of inter-communities, especially if two thirds of the municipalities concerned, representing half of the population, so wish. That only one municipality, which accounts for more than 25% of the population of the intercommunality, blocks all the others because they are smaller, I am sorry, but that bothers me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u312	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2406 and 2603, which can be presented together. The floor is for Mr Lionel Causse to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u313	I'm withdrawing them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u314	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 2724.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u315	The purpose of this amendment is to require the regional councils to deliberate. As it stands, intercommunalities may request to exercise the competence to organise mobility and, if the Regional Council has not deliberated within three months, its answer is, by default, considered unfavourable. It seems to us better to have the regional council deliberate. It is also a question of parallelism of forms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u316	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u317	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u318	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u319	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u320	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u321	The aim of this amendment is to provide more flexibility for mobility governance. Through it, it is proposed that the delegation of jurisdiction to the communities of communes be exercised on an experimental basis and for a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u322	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u323	Unfavorable opinion. In the cases of reversibility provided for in the text, an intercommunality will have the right to ask the region which has become the organizing authority for mobility on its perimeter to return this competence to it for its territory. There is no question that this restitution is purely experimental and temporary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u324	That's what I'm asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u325	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1946 and 2932, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 1946.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u326	The aim of this amendment is to provide for another case of reversibility, by giving the communities of communes which have not seized it the opportunity to recover the mobility competence. It has been seen in previous discussions that some communities of communes sometimes encounter difficulties, in particular as a result of the NOTRE Act, which extended their scope of competence; they do not have the means to seize all of them. The aim of this amendment is therefore to ensure that, in agreement, of course, with the region, it is possible for a community of municipalities to assume mobility competence in a few years' time, but only within its territorial jurisdiction, even if this competence had initially been exercised by the region. This would make it possible to decentralize the competence and restore its proximity, since the community of communes has over the years been able to expand and now be able to take charge of the competence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u327	Mrs Lacroute, you have the floor to support Amendment No 2932.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u328	This is a fallback amendment. As it stands, the text provides for the region to decide on the transfer of powers within three months. The aim of this amendment is to grant it an additional period of six months in total, so that it has the time to examine closely, in conjunction with the community of communities, the possibility of a transfer of powers to the community of communities. The idea is that mobility competence should be assumed as close as possible to the territory, as the EPCI has grown in scope. I point out that the NOTRE law has entrusted many powers to the communities of communes, forcing some of them to expand their scope of competence. As a result, many are struggling to assume the full range of mandatory skills that have been assigned to them. Let us give them the opportunity, in a few years' time, to assume the mobility competence, of course with the agreement of the region which will have replaced them at first.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u329	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u330	In committee, we had removed this third case of reversibility in order to ensure the necessary legal certainty and predictability for the regions. I am against its reintroduction. With regard to Amendment No 2932, paragraph 47 of Article 1 allows the region to delegate all or part of its competence as an organising authority for mobility to another local authority, an EPCI or a joint transport union. It will therefore be possible for a mobility organizing authority to delegate the exercise of part of its competence to a local authority of another level. Unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u332	I would point out that the balances found in the text are the result of long months of discussion with the associations of local and regional authorities, which I have recently reviewed. The municipalities might want to introduce this third case of reversibility, but in this case the regions would like to condition the resumption of the powers previously exercised by them to an agreement on their part. These amendments call into question, in one sense or the other, the balances built up in consultation with the associations. I'm unfavorable. Unfavorable opinion on these two amendments, as on Amendments Nos 26 and 26 to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u333	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u334	These amendments are intended only to apply the principle of subsidiarity. It is not a question of imbalance in the text. The idea is that initially the region is responsible for the development of mobility in areas where there is no transport, thus replacing the EPCI, and that, when the community of communes feels ready to do so, it can take over this competence only within its territorial jurisdiction – and not within the territory of the municipality. The application of this subsidiarity principle would provide flexibility, allowing the region to deal with regional transport, but giving the EPCI the opportunity to deal with local mobility. It is only a matter of providing flexibility to the device and allowing the EPCI time to build up. I'd find it a shame not to make it possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u335	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 26, 820 and 3218. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u336	The aim of this amendment is that regular public transport services, whether on demand or school, operated by the region may be transferred to a community of municipalities or a municipality only with the explicit agreement of the regional council and within a time limit agreed with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u337	The other two identical amendments No 820 by Mrs Marie-France Lorho and No 3218 by Mrs Valérie Rabault are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u338	Unfavorable. They make it optional to transfer services organized by the region to the inter-municipality. In this respect, it is indeed a reversibility which is foreseen: intercommunality calls on the region to restore the competence of AOM, a restitution which logically requires the region to transfer the transport services concerned if they are fully insured in the territory of intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u339	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 63 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u340	Identical amendments Nos 994 by Mr Martial Saddier and 3291 by Mrs Valérie Rabault are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u341	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2252 and 3049. Amendment No 2252 by Mr Christophe Bouillon is being defended. Mrs Monica Michel has the floor to support Amendment No. 3049.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u342	This amendment came from the work on the draft law of the working group of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization. The drafting of this paragraph was improved in committee by the rapporteur, who considered it necessary for communities of municipalities to be given the competence to organise mobility to take full control of the relevant competences. This drafting thus enshrines any risk of fragmentation of mobility competence in the concept of "transfer of skills à la carte", as I had also observed. In the interests of legal certainty, this amendment sets a period of one year for the transfer of powers between the region and the community of communes, or the municipality referred to in Article V. 5210-1-1, which requests it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u343	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u344	In my view, the legislator does not have to restrict the freedom of local authorities to fix together, in the contract they sign, the time limit concerned. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u345	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor to support Amendment No. 1435.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u346	This amendment concerns those communities which, in the long term, will be able to be endowed with specific and expanded competences – whether in application of the law or, in the future, in terms of differentiation –, like the European community of Alsace, established by decree on 27 February 2019. By law, these communities, like Alsace, will in particular be assigned special powers in the context of the transfer of the national road network not granted. The aim here is to give them, on the relevant perimeter, competence as an organising authority for mobility, in particular for cross-border travel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u348	In committee, Mr Thiébaut, you agreed that you were a little too early on this subject. I therefore reiterate my request for withdrawal. In addition, this tool, in European and French law, which is the European Territorial Cooperation Grouping, enables a structured and lasting response to cross-border issues, particularly in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u349	Maybe, but now Alsace is independent, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u350	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u351	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u352	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u353	I defended this amendment again in the sitting for a simple reason: I thought, indeed, I was in advance of the stage, Mr rapporteur, but, as I verified, the decree on the creation of the European community of Alsace was actually published on 27 April 2019. The European Grouping for Territorial Cooperation is another subject, on which I will also defend an amendment. In fact, it had been discussed at the end of the debate in committee, but since then I have not had an answer. A meeting today with local actors has shown me that there is a real problem of implementation in this area. Perhaps I am here in advance of phase, but I anticipate a case that will come very soon, since the law is expected in June. Moreover, this will only prefigure what the right to differentiation will entail, a subject on which we will have to look in the years to come. Therefore, if I may, I will maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u354	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 2441.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u355	We propose, through this amendment, to entrust the AOMs with the task of promoting the modal shift from the individual car to land public transport and active mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u357	Paragraph 36 requires mobility authorities to contribute, inter alia, to the fight against climate change and air pollution. This obligation will necessarily lead them to act in favour of modal postponement by exercising all their AOM functions, and not only when they organise regular services, as provided for in your amendment. I therefore feel satisfied with this report. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u358	Amendment No 675 by Mr Bruno Millienne, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u359	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 3098.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u360	This amendment seeks to clarify that the mobility organising authorities are competent to organise a partial or total merger of their networks with neighbouring mobility organising authorities. In fact, the AOTs – the transport organising authorities – do not make sufficient use of this option, resulting in mobility difficulties for users and disruptions of public transport services in certain territories. While the AOTs are to be replaced by the AOMs, it should be made clear that this possibility is maintained in the competences of the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u361	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u362	If it is a question of completely merging juxtaposed public transport networks, the legal tool already exists: it is the mixed union. If it is simply a matter of better coordination of networks, section 4 of the bill establishes the operational mobility contract, which, at the level of each mobility pool, responds to your concern. Since your amendment is, in my view, satisfied, I suggest that it be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u363	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 2933.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u364	The aim of this amendment is to fill a legal gap. It is clear from our discussions that the local AOMs will not be obliged to organise the famous five services which fall within their competence. The risk is, therefore, that some territories will not be covered by all the services which fall within the competence of mobility, I am thinking in particular of school transport. The closure of classes in rural areas should not be accompanied by the abolition of this service. It is therefore necessary to allow local AOMs to delegate certain services to the region, in order to ensure the coverage of all these mobility services throughout the territory. However, under the rule of law, only local and regional authorities have this possibility of delegation. The amendment fills this legal gap by granting this delegation power to all local AOMs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u365	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u366	The addition you are proposing, Ms. Lacroute, seems to me pointless since a community can already delegate the exercise of jurisdiction to a community of another level. Since your amendment is, in my view, satisfactory, I invite you to withdraw it; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u367	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u368	This amendment leaves me puzzled. The draft law gives the mobility organizing authority the opportunity to exercise jurisdiction over school transportation. If it does not wish to exercise it, then this competence remains, by default, regional: no one needs a delegation to do so. I therefore do not see the point of this amendment; It seems to me, on the contrary, that it would confuse things. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u369	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 2372.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u370	The introduction of the organisation and tools of daily mobility must be accompanied by actions aimed at changing the behaviour of the population. This amendment is intended to encourage the EPCIs to implement them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u371	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u372	Paragraph 32 directs the AOMs to provide an individualized counselling and support service. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. Request for withdrawal; otherwise, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u373	I propose, Mr Wulfranc, to postpone tomorrow's consideration of your amendment No 2442, like that of Mr Prud'homme's amendment No 2654, both relating to the free experience of public transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u374	I was going to offer it to you, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u375	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-06-03-O1255.u376	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and public vote on the motion for a resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; Further discussion of the mobility policy bill. The meeting is adjourned.
