ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system (Nos. 1681, 1767, 1762).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u3	As we begin to consider, at first reading, the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system, I know that we all have a deep sense of responsibility for the expectations of the French, and that we all have a common demand. This requirement is to enable our health care system to deliver on the promises it has always kept tomorrow. That is what this bill is all about, and that is what the French expect of us. While in many respects it remains synonymous with excellence, our health care system, as in other countries, faces structural challenges that require a profound evolution of its organizations, the care it offers, and the ways in which professionals exercise. These heavy trends are known to you: the aging of the population, the increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases, and the persistence of territorial inequalities in health. The preparatory work for the launch of the strategy, following the speech of the President of the Republic on 18 September, confirmed the inadaptation of our organizations. Patients, first of all, face ever greater difficulties in accessing a treating physician or even in some areas, especially in the case of unscheduled care. Health professionals then point to the burdensome administrative tasks, the multiplication, sometimes, of some irrelevant acts, the lack of time dedicated to the sick person or the weakness of developments and a lack of recognition. Finally, our organization and funding methods do not value the quality and relevance of care or promote co-operation between health actors. This diagnosis had been made as soon as I arrived with the health actors, whether they were users, professionals or elected. I don't think anyone is questioning him today. Citizens also confirm this diagnosis. Everyone on these benches, and even before the major national debate confirmed it, shared their expectations for better access to community-based care. We are faced with a system that is too divided between city, hospital, medico-social or between public and private, between health professionals themselves; a system that does not allow the flow of journeys, coordination between professionals, quality and prevention. These gaps need to be looked at in the face and realized that a change in model is necessary. This is the whole meaning of the policy advocated by the Government, through the plan "my health 2022". Our strategy is based on three axes: the quality of the support, to place the user at the centre of the device; a more structured offer, to enhance access to care through a local territorial network; trades, modes of exercise and professional practices rethought, in order to be in line with the needs of today and tomorrow, which are not those of yesterday. However, I have had the opportunity to recall that, but I repeat, our action is not limited to the bill. We intend to activate all the levers and play on all the components of the health system to offer a new deal to users and professionals. And I intend to be very clear: my priority is to do everything possible to respond to the anguish of medical desertification and the need for recognition and valorisation of our health professionals. My response to these concerns does not accommodate any ambiguity. Everything that can be done to free up medical time and facilitate access to the right skill and at the right time must be done. This is also the whole meaning of the ongoing conventional negotiation on medical assistants and the structuring of community care within the territorial professional health communities – CPTS. This is also the spirit of telemedicine and task delegation measures, some of which are included in the bill. Our method, you know it: everything must be done to ensure that initiatives come from the territories, to free up projects, to give confidence to health professionals. This reform will also be complemented by a profound reform of the method of funding, based on the report just submitted to me by Jean-Marc Aubert, the Director of the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – DREES. Initial achievements have already been made by the Social Security Financing Act 2019. I am thinking, in particular, of the introduction of lump sum funding for the hospital treatment of diabetes and chronic renal failure, or the development of quality-enhancing funding in health facilities. Work is continuing and further progress will be proposed in the Social Security Funding Bill for 2020. The challenge now is to move from a system that favours the race for activity to a system that encourages more prevention, that is, that supports cooperation between professionals and that makes quality the primary objective of care. Other levers, regulatory, conventional, financial but also territorial animation and support for actors, will prolong the law. This is particularly the case for a number of emblematic measures, such as the deployment of 400 positions of general practitioners in the territories most in difficulty in terms of medical demography, such as the definition and deployment of the functions of medical assistant who will soon have to make it possible to free up medical time to care for more patients and better accompany them, or the development, in terms of organization, of the territorial occupational health communities, which will lead to better coordination of health professionals in order to improve access to the care of the population in the territories. This bill is voluntarily "closed" around a limited number of provisions to trigger dynamics. It is therefore aimed at the essentials. It was produced in consultation with key stakeholders in a short time frame that is justified by commitments to reform health studies. As a result of this timetable, several legislative changes take the form of legislative authorizations through ordinances. I have heard criticism of the use of Article 38 of the Constitution, but, as I have already had the opportunity to recall during the committee review, these orders must enable a robust and sustainable model to be built with all the actors. It is a choice taken by the Government to initiate the reforms that our system needs today. As I had committed myself to doing so, the Government submitted to the Social Affairs Committee for consideration an amendment incorporating into the bill the missions of community hospitals, which were to be initially defined by ordinances. You were also able to vote for an amendment incorporating into law the measures relating to the Regional Health Agency of Mayotte. I have also committed myself to fully involving parliamentarians, and this commitment will be fulfilled. We will conduct an impact assessment so that members and senators are informed about the consequences of the measures contemplated and retained in the orders. I have also expressed the wish to come to the Social Affairs Committees of the Assembly and the Senate to present each of the orders before the ratification bill is discussed. Today's place for elected officials ahead of health decisions needs to be strengthened. I am convinced that the measures we are taking in the field of health must be exemplary in the preparation of decisions, in the organisation of consultation and in the field. The examination in committee has already led to several advances which will certainly have to be consolidated during the examination in session. I have also heard comments on the lack of preventive measures in this bill. I think my commitment to this matter is no longer to be proved and everyone knows that I have made it the first of my concerns since my first day in the department. I will have the opportunity to present new objectives to the Interdepartmental Health Council on March 25, and new milestones will be laid in the next Social Security Funding Bill – PLFSS. Prevention is important to many Members and I can count on them to accompany each of the measures we are taking. We will also need to go further and complement the initiatives already taken in the context of early childhood, the monitoring of children admitted to social assistance for children, the prevention of mental disability or to prevent the dependency of the elderly. With regard to the bill itself, let me summarize the main provisions of the bill. In accordance with the commitments made, the first year common to health studies – PACES – and the numerus clausus, which has existed since 1971, will be abolished as early as September 2020. The CAPES will give way to a system that will remain selective and demanding, but by making better use of the skills, the professional project, the quality of life of the students, and by reducing the associated social cost. By developing gateways and an entry via Parcoursup, the diversity of profiles will also be preferred. The second cycle of medical studies will also be renovated, with the abolition of national classifying tests. The aim will be to create an orientation procedure that takes into account knowledge as well as clinical and relational skills, and respects the professional projects of future physicians. Frédérique Vidal will come back in more detail on these two provisions. We are extending the assistant physician system, that is, the possibility, for a medical intern at the end of training, to come and support an installed physician. This scheme, currently reserved for tourist areas, will be extended to areas underdenses or in the event of a one-time deficiency found by the Departmental Council of the Medical Association. Another ambition of the bill, the purpose of Title II, is to structure community-based community care in the territories. To this end, in addition to the support already mentioned for the development of the CPTS, the creation of territorial health projects must help to bring into line the initiatives of all actors in the territories, regardless of their status – liberal, in a consolidated or coordinated exercise, hospital, social or medico-social sector, private or public – by obviously involving elected officials and users. These territorial projects formalize the decompartment, which is the cornerstone of the "My Health 2022" project. The status of community hospitals will also be revisited in order to be better adapted to everyday care and open to the city and the medico-social. The core missions have been included in the text, while the funding modalities will be defined by future social security financing laws. The bill and the strategy as a whole are designed to support a community-based hospital offering that is a cornerstone of the provision of primary care in the territories. Community hospitals should be given special support and should have appropriate governance and funding arrangements for their activities. Moreover, it is in line with these issues that the reform of the authorisations of activities will be carried out, in order to accompany the graduation of care in a search for quality, safety and relevance of care. A chapter will be devoted to Act II of the hospital groups in the territory. The medical project must now be the centre of gravity of these groups. Medical human resources management will be shared, and medical governance will be adapted and strengthened accordingly in health facilities. Last pivot of the bill: innovation and digital. The dynamic and progressive health, clinical and medical science of digital usage, dematerialization of practices, and proper use of health data are known. The ambition here is to give France the means to be at the forefront on these issues. The committee discussions on the "Health Data Hub" and the digital health space have been particularly rich and I am confident that this week will be the same. The dematerialization of practices will be achieved through the strengthening of telehealth. Telehealth will thus be created: during telemedicine for paramedics and pharmacists, it will allow certain acts to be carried out remotely, by means of dematerialised means, for example in speech therapy. Finally, and this is a cross-cutting objective across all public policies, various legal simplification, harmonisation and security measures are grouped in Titles IV and V. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see how great the expectation is in this House and in our country. I hope that we will be able to find the widest possible support to ensure better access to care in the territory for all our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the distress that has erupted in recent months, we have all felt a society dominated by fear of the future. Our health care system is one of the most beautiful tools to reassure, appease, and give everyone the pride of belonging to a great and beautiful nation. A country that knows how to treat is a country that can heal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u4	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u5	Promoting student success, diversifying their profiles and adapting health studies to the demand for care in all jurisdictions: these are our ambitions at the heart of the bill before you today. For too long, we have been saddened to see more than seven out of ten students enrolled in PACES fail on the wall of the numerus clausus every year. For too long, everyone in this House has been able to experience this, and we regret the univocal nature of medical studies. Transforming our health care system – and that's what this bill is about – implies a radical evolution in the way we view the training of caregivers, especially physicians. Transforming the structure of a formation or, in this case, of a set of formations is always two questions. Everyone measures the importance of the first, with regard to the training of future doctors: what are our requirements and for what level of skills? Second question: what openness, what benevolence, in order to give students the means to succeed, to flourish and to find in their training and internships the resources necessary for their development as future professionals, but also as young adults? Articles 1 and 2 reflect our ambition to undertake medical studies, in the broadest sense of the term, including odontology, pharmacy and maieutics, which are demanding, but also more open and welcoming. This is not contradictory, on the contrary, because our ambition is not only to train more doctors tomorrow, but also to prepare them for various modes of exercise, in different territories, including in subdenses or rural areas. We want to prepare them for medical practices that will be very different from what they are today, that is, to allow them to learn for themselves, throughout their lives, so that they can adapt and evolve. One point I want to stress is that today, some health students are in difficulty. They tell us, and the investigations show it. We have put in place measures to address this. For them too, we need to move from care to prevention, and ensure that health students are comfortable in their studies. We owe it to them, and we owe it to their future patients, that they will only treat well if they themselves are well. Not all of these issues can be dealt with exclusively by law. A broad dialogue, in which we have fully engaged with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, is continuing around the new path of health studies. This consultation will be reflected in the regulations that will make it possible to apply the law. Our collective ambition is therefore to draw the framework that will allow academic actors, students and all the players in the health system who are involved in training, to develop more open and diversified curricula. I am thinking, for example, of the training of all health students in prevention, through the development of the health service. The first clause of the bill proposes to put an end to the waste of the PACES and the numerus clausus. Today, this device succeeds in making it possible to lead to the failure of excellent high school students, pretending to enrol students in health studies, to exclude them massively after one, often two years of intensive work. We want to transform it into a system that not only enrolls high school students, but will make them succeed, while allowing those who wish to do so to apply for health education. If only some will be selected, all will now be able to pursue a course, obtain a diploma and succeed in higher education. Students, enrolled in a variety of courses, including at universities without medical schools in medium-sized cities, will be able to apply for medical courses. They will be selected on the excellence of their academic career and on complementary tests that will also evaluate skills that our fellow citizens consider important, such as relational skills, empathy or communication. Of course, not everything is in the bill, and the success of this transformation will depend in large part on the mobilization of all actors, and first of all universities. Our collective ambition in the coming days must be to draw the framework within which they will be able to implement this unprecedented transformation of medical studies. What is in the bill, on the other hand, is the concrete translation of the desire to transform the training of future doctors in depth. The deletion of the numerus clausus has been mentioned half-worded for years. There will be no half measure this week: we propose to delete the numerus clausus. Much discussion took place, during the consultation but also in committee, on what is described in the text as the "previous training course" for health studies. This formulation was chosen to suggest the diversity that we want to introduce in the recruitment of professionals. The demand for care will change sharply in the coming years. Some patients will need professionals with new technical skills related to big data or artificial intelligence. Many professionals will need to coordinate in a global bio-psycho-social approach around the patient with multiple difficulties, wanting to live in his or her environment and be fully involved in his or her health. Biotechnology will continue to develop. Studies in pharmacy, medicine, odontology, maieutics, and more generally health studies must incorporate these future demands, and the diversity of recruitment channels is involved. Further clarification of these paths, as some would like, or more precisely identifying one path among others would put us at risk of eventually rebuilding a PACES, in other words, a unique access route that would miss out on the talent of many students from different backgrounds. I would particularly like to welcome the rapporteurs of both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Cultural Affairs, through which, at the end of your work in committee, the Government will be able to open a window of experimentation which will open up the organisation of medical and paramedical training. These experiments will accelerate the movement of inclusion of all health education in the university, which we co-implemented with Agnès Buzyn from last year. They will allow students to learn to work together, to take the time of their orientation, but also to gain access to training through research. Questions were raised about the place of training leading to the profession of masseur-kinesitherapist. We will return to this during the debates, but here I want to reassure you: the regulatory texts that define it will be adapted to the mode of admission, which will be opened, as it is today, to a variety of academic fields. The second section of the bill takes us further into medical studies, always with the ambition of reconciling demand, benevolence and openness. Today, medical studies are similar to an obstacle jumping competition suitable only for a type of intelligence. The student, selected from multiple-choice PACES questionnaires, finds them throughout his or her course, and he or she has access to a particular specialty based on his or her ability to memorize a large amount of information and check the right boxes. The capacity for synthesis, decision-making in situations of uncertainty or, more simply, for conducting a clinical interview or examination is poorly assessed, and ultimately has little in the direction, nor does it have to be involved in research work. Is that what we want for our future doctors? They, in any case, tell us clearly the opposite. They no longer want this model in which the intensive bulwark makes them lose the very meaning of what had led them to embark on the path of medical studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u6	We need human!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u7	We therefore propose to put an end to this situation, to diversify the criteria for assessing students, to build multiple courses, to allow them to reflect and breathe. I am convinced that this way better trained, these students will treat us better. In conclusion, I would like to raise the main question in the minds of all the elected representatives you are, who have constantly asked you in the riding: what will all this change to the problems of areas where health professionals are lacking? This is a problem that we need to address in terms of training. It takes nine to fifteen years to train a doctor. The current difficulties are the result of decisions taken in the 1990s and 2000s. It will take time to correct this liability. Everyone can understand that, we cannot increase the number of medical graduates tomorrow. We can, on the other hand, improve access to care tomorrow or the day after tomorrow by means of a set of measures that Agnès Buzyn has presented to you. New trainings, such as the creation of advanced practice nurse diplomas, initiated last September, will also allow different organizations, freeing up medical time by providing different and better care for chronic diseases, for example. Making training a long-term lever to change the way we respond to the social and territorial demand of caregivers is the whole purpose of Chapter 1 of the bill. We are confident that a decision-making process that listens to the ground will take much better account of the realities. It is important that all stakeholders participate. That is the meaning of the association of the Regional Committee on Health and Autonomy which your Committee on Social Affairs wished to include in the law, on the initiative of the rapporteur Stephanie Rist. If the examination in committee has already allowed us to go through important steps, I have no doubt that we will have a rich and lively debate on what we collectively expect from medical studies in their generality. Many other proposals will allow us to discuss the content of the studies, the organisation of internships and the place of patients. We will propose that you modify the very definition of medical studies in the education code in order to adapt it to what our fellow citizens expect today from the training of a doctor. Other proposals relate to training content. They are not within the scope of the law but may inspire the drafting of regulations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the intention of the Government is clear. The transformation of the organization of our health system is a structural movement of long-term evolution for the benefit of our citizens. The reform of medical studies is the construction in our universities, with teachers, students, patients and all professionals who contribute to the formation, especially in internship, of the foundation of this transformation. We owe it to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u8	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u9	Today we are looking at the bill on the organization and transformation of the health care system – the bill "my health 2022", as I used to name it, as it represents an important part of the plan put forward by the President of the Republic on September 18. "My Health 2022", is an ambitious plan that has been developed over several months of work and consultation with all stakeholders, following the launch by you, the Minister, and the Prime Minister of the strategy for transforming the health system more than a year ago. What findings do we share with the French, who are leading us today to debate this bill? Our health care system is out of sight, having not undergone any structural reform since 1958. At that time, there were fewer of us and we lived less; We had thought the system through his head, with the university hospital centers – CHU. Today, we want to put this system back on its feet, starting from the ground to meet the needs of the French. They have been saying this for a long time, and they have told us at every meeting of the big debate: access to care has become a major source of inequality in recent years and a concern for everyday life. Two phenomena are responsible for this. The first is the numerus clausus, whose level was lowered because some thought, at one time, that with fewer doctors, there would be fewer prescriptions and perhaps even fewer patients. It was a mistake. The second is that the French are more numerous and live longer by developing, as age progresses, chronic diseases that require more time of care. It is this growing gap between the health needs of French people and the provision of care that leads to the difficulties we are experiencing today throughout France. Our ambition is clear: to improve access to the care of the French, to guarantee them the quality and safety of the care. Equal access to care is the heart of our republican promise. We propose short-, medium- and long-term solutions with this bill. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The long term is training. We will finally remove the numerus clausus, train more doctors, with more diverse profiles. Above all, we are going to put an end to this human waste by which, every year, brilliant bachelors left university after two years of studies without any diploma in their pocket. As we know, these more doctors will only arrive in ten years. But that's no reason to keep the numerus clausus. Moreover, if it had been removed before, we would not be in the difficult situation we are experiencing today. This bill will allow, not only to train more doctors, but also to ensure the perfect maintenance of their knowledge and skills through periodic certification – a revolution. Until then, the wait is high. We intend to provide solutions, respond to them in a coherent and innovative way. The solution is not the end of doctors' freedom of installation. Of course, today too few are settling in liberal medicine, and some believe that adding constraints to the installation would improve things. In fact, it would be the opposite: more constraints are even fewer liberal facilities, fewer doctors on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u10	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u11	When considering the amendments, I will systematically reject all measures aimed at forcing doctors, not for corporatist reasons, as some would say, but for the sake of efficiency. Indeed, our will is both to make liberal medicine more attractive to professionals and to make care more accessible to patients. That is what this reform is all about. The isolated exercise of medicine is over; the time is at network work, at coordinated care. It's over when doctors in two 300-metre-long offices didn't coordinate during the holidays, leaving a population without a doctor between Christmas and the 1st of the year. This is no longer possible, and the doctors themselves are changing their practices. Doctors must be discharged from unnecessary administrative tasks. Future medical assistants will contribute. Relations between health professionals need to be more organized, and skills more shared through a coordinated exercise between doctors, pharmacists, nurses, dentists, kines and midwives. It is in this sense that I have presented to the Committee on Social Affairs, which has adopted several amendments aimed at enabling pharmacists, under a protocol from the High Health Authority, to deliver medicines for everyday diseases, such as angina or cystitis, and to renew chronic treatments, for the others, to allow nurses to adjust the dosages of certain treatments, such as anticoagulants, according to the results of blood tests; all this is done in a systematic way with the attending physician, as part of a coordinated exercise. These are concrete, immediate responses to the needs of the French to facilitate their access to care – community-based primary care, organized through the local health professional communities and that really connect with the hospital. It's the entire object of the local hospital. We want to label 500, perhaps more. In these institutions, the mixed exercise will be facilitated for professionals between the city and the hospital. And because proximity rhymes with quality and safety of care, these hospitals will offer, in support of city medicine, medical services with advanced consultations of specialists. They will provide access to a biology laboratory, radiology equipment, emergency services, perinatal centres, follow-up care services and mobile palliative care teams, in other words, all the care that is needed at home. Proximity also rhymes with modernity. That is the issue of this bill, which makes our health care system take a digital turn, and thus make it enter the 21st century. Digital technology offers professionals the opportunity to save time and, for patients, to take ownership of their health. Being a health actor will enable the digital health space, designed as a platform of applications where you can find your shared medical record, your pharmaceutical record, your e-vaccination book and all the applications you may already have on your phone and from which you can share the data with your doctor. This will allow for better care, prevention and follow-up. After continuing the deployment of telemedicine in the law in 2017, we go further in telehealth by extending it to other health care professionals to allow, for example, a speech speech session or teleconsultation nurse surveillance tomorrow. We are also committed to e-prescription for more safety in prescriptions and more practicality on a daily basis, such as troubleshooting drugs when you are away from home. Everything I have just mentioned will be put in place in the coming months thanks to this text which we are considering today, after more than forty hours of hearings and almost twenty-four hours of debates in the Committee on Social Affairs, where 169 amendments from all sides have been adopted. The examination in committee, in a very serene and calm climate, allowed the text to be enriched on several points. For my part, I will return to a public sitting on certain measures voted in committee against my opinion, such as the requirement of internships in subdenses, which would block students in their journey,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u12	How so?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u13	...the right to the treating physician or the social missions of the territorial occupational health communities, which must be defined in the first place by social dialogue, through the conventional negotiations between health professionals and health insurance. I would like to thank the Minister of Health for her always attentive listening and for making two orders in the bill by way of government amendments. We will thus be able to discuss here more in detail, and certainly with passion, the space missions of the future local hospitals...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u14	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u15	... and the creation of the regional health agency of Mayotte. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not for the French to adapt to the system, it is for the system to adapt to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u16	Well said! But that's not reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] End of the numerus clausus, more trained doctors, professionals organized in multidisciplinary teams in the field for more coordinated care and skills sharing, modernized community hospitals and the turn of digital health: this law "My Health 2022" is a chance to finally transform our health system, a chance to give every Frenchman, regardless of age, standard of living and postal code, an equal and better access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u18	Amen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u19	I call Mrs Stéphanie Rist, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u20	The draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system is first of all that of transformation. In particular, it is a matter of transforming in depth a system of training for the health professions which has become in many respects archaic, compartmentalized, Jacobin, and above all incapable of meeting the needs of our fellow citizens. They are very committed to the quality of care, but their needs are constantly changing in this area. It is up to us to respond in a pragmatic, effective and ambitious way. It is a transformation in depth, more precisely a mutation, as the objectives we have set ourselves are major and will make lasting changes in the training of doctors. Nothing so important has been done since the Debré ordinances of 1958. There'll be a before and a after. It is a long-term transformation, because we are working today for several decades by reshaping the formations of excellence that are long for the most part. Our decisions today will depend on the quality of responses to the health needs of our children and grandchildren. Let us be aware of our responsibility! Transform, yes, but what is it about more precisely? These are, first of all, those who will be working in these health professions and who will be treating us tomorrow. It is with them that the future is played. Every year, thousands of health students find themselves crushed by an absurd system, by a dehumanized contest, a guillotine contest that does not recognize talent or skills, valuing the one who knows best but not necessarily understands. We must end the bulge, the endless hours to learn by heart hundreds of pages of polycopies, forgotten soon the past contest. Putting intelligence back at the heart of training is our ambition. Of the 60000 candidates who took the competition in 2018, only 22 % took part in the second year of training; The others were forced to repeat or change the course without validating a university year. What a waste, knowing the investment required this first year! Can we remain passive in front of these young people who, for whole nights, Stabilo and hand files, are strangling at a rigorous pace of work and integrating colossal knowledge, to find themselves abandoned to the top of the standings? Removing repetitions and allowing the contest to be re-opened while pursuing a university course, is to eliminate these mess situations. However, we do not propose to train doctors at the discount. "The real men of progress are those who have as their starting point a deep respect for the past," wrote Ernest Renan, and I have a deep respect for the great precursors of French medicine. This bill wants to add well-made heads to well-filled heads. To this end, it promotes the diversification of profiles. Today, almost 90% of first-year students have an S degree, "Good" or "Very Good", and have an excellent level of mathematics. Where are the students from the other fields? Where are the students who love history, economy or law? They have no access to health care. The diversification of students is essential. Tomorrow, a student who is passionate about philosophy or history from the lower Middle Ages will be able, if he wishes – and if he has the capacity, of course – to integrate a health sector. The reform of postgraduate medical education also entails this requirement. We must, of course, take into account the knowledge and skills, but also the personal journey of the students, enriched by their experiences, and listen to their professional project when they choose a specialty. A ranking should not so easily break career ambitions. But the law of the competition is ruthless for students: how many vocations of potential major cardiologists, ophthalmologists or neurosurgeons have been lost because of a failed test? It is then a matter, and it is a transformation no less profound, of valuing the complementarity, the sharing, the transversality between the different health professionals. This starts from the start of training. I have proposed to the Committee on Social Affairs, which adopted it, an amendment to this effect, which promotes the transversality and development of a common core between medical and paramedical fields. Those who form together understand each other better and learn to work together. This is how training lays the foundation for better interprofessional collaboration, the cornerstone of the transformation of our health care system. The common core of the training of the health professions will allow students not to be confined to a field but, on the contrary, to accompany them throughout their studies; It will promote bridges between formations, thus a gradual orientation, as is the case in several foreign countries. "You must be the change you want to see in the world," Gandi said. Transforming for decades also means preparing those who are destined for the health professions for tomorrow's jobs, because they will certainly be quite like what we know today: 65% of current school children will be in occupations that have not yet been invented. In the field of health, we may come across paramedics who will drive drones – "Andronians" – surgeons using robot assistants – "Botiurgiens" – or 3D organ printers... We need to prepare future professionals for tomorrow's jobs, prepare them to adapt to new techniques and needs. We cannot guess how we and our children and grandchildren will be cared for in 2050, but we can diversify the profiles of health professionals and prepare them to develop adaptive capacities in the face of these transformations. In addition to clinical skills, there is also a need to integrate relational skills into training. It is about valuing empathy, for example, to talk more calmly about dialogue with patients and better collect their words, their testimonies. While the patient is at the heart of our reform of the health system, his needs and experiences are a wealth that can be exploited from the outset of training. Many countries, such as the United Kingdom and Canada, have already implemented teaching practices in this direction, valuing the experiential knowledge of patients. I will address this issue through an amendment, because it is essential, in my view, that the patient should find his place in the classrooms, not just in the waiting rooms. Also in this process of transformation, the bill provides for the reform of the statutes of hospital practitioners, as they are now too numerous and not attractive. This will help to combat medical desertification, a real challenge for our territories. Transforming, and perhaps this is the most emblematic part of this bill, is also removing the too famous numerus clausus. The central and state determination of the number of students entering the second year will soon be a sad memory! It is now about meeting the needs of the French, in terms of both the number of health professionals and the specialties and the location. But be careful, we will never substitute the logic of the number for quality. The increase in the number of trained students cannot be tantamount to a reduction in the quality requirement that universities and health professional training organizations have long established and that is recognized throughout the world. The number of doctors will no longer reflect a figure recorded each year in a decree, but it will result from a dialogue between universities and regional health agencies that will finally take into account the needs of the territories. In order to support these agencies in their efforts to match the nature of health needs with university training, we have adopted an amendment in committee to provide for consultation of the Regional Conference on Health and Autonomy – CRSA. The opinions of the CRSA are already helping to define regional health policy. This body brings together health professionals, representatives of local and regional authorities and representatives of users, on the expertise and knowledge that the development of the opinion of the RSA can really draw on. We cannot continue to see a widening of the medical population deficit without doing nothing. The needs identified by agencies and actors in the field, which result in the opening of boarding posts, must be met. Too many positions, today, are not filled, medical students do not come to settle in territories where medical demography is critical but where it is good to live. Reducing this level of mismatches must be one of our objectives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, it is with strength that this bill addresses the difficult situations in our territories, and it is with strength that I defend it before you. Hippocrates said it better than I could say: "The strength that is in each of us is our best doctor."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u21	Mr Gaël Le Bohec, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u22	The Committee on Cultural Affairs has taken up articles 1 and 2 of the draft law which directly concern its sphere of competence, in particular for higher education. The observation that I draw from the functioning of the health studies after the hearings we conducted is without appeal. "Gâchis", "butchery", "massacre", "pedagogical disaster", "psycho-social difficulties" are the terms that have been used to qualify the contest that punishes the PACES, which also ensures access to the fields of odontology, pharmacy and maieutics. This competition allows just over 20% of registered students to pursue studies in one of these fields, and in two thirds of the cases, it is necessary to repeat them in order to succeed. If you fail this contest, a reorientation, often brutal, is necessary. In fact, many bachelors who have successfully completed their high school career with honours are evicted every year, not only from these professions, but from a university system that struggles to keep them in its midst, as their disgust and loss of confidence in them are great. The situation of future doctors is no more enviable. After this initial competition, they pass a second, also capital, after six years of study. The classification in this second competition determines their professional life and determines the place and specialty in which the student will perform his or her boarding school. These two cutlets do not contribute to the well-being of medical students and lead to the widespread dehumanization of pedagogy. This system is, moreover, particularly unequal, because it creates psychological barriers preventing talented students, from disadvantaged or disabled backgrounds, from dreaming of a doctor. Not all families have the financial capacity to support their children during two years of education in CAPES, which, too often, are two years lost. The aim is to move from one entry and exit system to another, much more open, which welcomes students from other horizons and also allows them, in case of failure, to move towards other paths without losing the full benefit of their years of study in medicine. The reform is particularly ambitious, particularly because of its systemic nature. Indeed, it is not only health studies that are concerned, but all the licences offered by universities. Some faculties will be able to implement this reform easily; Others will face more difficulties, especially when the health component is, comparatively, important. That is why the text proposed by the Government is flexible, on the understanding that the implementation of the reform will need to adapt to each university by making it "up-to-date". The ambitions are, however, the same everywhere: to diversify access routes to health studies in order to recruit profiles that will correspond to what is expected of these professionals tomorrow, and to avoid the current human waste. An amendment was adopted in committee to lay down by regulation the objectives for the diversification of access routes and is contained in the text under discussion. At the same time, I will propose to this House an amendment to clarify the concept of diversification. This should concern both access arrangements, ensuring a diversity of student profiles, and organizational arrangements, and promoting the diversity of training offered. As the capacity of university hospital centres is limited, we will also need to find new internship sites for our interns. In this connection, I welcome the fact that an amendment adopted in committee provides for the validation of the second cycle to be carried out at least "a traineeship located in an area characterised by insufficient care or difficulties in accessing care". The success of the reform depends on several factors. It must first be understood by the main stakeholders. We are going to move from a very simple system to a plural system, and it will be necessary for guidance managers in high schools, for example, to understand its subtleties. In addition, reform must be fully accepted by the academic community. However, some licenses will fear losing their best elements to health studies, when others will find it difficult to accommodate more students. In order for all licences to play the game, it is desirable to make the legislative framework a little more binding, in particular with regard to the setting of targets for the diversification of access routes. Finally, the success of the reform requires an educational renewal, especially in the first year. The creation of "health" minors will have to be ensured as much as possible throughout the country, ensuring that they are associated with a wide range of majors. I am confident on this point. I am even more confident in the success of the reform proposed by Article 2, which concerns medical studies alone. It was also evident to us that such a system should give greater attention to students with disabilities. I am pleased that the amendment allowing for their specificities to be taken into account has been adopted in committee and is included in the text we are considering today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The text proposed by the Government and improved by the Assembly is a major step forward and will have a significant impact on the health system as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u23	I have received a motion from Christian Jacob and members of the Republicans Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u24	The draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system on the agenda is expected by users, health professionals, medical students or those involved in these studies. We agree on the diagnosis: the health system is out of breath, and even on the verge of collapse. While health spending amounts to almost EUR 200 billion, or 11.7% of GDP, in the last ten years hospital operating deficits have tripled and their investments have decreased, so that most are in a tense financial situation, or even "in the red". One in ten French people lives in a medical desert, as recalled by the yellow vest crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u25	Whose fault is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u26	In my region of the Centre-Val de Loire, 20% of the population is in this case. Partitioning is a hindrance to the path of patients who demand a supply of proximity and quality. In 2018, more than seven in ten French people would have given up at least once. Unlike our European neighbours, we are investing insufficiently in prevention. While many factors, including improved treatment, have contributed to longer life expectancy, it tends to slow down, with projections even indicating that life expectancy could reach a ceiling. Medical studies must be tailored to the needs while pursuing realistic objectives. Medicine must also be able to capitalize on the progress of digital technology. This is why structural transformation is needed. More than a year ago, the Prime Minister, on a visit to Eaubonne, strongly indicated that he wanted to put an end to "health problems". On 18 September 2018, it was the turn of the President of the Republic to present the plan "Ma santé 2022" whose proposals, of technocratic inspiration, did not meet the expectations of the French with regard to recurring emergencies to be solved. It is only today that the Government is introducing this twenty-three-section bill, which has been prepared in haste and on which it has initiated the accelerated procedure. This text, far below the initial announcements, is, in fact, only one of the bricks in the health plan. Is there a need for us to deliberate on this? The sudden haste of the Government forces our assembly to legislate under conditions that can only undermine the quality of the law. In many respects, the text contravenes the principle of clarity defined by the Constitutional Council and the principle of the intelligibility of the law, an objective of constitutional value. In this regard, I refer to President Jean-Louis Debré, who, on 25 March 2005, in the spring of constitutional law organized by the Centre de recherche en droit constitutionnel de l'Université Paris I, stressed that parliamentarians had a responsibility for the quality of the law. Well, let's take our responsibilities in the face of an ultra blurred text, which deprives us of information that will allow us to exercise our supervisory competence! In its 1991 public report, the Council of State denounced "a soft right, a blurred right, a right to a gaseous state". The Minister, however, remains unclear because several of its provisions are referred to the implementing order. This is evident, in particular, for medical studies, which are referred to in Article 1 and Article 2. We agree on the objectives of a reform of access to medical studies, a diversification of the modalities of entry and the abolition of the numerus clausus, which has become inadequate. We also agree with the principle of a reform of the second and third cycles, in particular the abolition of the national classing tests so criticized by the student associations and the deans of medicine, especially since the fiasco of June 2017, when two classing events had been cancelled for breach of equality. However, many uncertainties were not removed during the hearings and the committee discussion. The Government, for example, had to table an amendment extremis setting out the tasks of community hospitals, which must be the link between city medicine and the hospital community, as they remained vague. Their perimeter is not yet well defined. On the grounds that it is now necessary to move quickly, other provisions concern orders, which deprives us of a full and in-depth debate. It also deprives us of genuine consultation when the key to a well-conducted medical reform is to lead it with those who make the health system. This is the case with article 3 to empower the Government to take measures to re-certify the competence of doctors by means of prescriptions. Article 6 is an authorization for measures creating a unique status as a hospital practitioner and abolishing the competition. Article 8 is, for its part, an authorization to make orders to redefine the missions and governance arrangements of community hospitals. Further ordinances in section 9, in order to modernize the system of authorizations for care activities and heavy equipment. Finally, four authorizations in Article 19. In addition, the last two articles are ratifications of ordinances. Adding the repeal and grooming of section 15 to this count, it is clear that we are far from what the initial solemn proclamations would suggest. Madam Minister of Health, you said at the presentation of your wishes to the press: "We had identified the causes of this malaise in society and prepared the remedies to get out of it." It must be believed that the malaise was too large and too deep, and the remedy too slow, at least too late. Why did you wait two years after the presidential election? It will still take at least 18 months for the orders to be implemented. Finally, this project is, in many respects, incomplete. What is, indeed, a health care system? The definition given by the World Health Organization is comprehensive: "The health system is all organizations, institutions, resources and individuals whose main objective is to improve health. This requires Governments to develop strong and effective health systems capable of preventing disease and providing treatment to all women, men and children, regardless of where they live. » That is why we regret the lack of a vision and strategy for prevention, as medicine becomes increasingly predictive and preventive, as well as the omission of an objective of upgrading and attractiveness of the profession of doctors who contribute to health. There is no provision for medical research either, nor for pharmaceutical research, the situation of which is deteriorating, as shown by the decline in its competitiveness for several years. In ten years, France has moved from the first to the fourth place in the ranking of the countries producing medicines in Europe. In addition, we are looking in vain for proposals on the status of university hospitals. We are emerging from a health law, led by your predecessor, which had not satisfied anyone. Does the bill meet the promise of a global transformation of our health care system? From the outset, you intend to respond to the challenge of training the health professions. The aim is, quite rightly, to ensure quality training with a view to the territorial reorganization of the provision of care and the establishment of multi-professional patient paths. This training must prepare tomorrow's medicine. Thus, the draft introduces a new wording of article L. 631-1 of the Education Code to allow access to medical studies from diversified channels. The CAPES would be replaced by a first year of health licensing without duplication. As noted by the conference of deans of medical schools, it is necessary to "facilitate the entry into university of young high school students motivated and capable of being adapted to the practice of a carer's profession", this in a territorial logic that is hardly allowed by Coursup. The faculties of medicine make the same observation: their students have the same standard profile, all hold a scientific baccalaureate mention "Good" or "Very good". It is therefore necessary to diversify the culture of these high school students, who should not be exclusively scientific and technical.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u27	That is one of the objectives of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u28	From a sociological point of view, these students come from higher social categories. There are fewer and fewer scholarship students on the benches of the faculties; It is therefore from high school that information should be provided to pupils in order to prepare them for entry into health studies, as part of local and territorial initiatives. A long time ago, students from the philosophical and literary fields were able to attend and succeed in these courses. It has become almost impossible, and it is regrettable. The flagship measure of your project is the announced deletion of the numerus clausus, which does not actually meet its original objectives. This abolition has the merit of putting an end to the system of squandering, which was indeed critical. Indeed, the number of doctors trained at each university will be determined by universities and regional health agencies, depending on their capacity and the needs of the territory. Last year, the numberrus clausus was set at 8205 for medical students. With those applied in pharmacy, dental surgery and maieutics, there were a total of just over 13,000 health students. You hear it increase by 20% to reach about 10,000 students. Do you think that universities, which are already overloaded or even saturated, are able to adapt to this increase in the number of students in such short periods of time? In any case, it would be illusory to consider this measure, the effects of which will be perceptible only in a dozen years, if not more, as a solution to the problem of medical deserts. It's just communication. Medical students build a professional project during their studies. As you know, they refuse to end their freedom of installation. At The Republicans, respect for the freedom of installation is in our DNA. Today we are paying for past political mistakes, committed over the years by various majorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u29	You were!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u30	For technocratic and bureaucratic reasons, the numerus clausus even went down to 3,500 posts per year. We are paying the price today. With regard to the reform of the second cycle, the national classing tests, which have been criticized by student associations and deans, especially since the 2017 fiasco that I recalled, should be replaced by three major stages: a national knowledge control test in the fifth year, and then, at the end of the sixth year, an evaluation of clinical and relational skills, through health simulation. The measure will cover 8400 students who will be enrolled in the second cycle in September 2019 and who will take the new exams in 2022. It is intended not to reduce the second cycle to the preparation of the end-of-studies competition. The classifying events will be replaced, as you recalled, by a "matching" based on a mixture of criteria. This is important because the assignment of interns depends on this multifactorial process. What will be the evaluation methods used in this new framework? It is also doubtful whether the time limits for replacing national classification tests with new ones are being met. It is therefore reasonable, as you said in committee, that this pending reform, which was announced last July, should be postponed for a year. We proposed such a postponement by way of an amendment. That's so much better. As for the third cycle, it will also have to evolve, but you do not mention it in this project. No one's talking about it, by the way. Above all, it is necessary to end the prejudice that the ultimate nec plus would be to train doctors only in university hospitals. The goal of establishing a territorial health network is a goal that also applies to medical studies and regional hospital centres. By sharing its expertise, the CHU contributes to a more equitable distribution of the provision of care throughout the territory. It is therefore logical that each regional capital should be the seat of a CHU. However, some regions have several CHUs, while others do not. This is the case of Orléans, the capital of the Centre-Val de Loire region, which I live in and which is composed of six departments. There is only one CHU, at the end of this region, in Tours. The hospital in Orléans-La-Source is the only non-university French regional hospital, which is a barrier to medical attractiveness and risks further aggravating the already significant deterioration of medical demography in the Loiret. In committee, you have not heard me on this point, and I regret it. The CESP – public service contract – installation aid, referred to in Article 4, has been a success and deserves to progress, as it is not so old as that. However, this mechanism remains incomplete, due to a lack of human accompaniment. It would be useful to benefit those who are destined for general medicine, whose attractiveness must be, more than ever, a priority objective. To facilitate the installation of young doctors, it is not only to develop installation aids by working on the accompaniment of professional projects, it is also to promote personalized accompaniment, using, for example, the support platforms for health professionals and, above all, to set up one-stop shops. Medical students confirm the lack of information available in the faculties. The provisions relating to territorial health projects and changes in the governance of the territorial health professional communities, the famous CPTS, are worrying the medical world. The territorialization of health is certainly desirable, and we wish it. However, the bill does not define what this new regional geographic level of health management is. This is fundamental, because the health territory aims to provide the reference population with what it really needs. The first local health contracts were in this direction by defining the medical geography of the territories concerned in a relevant way. CPTS is currently a focal point in the organization of community-based care in the territories. They are in fact being built in a flexible and progressive way by the professionals themselves. However, according to the bill, CPTS would be included in a territorial care organization, while their governance would be changed. The territorial health projects are designed to bring together health projects developed by professional communities and those of health-care institutions, both public and private, as well as those developed by social and medical-social institutions. They form an administrative floor which, within the regional project, is added to the health project specific to the various actors. While it is a good tone to denounce, in the territorial administration, the famous territorial mille-feuille, you are here only thickening it. In addition, the health project would be subject to the approval of the Director General of the RSA – what a pity to have passed on this competence to the RSA and not to have left it to a health prefect placed with the prefect! Such an organization would have allowed for more discussion; It would have been much better. This is unacceptable, because it is really a matter of putting the health organization at a standstill. The performance of the British National Health Service, referred to as bureaucratic Leviathan, is contested, in particular because of the longer waiting times for treatment and the deterioration of the quality of care. The OECD health overview shows that this has implications for overall health. Is this mammoth becoming your model? I do not hope so, Madam Minister. Instead of this project of superadministration, let us therefore allow local initiatives and professionals to express themselves free to organize themselves, instead of placing them under the control of the ARS!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u31	That's right, it's very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u32	The success of the CPTS is all that comes from the base in the region. Finally, it is essential to strengthen the position of local elected representatives in the context of these territorial health projects, in the same way that they are already involved in local health contracts. It is a strange method of using an order to conduct supervised consultation and forced contracting. Professor René Frydman, who is well known for his outstanding skills, has just declared that your reform, Minister, may miss her goal. Why does he think so? It is a matter of articulating the health system throughout the patient's journey in his or her health territory, with each territory having a medical and administrative co-direction. RHAs should have only an evaluation role.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u33	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u34	Flexibility would also be required for community hospitals. Will they be placed under the supervision of the hospital groups of territory – GHT? It would certainly be more appropriate to enable them to meet the needs of the territories and to introduce a labelling and approval procedure. How will they be financed? The HRGs created by the Touraine Act will be strengthened under the authority of regional health agencies. Hospital power would thus be concentrated in a new sub-regional state governance. It is rather paradoxical, even though the central objective of the bill was to unblock the provision of care at all levels, to make this hospitalo-centered tool the main lever of restructuring. The bill also proposes to make the formula of the GHT Medical Commission mandatory. The composition of this medical commission, the method of appointing its members and the allocation of seats should be ensured in order to avoid imbalances and the devitalisation of the establishments of the GHT member institutions for the benefit of the supporting hospital. Professor Frydman also recalled that the focus of THGs is torpedoing – the word is strong – the previous idea of a health territory. What we need is territorial coordination. However, hospitals in the GHT remain a state in the state. On the other hand, the development of digital health is a very good thing. The bill intends to provide every user with a digital health space, which will integrate – finally! – the shared medical record that has been long overdue for ten years. However, the impact study indicates that there are major barriers to accelerating the digital health shift. The user is the forgotten of this turn. The offer to health care professionals is fragmented and makes usages complex in everyday practice. This national digital health strategy is therefore not readable by stakeholders and remains incomplete. Finally, governance is not sufficiently structured to effectively implement the National Digital Health Strategy. The purpose of teleconsultation is to enable a medical professional to provide a remote consultation to a patient. You know my commitment to this practice. Another health professional may be present with the patient and, if necessary, assist the medical professional during the teleconsultation. In the Loiret, I myself encouraged several municipalities to take the step; Several sites have already been installed, and it works well. Last week, we even got the 2019 digital transformation trophy. It's a very nice result, of which I'm proud!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u35	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u36	But what's the status of nurses receiving patients in their office? Their powers should be extended. That is why I proposed that they be allowed to carry out telecare and that they be paid for the act. I was referred to the treaty negotiations, which is unfortunate. This should have been included in the law. Let me remind you that in June 2016, in order to remedy the decline in the supply of liberal medicine, the inequality of access to care and expensive hospitalocentrism, I, along with several colleagues, had tabled a bill for the future of our care system, the result of an important work of consultation with all the players in our health system. This bill gave priority to liberal medicine. Indeed, I cannot forget to have bathed in a system of liberal medicine during a professional career of several decades and to have seen it gradually asphyxiated. In August 2018, I co-signed our colleague Jean-Carles Grelier's bill on the direction for the future of health. On the one hand, this bill sought to place the patient at the centre of the health system and to establish prevention and health education as a top priority, on the other hand, to present solutions in order to combat inequalities in access to care and the deterioration of the quality of health care, through training, financing, administrative simplification and the evolution of medical practices. These two bills tabled, one during the previous legislature and the other during the current one, were swept away by the two successive majorities. So you can't argue about the lack of a project by the Republicans Group. In conclusion, the review of the bill in committee did not allow the use of the order procedure to be called into question, nor did it allow the administrative supervision of health to be reduced, nor did it allow the local elected representatives to be better involved in the territorialization of health, which we asked for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u37	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It must be noted that those who expected ambitious and urgent action will be disappointed by this bill. For all these reasons, I would ask you to adopt this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u39	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, the Republicans have a request for a public vote before me. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To reply in general to Mr Door, I would like to say that we have chosen, together with Frédérique Vidal, not to propose a cathedral text, which would embrace the whole field of health. We have, and assume, opted for a tight text that has a leverage effect and allows for a transformation of the health system in the territories. Contrary to what you say, MP, it is not a text of over-administration of health; As it is tightened, as it seeks to leverage and as it trusts the territories, it reduces the administration of health and trusts professionals in terms of territorial organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u41	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u42	[[Smile]] The bill provides that many things will be done by ordinances. You will tell me that in the health sector, we like prescriptions, but in this case, there are some problems. The La France insoumée group will therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to take this explanation of vote to draw your attention to the fact that, while our group has tabled only 64 amendments, we have just been advised, even as the examination of the text has already begun, that some of them have been refused under Article 45 of the Constitution. Sixty-four amendments, however, are not unfair! How do you want us to work properly under such conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u43	Yes, it's outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u44	Could we have an explanation of that decision? I would point out that Rule 45 provides that any amendment must be linked to the text tabled. But one of the amendments rejected concerns Lyme disease: can I be told how this does not relate to the bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u45	Lyme disease has nothing to do with the organization of the health system!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u46	I would like to have an answer, so that we can work in good conditions, without seeing our amendments swept away by the service of the sitting, even though the examination of the text has already begun.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u47	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u49	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u50	The President of the Republic said that our health care system was out of breath; We say that the staff is out of breath. There is a shortage of staff, a lack of material resources, and yet we still favour savings: 1.6 billion euros in 2017, 900 million euros in 2018. But health is not a commodity; They are above all human beings, who must live in dignity and be respected. We didn't have to meet the same people as the government and the majority! We Communist parliamentarians, as part of our French tour of hospitals and EHPADs, have met thousands and thousands of health professionals: heads of institutions, doctors, nurses, caregivers, as well as administrative and elected staff, who are also mobilizing to ensure that the health system changes. Everyone recognizes that it is this courageous staff that keeps hospitals standing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u51	Absolutely! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u52	These people sometimes ignore their privacy to fill the staff shortage and replace sick colleagues – because there is more and more absenteeism and, very often, overtime worked is not paid. These staff are shouting an alarm, minister, and it is also a cry of anger. They have to cover the emergency emergency. They say that they have learned the protocol of well-contracting, but that they are for their part in abuse. They say it's not their core business, it's not what they learned. In 2018, we identified more than 1800 initiatives, which concern all health professions; the elected representatives also mobilized. But you're still deaf. Your "My Health 2022" plan does not respond to the emergency. Are we going to watch the crooks spend a long time with the patients on it, without being able to intervene, because of lack of staff and beds? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr Dino Cinieri also applauds]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will of course vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. There is an urgent need to take account of reality and provide remedies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u53	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u54	The Libertés et territoires group questioned whether it would be appropriate to vote in favour of this motion. The temptation was great: the abuse of orders would have fully justified it. However, the current situation and the difficulties in accessing health care faced by many of our fellow citizens require the fundamental transformation of our health system – on this point, we agree with the Government. Our group will therefore be a force for proposals to improve and enrich the text, with the aim of putting the patient back at the heart of the health system and increasing the attractiveness of the professions and health structures. We want the debate to take place, even if certain provisions do not agree with us and the text is too vague. It is because it wants to be constructive that the LT group will vote against the rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u55	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] We're being accused of going too fast... It is pleasant that this motion has been defended by a fellow cardiologist, because we have the impression that we are urgently doing a coronary bypass on a patient who, for years, has received no care! It seems urgent to treat a patient who has never been treated properly. That is why we have decided to move forward, and to move forward quickly. Through this motion of rejection, the need for rapid progress in the reform of the early years of schooling is denied. However, we have all known people who have not been able to access the second year. It's tragic; There is a need to broaden the scope of recruitment of new doctors. We all knew people who wanted to be cardiologists but who, as a result of the boarding school, became practitioners in visceral surgery. That is a matter of concern to me; We need to reform that. This motion denies the need for the rapid establishment of territorial occupational health communities. Yet, all healthcare professionals are seeking, for a simple and good reason, it is not the patient's responsibility to coordinate care, but the caregiver. It is unacceptable that today the patient is the only coordinator. There is a need for rapid progress on this point. Through this motion, we deny the incongruity of the lack of digital communication. It is imperative that we go to the emergency room with a shared medical record in a digital health area. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The bill has moved forward in consultation, and it has moved forward quickly. Today we are in the parliamentary consultation phase. Dear colleagues, dear friends, dear colleagues, we share the diagnosis; Let's avoid the denial of care! Our health care system needs treatment. That is why the La République en marche group will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u57	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u58	I am speaking on behalf of the Republican Group. We do not deny the urgency of working to reform our health system, dear colleague, we simply find that out of a total of twenty-three articles, prepared in haste and on which the Government has initiated the accelerated procedure, when this is a matter to which the French are particularly attached, seven empower the Government to proceed by ordinances and the others refer to decrees, which prevent us from properly playing our role as parliamentarians, while our experiences in the territories, our knowledge of the field, our attendance at institutions and everything we know through liberal medicine could have contributed a great deal to this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u59	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u60	Unfortunately, that will not be possible. I would add, since the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs has joined us, that the intensive work we are doing in the Committee on Social Affairs allows us to have knowledge on many subjects. [[Joël Aviragnet applauds]] If you had not opted for the order procedure, we could have been involved in the drafting of this text. We believe that, as it stands, it does not meet the urgent need for reform of our health system. But, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, our fellow citizens are waiting for us to finally respond to the shortage of doctors in the territories. We must also find solutions to the situation of public hospitals, which is explosive – it is not Mrs Biémouret who will contradict me, she who produced a report a few years ago showing that hospital debt remained very high. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Joël Aviragnet also applauds]] All these subjects, we would have liked to discuss them with you. You told us, minister, that you would work together and that parliamentarians would be involved in the reform. With the prescriptions, I don't see how it will be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u61	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u62	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement opposes this motion for a preliminary rejection. Last week, almost 1300 amendments were discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. The minister, who attended all the debates, tried to answer the questions of all parliamentarians. The purpose of this bill is to reshape our health care system in depth to combat medical desertification, promote the separation between city medicine and the hospital, or develop the digital component of health. The time is right to make these changes expected by all French people on the territories. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The debates have been dense and respectful in committee: let us try to ensure that they are still in public session. Many amendments have been tabled for this consideration in the Chamber. Let us debate it, explain our disagreements, defend our amendments, examine each of the proposals. The MODEM Group will continue to defend its own in order to draft the law as closely as possible to the expectations of our fellow citizens; He will also vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u63	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u64	This text, a simple piece of evidence relating to the first two social security financing laws, with the plan "my health 2022", has no additional means. The announcement last week of a budget extension of EUR 300 million may be a boon, but it remains below expectations on the ground. We cannot satisfy ourselves with too much of the use of the ordinances. After the Labour Code, the SNCF and the school, your government chooses to use it to move faster, but without guaranteeing tangible results. These ordinances make our debates obsolete, without weakening our vigilance as to their content. In fact, the debates in committee were not such as to reassure us. With regard to medical demography, instead of providing rapid solutions, the removal of the numerus clausus will only partially solve the problem of medical deserts, within a 10-year period. The additional measure to allow pharmacists to deliver certain medicines will not solve the problem of access by our citizens to quality and proximity care, a matter which is regularly referred to in the complaint books. As public opinion calls for a more coercive system, you systematically rule out such a solution. In a context of crisis in the hospital, which I can testify to – this very morning I was demonstrating in Condom alongside the agents and the population – we regret the absence of a meaningful horizon. No one is fooled by the deceptive appearances of the project of "creation" of local hospitals, which actually announces the dismantling of a network that is proving its worth every day. Finally, the debates in committee did not allow the text to be extended to equally important subjects, such as prevention, disability, the overseas territories and the situation of the EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u65	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u66	[[Ericka Bareigts and Alain Bruneel applaud]] The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u67	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u68	I understand the objective pursued by our colleagues in the Republican Group with this motion of rejection. It is a response to the choice of expedited procedure on a bill that has been highlighted as important to our health care system, and which is also regrettable that it provides for a massive use of prescriptions. However, we will not vote on this motion for a number of reasons. Firstly, while the text may give cause for concern on a few points which can be improved, it also contains several advances, starting, of course, with the deletion of the numerus clausus, although it will obviously not be enough to solve the problem of under-funded areas as doctors. Among other advances, one can also mention the reform of medical studies or the continuation of digitisation. Important work has been done in the Committee on Social Affairs, with many amendments being considered. At this stage, for our group, the text still needs to be improved. We therefore invite you, Madam Minister, to be open to the amendments that will be tabled. Some of them, rejected in committee, will again be defended in court. Presented by different groups in our assembly, they aim to make the text as acceptable as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] As I have indicated, the IDU, Act and Independents Group will therefore not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u69	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u70	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 80 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 17 Against 63
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u71	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u72	On September 18, I was at the meeting that the President of the Republic had set for the actors of the world of health. Like others, I have subscribed to the presidential ambition; Like others, I applauded the expressed desire to transform our health system in depth; Like others, I thought that things were finally going to evolve in the right direction, that the alarm screams coming up from all territories, patients, institutions, professionals themselves, were finally going to be, not only heard, but also, this time, listened. I wanted to see in the presidential process, in the statements made with conviction by the Head of State, a new vision of health, or perhaps only a vision, which has been lacking for twenty-five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u73	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u74	I thought I heard that the old prisms through which we have been looking at health for too long were finally thrown away, out of date, out of date.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u75	They are, we agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u76	I am not, as you know, one of the honourable members of the brotherhood of health professionals who have been sharing orders for twenty-five years. I came to these questions through my experience as a local elected candidate, soaked in the reality of a rural territory. I don't have the technician's eye on health, but the one, no less sharpened, you will allow me to say it, the patient and the citizen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u78	And what I've been seeing for a few years, what I'm discovering month after month, is a system that desperately tries to survive itself. I stopped saying that our health care system was going into the wall, because it is already there, and we refuse to admit it. The public hospital is in great pain; Most often, it holds only because of the tremendous professional and human commitment of the staff, of all the staff without exception. But our hospitals no longer produce quality medicine that our fellow citizens are entitled to expect. Life expectancy in France has not only continued to grow: it has begun the opposite movement. And when life goes on, it's rarely healthy. The generation that precedes us is struggling with the proliferation of chronic diseases: this is the result of years in which prevention and health education have been left fallow. It is likely that our generation and that of our children will be condemned to the same fate. Our hospitals invest only with difficulty, so much on them the weight of a debt that now exceeds 30 billion euros, and that they drag like a ball for ages. The world of medicine is asphyxiated by budget cuts all more drastic and authoritarian than each other. Access to therapeutic innovation has become such an administrative puzzle that many protocols are now being implemented outside France. Can we imagine elsewhere that in France it takes more than 500 days for the administration to obtain an ATU – temporary authorisation for use – and the setting of the price of the innovative molecule by the Economic Committee for Health Products, while a European directive sets the same time limit at a maximum of 180 days, and that Germany proudly displays a 90-day delay? Clearly, one could laugh at it, or at least smile at it, if it were not for the life and treatment of many patients, many of whom will not wait 500 days. I shall shortly refer the matter to the European Court of Human Rights for a ruling on this obvious loss of chances imposed on French patients as a result of the mismanagement of our administrative system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u80	How can we not mention here the tragedy that the closure of pharmacies in rural areas represents for many French people? No less than 180 closures occurred in 2017, at a time when we pretend to discover that official pharmacists are often the last local health representatives with liberal nurses, at a time when it seems to be discovered that the pharmacist is not only a drug dealer. And what can I say, ladies and gentlemen, about French access to health care? From now on, finding a sector 1 general practitioner, a treating physician, the daily doctor, has become impossible in some regions of France, every year larger and now as urban as well as rural. Access to certain disciplines of specialty medicine is only after many, too many months of waiting for an appointment. The situation is no better for access to medical imaging, be it scanners or MRIs. And I must confess, Madam Minister, that it was not the least of your merits to have been the first to take this matter before you and to take a national look at it, when the minister who preceded you had simply abandoned it to elected officials and territories. Finally, I cannot silence the threats to private hospitalization, which the administration has always considered to be the variable for adjusting its budgetary policies. Twenty-one private health facilities are currently under judicial settlement or liquidation. Never had such a situation occurred in France, where it was simply not imaginable. How did we get to this? How could we have so long hidden this dark reality from the French, who, on this and many others, are no longer fooled by official speeches? Moreover, health was not even among the themes of the great national debate: it was the French who imposed it first in the thousands of meetings held throughout France. What, then, are the ills that gnaw our health care system, which he said to himself, not so long ago, was the best in the world?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u81	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u82	I do not claim to have discovered any philosophic stone, but I am responsible for sharing with you the few convictions that I have forged since I carefully observed this huge machine that has become our health care system, first from the outside, then, for eighteen months, from the inside or almost. The first observation is cold, simple and chilling: from 1995 to 2018, the Ministry of Health will have had forty-two holders. Forty-two holders in twenty-five years! This mandate, which may have seemed very short to some and very long to others, is, in most cases, totally insufficient to print a mark, and above all an authority over an administration which essentially operates in a closed vacuum. Health takes time: time to grasp it correctly in its entirety; time to learn to tame an administration that has become tentacular. Since 2009, health has not been a ministry, but fourteen, since each SRA has become a small province segur. It also takes time to understand the issues, all the issues: governance of the health system, fiscal and financial constraints, technological advances, population ageing and strong and sustainable growth demand. None of these aspects can be analysed or dealt with separately. In time, however, little has been given to your predecessors, the minister, and those who have had them have not always made the best use of them. I am among those who have been concerned, in the name of this time necessary for reform, when he said that you could leave, that you could have only overcame things in just eighteen months. I am pleased that this is not the case, if this time surplus is as useful as it is necessary. Because the administration, like nature and more than it does, hates the vacuum – and uncertainty – that of the Ministry of Health has set its course, with or without a minister. It has thus built a body of doctrine almost exclusively based on the public hospital and which, so long after, remains irreparably attached to the ordinances Debré of 1958. Thus, our health care system should first be hospitalized, but also prioritised behind the leading figures of university hospital centres, insurmountable standards of excellence. This is the famous gradation of the care that you will not prevent me from saying and thinking that it also corresponds to a hierarchy of care and, even more so, of the territories: to the remote territories of the Republic, the basic services; to the urban and agglomerated territories, the excellence of the major centres. And what about the budget reading imposed on our health care system? How can we explain, so long after the creation of social security, after the tax has become an important source of its financing, that private insurers have made their entrance, often hollow but very real, in the financing of health, that one always regards health as a public policy necessarily apart, necessarily different? Who is interested in the share of national education in the deficit of the State budget? Who's evaluating it? Who's got eyes on the accounts? Absolutely no one; So that no one – and we must be happy about it – sees no malice either that, in 2019, an additional €850 million is reinjected into national education, when, in the field of health, for twenty-five years, all governments have had their eyes on the social security accounts, chanting the same credo: it's too much! Too many expenses, too many hospitals, too many doctors, too many maternity wards, too many emergency services or surgery, too many acts, too many consultations, too many medicines – perhaps even too many patients. I could continue this sad litany for hours as if I were turning all the pages of the history of our health care system. Of course, for 2019, we have passed a balanced law to finance social security, but at what price? The patient died in good health, and we should shout with joy, especially do not change anything, and continue on this deadly path again? When is a real political inspiration for our health care system? I say "political", of this noble subject which wants in democracy the policies that run and the administration that executes, not the other way around. When is a new look at health finances, a look that obviously does not exclude restructuring to adapt our system to its time, nor the fight against excesses, redundancies and waste, but which is the same as other public policies? This is what I call my vows; This is what could be a true vision for our health care system; That is what, by going back from the head, would make it possible to seriously envisage a transformation of the latter. And that is what I did not find in the text that is submitted to us today. A text that sounds like a step forward: if one can not share some of his choices and his biases, it has the merit of asking some just questions and trying to answer them; And it's another of your own merits, minister. Where, then, does this project seem too small, too short, too narrow to allow us to ambitious a transformation of our health care system? If it fails to address the root causes of the problem, it will only provide a partial solution. It would be that already; It'd be better than nothing. But everyone, provided they demonstrate a minimum of intellectual honesty, will recognize that this will not be enough. I will take the time to give you my own reading of your project, but I wish to say to you right now my regret that it does not go far enough, that it does not attack at the root the evil that has been gnawing our health system for a long time. Your many predecessors, over the past twenty-five years, have not had the courage to do so. I would have liked you to talk to us about governance, organisation and funding, and I would have liked you to be given the means to address these issues; This will obviously not be the case. I would not be able to enter into the analysis of your text unless I pause for a moment on its form. Why did you make the curious and, at the very least, ill-founded choice to divest Parliament of the major issue of health, at the very heart of the great national debate? Why try to justify the unjustifiable by explaining to us, as our colleague Borowczyk did earlier, that the use of ordinances is intended to give time for debate and consultation, even though the constant practice of Article 38 of the Constitution has always served to respond to an emergency? How was it possible to imagine and convince ourselves, at the bottom of government offices, that health was too serious a subject to be entrusted to parliamentarians? You have shown on this point of openness, Madam Minister – other than me will speak of hindsight – by tabling some government amendments in order to give force to the law; Let it be given to you. You have also proposed in committee debates that parliamentarians be involved in the procedure for drawing up and drafting orders. The will is obviously commendable; But even working with parliamentarians, why didn't you just let the legislative process take its course? This recourse to ordinances will obviously remain a task – even though everyone knows that in politics there are no indelible ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u83	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u84	Let us now take the time to talk about the substance. You have decided to delete the numerus clausus. You are right: the logic that prevailed so long and that was to reduce the number of practitioners to reduce health insurance expenses will have greatly contributed to creating and maintaining the disastrous situation in which we find ourselves. Yet keep – and let us keep – hasty announcements and hopes too great. The existence of 10 or 15% more doctors will not solve everything. First – it's obvious – because it will take at least ten years to train them; Then because the curriculum of the studies, as it is organised, does not make it possible to direct the students towards the specialties in tension, first of all general medicine. What will be gained if, by welcoming more students into our faculties, we still cannot meet the legitimate and understandable expectations of our compatriots in search of a treating doctor, both in the city and in the countryside? How can we not regret that your text does not address the redefinition of the duties and functions of the general practitioner? How can you not regret that you did not seize the opportunity to upgrade, including in its rates, this beautiful local medicine? Still in the field of training, you are attacking the totem of the medical studies that had become the national classifying tests. On this point too, I can only agree with you. Ranking the students at the end of the training course to reward the merits was originally a good idea. But the system has quickly derived, and today it is not only the students that are classed, it is the medical specialties that are hierarchical. However, some disciplines, including general medicine, are not winning. Finally, the preparation of the ECNs occupied most of the time of the students at the end of the second cycle – in addition to causing them additional stress, now evidenced by the ever-increasing number of them that develop psychosocial disorders. In short, you had to do it, you did it, and many of them will be grateful to you. I will be much more cautious about the territorial health professional communities – CPTS. First of all, for a somewhat anecdotal reason – and again: I repeat, the French will take ownership of this new territorial health organization all the better because it will bear a name free of any technocratic connotation. As you know, I have a weakness, which I understand you share, for the name of health villages. More fundamentally, you assured us in committee that the initiative to associate would be left to the liberal professionals, and Thomas Mesnier – whose work I want to pay tribute to and listen to – agreed to relax the regime of their authorisation by the regional health agencies. But I'm still dubious. To what extent will these communities be open? Will all health care professionals be able or will they have to integrate them? What effect will it have on tariffs and financial aid not to have reached them? Above all, in the long term, what influence will local hospital groups eventually exercise on these professionals gathered in communities and whose medical projects will have to be in line with those of the GHT? What irrefragable guarantee can you give us that your text does not contain in seed the creation of a large public health service under the authority of the public hospital – realization of the old dream of the ordinances of 1958? Circumspect, I am also concerned about community hospitals. First of all, I repeat, I do not like the expression of gradation of care, which seems to me also to involve a classification of territories. Secondly, because we cannot imagine that all the hospitals that make up our territory are confined to a single medicine, geriatrics most often: how can we attract new inhabitants to the territories – and not only to the most remote ones – but also new practitioners, without a full-function hospital? Of course, I agree with your security imperative. But while safety does require the availability of equipped technical trays and experienced professionals, it sometimes also means that there is no need to give birth in an emergency service without obstetricians or in the firefighters' truck on the maternity road. Let us give more flexibility to the device as well as to the missions of the community hospitals. The law can't do anything. So let the professionals involved – those in the city as well as those in the local hospital – and the elected representatives of the territories engage in dialogue with the ARS and contract according to the needs and means,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u85	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u86	... according to the particularisms too, because no city, no village, no territory in France resembles any other. I would also like you to talk about all the health actors other than doctors, to whom your text does not make enough room in my eyes. The reform of medical studies will inevitably take time, and the success of health villages – really, "CPTS", I don't get used to it! – is based on interprofessionality and on the place and autonomy given to each. Yet, in the midst of the misfortunes of our health system, we have an incredible opportunity: the quality of the training provided to health professionals. Since their level of competence is high, let us optimize it as much as possible. Let us think again, let us review the decrees of acts of many health professions, not to cut croupières to doctors – that would make no sense – but to be able to respond as quickly and as closely as possible to the demand of the patients. Let's look at what pharmacists – they already do a little – but also nurses, massage therapists, midwives, orthoptists and opticians can do more and better in the territories. For finally, what I expect on Saturdays, at two o'clock in the morning, in my little corner of Sarthe, is to be cared for by a healthcare professional who knows whether to treat me or to direct me, and it is not necessary, first of all, that he be a doctor. Finally, Madam Minister – this is not a pro-domo plea – put elected representatives of the territories at the heart of the territorial health organization. For more than ten years, the state has defeated them with the problems posed by medical demography; Give them justice. For years, it has been a good tone to leave them at the edge of the actions of the State; we are discovering or rediscovering the extent to which they are the elected representatives of the proximity, the first step of the Republic. In recent years, we have tried to make them the useful idiots of the Republic, even though they are the strongest pillars of the Republic. Even in recent times, they have not failed. They must therefore be present in the definition and governance of all health authorities, as they are in the front line when a lack arises. They must not make figurative figures, as in the committees of the elected members of the GHT or the hospital supervisory boards: they must have a little more power than influence in the CPTS as in the governance of the local hospitals. Let us also ensure that patients – and not just users – are present in all decision-making bodies. France can no longer be a country divided between knowing and performing. I would even like, I admit, to have your text reflect and reconfigure the entire organization of our health care system from the demand of patients rather than the supply of care. Even better: the concern that should have guided you is that of the individual at home. For we are all subjects of health, even when we are healthy, and that is where a real policy of prevention and health education is beginning, the only way, in the long term, to reduce health insurance expenditure while placing life expectancy on the path to growth. You will have understood that, Madam Minister, I sincerely believe that the matter is not there, despite your undoubted efforts and even if I wish to welcome from this rostrum the openness which you have personally shown and the rapporteurs. It is not that what you will be able to implement is not useful or even – for certain measures – necessary. But it lacks a breath, an inspiration that allows us to address the challenges of our health system in a comprehensive way and to ask all the questions, even the most delicate ones, even those that are annoying. There is a lack of a comprehensive, political and decisive approach to the hyper-administration of our health system, which continues to stifle it, a reform after reform. It will no longer be enough for a plough, even if it is a good bill. The truth urges us to rethink everything, to put everything down, to recast everything. Will France and the French still be able to wait? There was a space to cross, but you'd only have taken one step. The times that come will tell us if, at least, it was in the right direction. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Group of the European People's Party calls for a referral back to committee so that, on this major subject, the time for debate is given back to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u87	On the motion for referral to committee, a request for a public vote is before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u88	It seems to me difficult not to respond to so many inquiries, Mr. Grelier. I would like to return to a number of points that you mentioned at the beginning and end of your speech, as well as to Mr Bruneel's question about health facilities and the commitment of professionals. I agree, for the past 15 years, that the working conditions of professionals in health facilities have gradually deteriorated. This year, we have made a considerable effort to give these professionals hope and show them our commitment: for the first time in ten years, we have increased hospital fees to breathe new life into the hospital; we have thawed all the 2018 appropriations that had been put in reserve – 415 million euros have been returned to the institutions, to which we granted 300 million euros last week. These means reflect the confidence we place in the institutions before we begin this reform, which will finally give meaning to their mission. Of course, professionals need resources – we put them on the table – but they also need to know in what direction we want to go, what organisation we propose, what objectives to achieve. We believe that by strengthening community medicine, it is possible to relieve hospitals of certain missions to which they are not prepared and for which they are not necessarily the best armed. I am making this commitment to the professionals today. This reform responds to the need to give them meaning and perspective. You stress the risk that the gradation of care will lead to a hierarchy. That's not the case. The gradation of care is a universally recognized and international concept, which allows for a better distribution of technical trays and skills within a territory. However, not everything goes back to the CHU or the public hospital. The gradation of care offers prospects for private medicine – a private institution can thus play the role of technical platform of proximity for interventional medicine, for example. The gradation of care refers only to an organization of recourse care, regardless of the actor, in relation to community care. This is a gradation, not hierarchical, but organizational. In the field of medicine, I would like to contradict your statement that evaluation, reimbursement and access time are not sufficient. Today, delays in access to innovative medicines are the shortest in the world for French patients. Why? Because we have introduced temporary authorisations for use that allow access to innovation even before marketing authorisation. The delays you are criticising, Mr Grelier, allow French patients to have access to medicines that they would not find anywhere else, especially in Germany. They are the ones who gain early access to innovation. These deadlines include the time for price negotiations, which support innovation and provide access to all patients across the country. I want these negotiating deadlines to be preserved. This is the first time that a bill deals with proximity and community care; This is the first time he's not been "hospitalized." This is the first time that the approach has focused on the territories and needs of patients. I contest your analysis that this text would not focus on patients. I was part of the journey of an elderly polypathological patient confronted with the labyrinth of our care system and the partitioning between hospital and city as well as between professionals. I concluded that the whole system had to be cleared. It is from the needs of patients throughout the territory that this text has been drawn up. It is true that this text does not embrace the whole health system, especially not prevention. I explained why I did not wish to make this bill a cathedral text. It is a text that gives meaning, gives freedom to the territories as well as to the professionals to organize themselves, which gives more room to the elected representatives – I have accepted many amendments from all the benches to restore the presence of the elected representatives in all the arrangements that contribute to the organization on the ground. The text reaffirms that the public hospital is not the centre of the device. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You know, the law can't do anything. As a result of the ground-based initiatives, differentiated solutions will be possible. The moult is in progress. It is in professionals and in our organizations. Not everything will come from Segur, not even from the little Segur, Mr. Grelier. Everyone understood that there must be room for initiatives on the ground. The moult will also come from the Members you are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u89	In explanation of vote, Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u90	Referral to committee seems entirely justified. I pointed out earlier that we are learning as the debate proceeds about the inadmissibility of the amendments. One can worry about the number of amendments – more than 2000 have been tabled – and question the reasons for this inflation. Perhaps the Members considered that there were far too many gaps in the text and wanted to fill them with their amendments. We cannot debate a text and vote on it without having all the legislative means to defend our point of view, in this case all our amendments. With respect to orders, referral to committee would allow you, minister, to introduce the provisions you are considering and incorporate them into the bill. In this way, we could discuss a well-thought-out and well-worked text. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u91	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u92	I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. After justice or education, the Government wants to see a third major reform that concerns legitimate or public-interest missions, that of health, while the French, in various forms, set out their vision of the future and their proposals for a better life. This is the only argument that justifies referral back to committee. Secondly, this bill comes after two budgets that have penalized public hospitals, health revenues and our social security. We do not have the short memory: health prevention of proximity is a major issue, including in your eyes, you claim, however, the first step you have taken is the disappearance of the CHSCT, a measure of how emblematic of a government that allows the exploitation of bodies and minds to become more burdensome. As a result, medical and social diagnoses are getting worse in our territories. There are no plans for fragile audiences, neither for EHPADs, nor for school medicine, which is a major subject for our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Dino Cinieri also applauds]] It is certainly not a cathedral text, for you refuse to sanctify health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u93	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u94	There were many expectations of Members of Parliament, health professionals and users of the bill. The use of prescriptions, orders-in-council and conventional negotiations deprives us of a clear vision of the organization and transformation of the health care system that you propose to us. The provisions are too vague and the discussions in committee have not been enough to alleviate the fears of the Liberties and Territories Group. Moreover, the choice of orders considerably limits parliamentary debate while, at the same time, our fellow citizens call for more consultation and dialogue. Your method on such an important subject is certainly not the right one. In addition to this, our working conditions – several colleagues mentioned them – have not been optimal in order to address this text calmly. Between our debates in committee and the public sitting, there were only three days. We cannot work constructively under these conditions. That is why, as you will understand, the Libertés et territoires Group will vote in favour of the motion for referral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u95	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u96	This bill is part of the continuity of the 2019 PLFSS. This re-foundation of our health care system is also a witness to the changes and changes in our society. Jean Monnet said that the complexity of the problems, the richness of the suggestions and even the strength of the critics can only move things forward if we do not lose sight of the objective to be achieved. And the goal is to provide our people with an offer and quality of care that is accessible to all. In view of the ageing population and the inflation of chronic diseases, meeting this challenge is a necessity. This involves appropriate, common-sense responses, ripened by numerous hearings of users, elected representatives and health actors, as well as collective work in committee. It requires concrete patient-centred proposals, which are placed at the heart of our care system. The bill allows for a better organization thanks to the CPTS, the creation of community hospitals, advanced consultations, as well as the best medico-social articulation between the city and the hospital, from caregiving to the social worker, to the nurse, the physiotherapist and the doctor. Training, career development, but also the elimination of the numerus clausus, which leaves thousands of young people in distress, or the reform of the second cycle, are all ways to respect the human in its care mission and dignity, and to respond to the suffering in hospital as organizational rigidities and financial tensions have increased. A better organization of the health system is also freeing up medical time through the recruitment of 4000 medical assistants, and using digital in medical practices – teleconsultation, e-prescription, use of health data as well as good management of shared medical records, respecting confidentiality. The increase of more than 400 million ONDAM, the reform of the T2A – activity pricing – and the regulation of health spending also meet this ambition. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the moving Republic Group will not vote on this motion for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u97	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u98	In the course of the committee debates, the bill was amended only at the margin on important points. On the other hand, the number of items has almost doubled, with additions to the sometimes very relative importance. Pointy on detail, blind to the essential; result: no significant progress, with the exception of two prescriptions on local hospitals and Mayotte, some of which have been transcribed directly into the law, not without leaving serious doubts. The whole thing's been pretty blurry. The bill will not really call into question the ordinances, the real marker of this government, nor will it lighten the administrative tutelage on health. As Mrs Fiat has pointed out, amendments are declared inadmissible even though we have begun its consideration in open session. This argument alone would justify his return to committee. For these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party calls for a vote in favour of referring the matter back to committee. The text clearly does not contain the necessary measures to give our health care system the breath it needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u99	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u100	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u101	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports the profound changes that will be undertaken by the bill. These changes are expected and necessary to meet the many challenges we face. The text aims to address the shortage of care in some territories through innovative solutions, to improve the training of our future doctors and to make a real digital transformation of our health system. It will enable everyone to be better treated tomorrow. This is the most important objective, which the Republican Group can only share, I think. How can we not support the end of the numerus clausus, an unjust and ineffective system? How can we not wish for a more collective and coordinated exercise of medicine? How can we refuse to act to finally break down city medicine and the hospital and offer more coherent care routes? [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Health is one of the main concerns of the French, and that is understandable. It was therefore urgent to carry out this reform of our health system. The MODEM Group actively participated in the work in committee by defending many amendments which were intended to supplement the text constructively. We will continue this work in public session, hoping that the debates on this crucial subject will be of quality, in the interest of French and French people. The MODEM Group will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u102	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u103	This text, with which you intend to reorganize the health supply, does not address the main concern of the French: the absence of doctors in most of our territories. It is not the pseudo-deletion of the numerus clausus that will suffice for the training of general practitioners and specialists who are cruelly lacking in not only rural but also urban territories. It is also not by declassifying peripheral hospitals into community hospitals that health practitioners will be attracted, which are not, in any case, large enough. In fact, in the opinion of field professionals, until the Government has the political courage to address the issue of regulating the installation of doctors in the Territory, the situation will remain unchanged. Especially since this government prefers to delegate medical tasks to paramedical actors rather than opening up the front of the fair distribution of doctors throughout the territory of the Republic. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u104	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u105	This motion is somewhat the same as the previous one. The speaker who defended her expressed criticism and made proposals, already initiating substantive debate on the bill. You have responded, Madam Minister, to concerns expressed by others or by us. With regard to territorial hospital groups, you indicated that the text did not contain any elements that could lead to a form of centralisation of the public hospital or to a prioritisation of the provision of care and health care in the territories. In the course of the discussion, if necessary thanks to the proposed amendments, we will have to make this guarantee even more tangible, because the practice of hospital groups in the territory reveals a certain tendency towards the centralisation of decisions and means for the benefit of the central institution. You do not wish, you said, that this text is a "Cathedral Law". It is therefore not intended to solve all the problems we have in the field of health in France. Therefore, the title of the bill could have been a little less ambitious: it could have been referred to as "adaptation" rather than "transformation" of the health system. In any event, other legislative vehicles will be needed to revisit a number of elements that are not taken into account in the text. We are in the debate today. That is why the IUD, Action and Independent Group will not vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u106	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u107	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 78 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 17 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u108	Two votes less than in the previous vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u109	In the general debate, Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u110	A year and a half ago, at the beginning of the legislature, I asked you about the collapse of our health system and the working conditions in our health and medical-social institutions. I had then described the fourteen basic needs defined by Virginia Henderson, to which caregivers normally have to respond but whose satisfaction they compromise, due to lack of time and resources. My first intention was to take stock, twenty months after I spoke, of each of these fourteen needs. However, there has been no improvement, despite two bills to finance social security. The situation has even worsened: savings were made to the tune of €4 billion in 2018, and you expect almost the same for 2019. Our health care system has long been one of the most successful in developed countries, cited worldwide as a reference model. Built at a time when the country was weakened, it has been undergoing a policy of liberalization for thirty years and is gradually destroying it. In this context, what could we expect from a health bill? To answer this question, allow me to propose fourteen "political" needs, so that our country once again has a real health policy, and to analyze your bill with them. First need: well-trained caregivers. With this bill, minister, you say you want to periodically re-evaluate the knowledge of doctors. However, knowing your taste for austerity, we are entitled to ask ourselves whether the public authorities will finance such a measure: who will pay? Who's going to train? You'll have to lift the veil. The risk is to entrust the general interest, once again, to unscrupulous private companies. Second need: sufficient numbers of caregivers. I wonder: should we rejoice at the end of the numerus clausus? In committee, you rejected our amendment to include in the law a real increase in the number of trained doctors. And what about the number of caregivers in health facilities, especially in our EHPADs? For a year now, Minister Iborra and I have recommended that you set a minimum ratio of caregivers to residents to end institutional abuse. At this time, nothing, absolutely nothing, has been done to remedy this overwhelming situation. I cannot believe, Madam Minister, that the word "abuse" does not make you react, that you manage to ignore this horrific observation. Only you have the means to act. Could you do it as soon as possible, please? That would be nice... Third need: equitable distribution of caregivers throughout the country. You say you want incentives to address medical desertification. Do not pretend, Madam Minister, you know, like all of us here, that they have shown their ineffectiveness. Selective agreement, on the other hand, has already proved its worth for nurses, midwives and physiotherapists. With your bill, rural areas will have to settle for remote, interposed screen, telehealth or telemedicine. Fourth need: teamwork. Turnover at the hospital seriously affects teamwork and continuity of care. The bill promotes the use of contract workers and encourages hospital physicians to practise liberal medicine. Is your unconvinced goal, then, to create a great mercato of medicine? Fifth need: access to health for all. I ask you a little guess: is it by allowing the practice of exceeding fees in health institutions of collective interest, by closing hospitals and maternity hospitals and by promoting a liberal medicine less well reimbursed and poorly distributed in the territory that you will facilitate access to health for all French people? Sixth need: sufficient beds and hospitals. Because of the removal of beds, caregivers lose their time running in the corridors in search of a free room, while queues lengthen in the emergency room. Maternity and hospital closures continue, to the detriment of sick, injured or about to be delivered. To the extent that the bill tends to force hospital groups, the situation will only worsen. Seventh need: a healthy relationship between hospital and city medicine. Contrary to what you're saying, we're not going to see an association between city medicine and hospital medicine, but we're going to see a loosening of the public hospital for the benefit of liberal medicine. However, it is not a public service model, especially in sector 2. Freedom of installation, fee overruns and atomization do not allow and will never allow an offer of care worthy of this name. On the other hand, we could bring hospitals closer to city health centres, but your bill does not allow it. Eighth need: cooperation between caregivers. You say you want to create cooperation between doctors while everything in our financing system pushes them to competition. Activity pricing remains the rule, and the authority of managers is the norm. However, the hospital is not a company. Doctors, midwives, anaesthetists, masseur-kinesitherapists, nurses, caregivers, medical-psychological aids, and all others are not traders; They're health professionals. They must be regarded as such and given the means to exercise their profession under the best possible conditions. Ninth Need: Protected Health Data. You have had two years, minister, to draft this bill. One of the key measures highlighted is the creation of a health data platform and a digital health space. However, nothing is proposed to eliminate the risks associated with the sale of health data to private boxes such as banks, insurance companies or social providers. Your bill does not provide any guarantees on this matter, and we have had to ask you about these dangers in committee so that you can finally ask yourself about it. I sincerely hope that you will propose, as promised, a government amendment in session. In case I retabled the one we defended in committee. Tenth need: a true health democracy. The bill aims to further centralize power in the hands of territorial hospital groups and maintains the dominance of regional health agencies. For their part, some patient associations are forced to finance themselves from the pharmaceutical industries in order to survive. I repeat: to the pharmaceutical industries! But not a word has been said about them. Eleventh need: living in a healthy environment. It may be difficult to achieve this if we continue to encourage junk food, do nothing against the use of pesticides and increase social inequalities. The bill also seeks to reduce water quality controls. Twelfth Need: Reliable Health Products. By your silence, you are again complicit in pharmaceutical laboratories and health industries, which take advantage of ultra-laxist regulations to sell dangerous drugs and medical devices at indecent prices. In your bill, you do not propose any measures to regulate the sector. This is even the opposite, since, with article 15, the causes of supply disruptions will not be investigated. Thirteenth need: decent working conditions for doctors and caregivers. In recent years, caregivers have seen their working conditions deteriorate, leading to work accidents, fatigue, stress, ill-being, resignation and massive absenteeism. Would your silence on this be a guilty silence? Fourteenth need: sufficient resources in our emergencies, in our hospitals, in our EHPADs, in our psychiatric hospitals and more generally in all health and medical-social institutions. You are reducing the means again and again, already very insufficient. How do you want this to work? This is a review of the fourteen political needs for our health care system that you are proposing in the text. This bill is that of health inequalities, the abandonment of rural areas, medical desertification, the detrictness of our public hospitals, the liberalization of our health data. And what about the means used? You're asking us to sign blank cheques. By way of a prescription, you want to review the status of hospital practitioner, the missions of community hospitals, local hospital groups, RSAs. Unable to treat our care system, you would also like to aggravate the case of our sick democracy! Ultimately, the means – cruelly inadequate – available to us are devoted to liberal medicine; Nothing is done to rebuild our public hospital system and our public health system. No, Minister, health is not for sale. Finally, I would like to read you the testimony received recently from a Cheylard caregiver: "Minister, it is with disgust and the ball in the belly that I leave this raft of the Medusa. This morning, I am alone for ninety-nine residents, thirty dressings, an acute oedema of the lung, several recent fall monitoring and I pass. This morning, I cracked. I'm stressed, so stressful and, in my opinion, abusive. I don't want anyone to be cracked like the residents are rushing. Available to no one, in the inability to create any relationship with families and users, which, you will agree, is quite paradoxical in what is called a "place of life", I lashe. I stoop and act like a robot to go to the essentials of the ninety-nine lives for which I have responsibility. I'm in a slaughter plant that crushes humanity from the lives it houses, in pajamas or in white coats. Can you sleep? I don't. What if it was you? Your parents? Your loved ones? What do we want to do for our elderly people? For the next ones? » [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] There's only one thing to remember from this bill: I'm afraid we'll have to wait for 2022 and a new government to finally consider a real health bill here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u111	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u112	It is increasingly difficult to treat and treat in our country. Many rural, urban and peri-urban territories lack general practitioners and specialists. The hospital is in crisis, the staff are in pain. Two thirds of the population live in an area with inadequate care or difficulties in accessing care, and 18 per cent live in a priority intervention area. Inequalities in the right to health are widening. This is the result of policies based on the reduction of health expenditure, based on the commodification of health. How can we accept the significant degradation of a model that was one of the best performing in the world? We cannot, we must not. No one thinks that it would be enough to get out of this crisis overnight. She's deep.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u114	But the problem is that, in the face of the ills of our health system as well as those of our society, you always practice neoliberal medicine. And experience tells us that his remedies are worse than evil, when they are not the source. How can we tell hospital staff who are suffering, patients who are patient, territories that are undressed that this is not a matter of means but simply of organization? However, this is the guideline of the bill before us. Every year, our health care system is given an extra screw trick to further compress resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u115	Not this year!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u116	There is an urgent need to emerge from this crisis of financing and from this choice of chronic underfunding. It is this choice that justifies the forward flight that is being presented to us today. Our health care system must be able to transform itself in order to meet the challenges with the means of our time, but we cannot expect it to do better with ever more compressed resources, otherwise its reorganization will limit to a reduction of sails and a closing of breaches. I spoke of flight ahead because the revision of the hospital card, if we read between the lines, will arbitrarily declassify hospitals and close services, including surgical trays and maternity wards. How much? It will also lead to further damage to territories and will have an impact on the development of medical deserts. In the end, gradation may turn into degradation. I have spoken of a flight forward because the accentuation of clusters of THGs is done without the lessons of experience being drawn, in a logic of centralization and concentration more often than of cooperation. I talked about running forward because the ambulatory bend is done on two wheels and overspeed, not without damage. I have spoken of a flight forward because the offshoring of merit applies to many between the public and the private, installing or accelerating the great confusion as well as the use of the public in for-profit approaches. This logic of unbundling, of open space could quickly turn at the open bar! Beyond this spine, there are necessary provisions in the draft. This is true of the end of the numerus clausus – at last! But is this a symbolic decision or will it have any effects? What will be its means and objectives? By the way, how could it be of some help to us? This is true of the installation of a health data platform, which deserves eye-catching supervision, and which can provide essential elements for prevention policy. This is true of encouraging the use of the public service contract, which goes in the right direction. But this restructuring plan, since that is what is at stake, does not set the stage. That is not how we can take the necessary momentum for a further development of our health care system. It'd be more like a fresh spin. Will we really be able to debate this, when, through this bill, you are primarily asking us to give up legislation to let the government act outside the radar? However, we would have a lot to propose. Many subjects remain in the shadows and we know the considerable effort we must make to turn to offensive prevention policies. In our view, longer working hours are not part of this, especially in the health professions. Here we are before ordinances, while everywhere there is a strong demand for health democracy. This morning, we welcomed here health actors who met during our Tour de France des hôpitaux, to continue to debate and clarify the contours of the great progressive reform of health which imagines itself everywhere to take care of the human. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] "The Power defeats and recomposes our jobs and our missions by exposing more and more professionals and users to the "natural" laws of the market," wrote the signatories of the Call for Calls in 2009. Let's change protocol!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u117	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u118	In 20 years, half of the maternity wards have closed. According to a report by the Court of Auditors, there were 498 births left in 2018 for 758,000. This is the result of concentration. This figure is symptomatic of a more general problem that we are familiar with now and on which the Freedom and Territory Group is fully committed: access to care throughout the country. At the end of 2017, according to the localized potential accessibility indicator – the new measuring tool of the DREES, the direction of research, studies, evaluation and statistics – 18% of the population are faced with insufficient or unsatisfactory care. The difficulties relate both to access to healthcare facilities, to general and specialized medical practitioners, and to certain paramedical professions, such as physiotherapists, all in rural areas as well as in urban areas, so that it is not uncommon for our citizens to give up their care, resigned and forced by inaccessibility, journeys to be made, waiting times and the cost of care. This is unacceptable! More specifically, the pitfalls of our health care system are twofold: they concern patients on the one hand, and health care professionals on the other. At the same time, our group believes that we need to propose a twofold response: to strengthen proximity by placing the patient at the heart of our system, and to increase the attractiveness of the professions and health structures. It is certainly not a question of opposing these two types of actors by forcing one to meet the requirements of the other. On the contrary, the challenge is to reconcile the expectations and needs of everyone. If we look at the numbers more closely, we actually see an increase in the number of doctors enrolled in the College. That should reassure us. But it is still the same areas that benefit from their installation, to the detriment of those that have experienced a decline in their numbers year after year. In addition, as our population ages, particularly as a result of chronic diseases, our health needs are increasing. However, the increase in the number of doctors does not sufficiently satisfy this growing demand. The availability of medical time is decreasing, the aspirations of healthcare professionals are changing. They too want to reconcile professional and private life. We must admit that the time of the family doctor available 24 hours a day is definitely over. All these societal changes require a profound transformation of our health care system. Policies in place, including facility incentives, have not met the expected objectives. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore considers that a change of software is necessary to address the many concerns. Indeed, health has become a major concern, which has been widely mentioned in the major national debate launched by the President of the Republic. As well, our expectations, those of health professionals and citizens were numerous and demanding with respect to the "My Health 2022" plan. Unfortunately, for the time being, our group is not convinced of all the measures proposed in this bill. First and foremost on form: the use of ordinances on such an important subject is certainly not the right method. It is never a good idea to short-circuit public and parliamentary debate. This is even less so in the current context of distrust of our institutions. The time must be for consultation, discussion, not for the choices imposed since the highest state summit, without dialogue with those who know the problems of our care system in the territories. Minister, you have tried to dispel our fears by rewriting certain orders in committee. You have also undertaken to return to the Committee on Social Affairs before the ratification of these ordinances. For parliamentarians, however, there is a difference between being fully involved in the writing of the law and being able to validate an order a posteriori. And let us not talk about our working conditions, which oblige us, in order to table our amendments, to comply with very strict deadlines and deprive us of any hindrance in our discussions in committee. This feeling seems to me to be widely shared on the benches of our Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u119	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u120	Now let's get to the bottom. For the Libertés et territoires group, there is indeed a step forward in this text: the reform of health studies. It was necessary, it's true, but let's be honest, it's not about removing the numerus clausus – it's repeated in the envious – but only about raising it by about 20%. However, while the idea is good, it does not seem to be settled, particularly with regard to the diversification of student profiles. And above all, without investment, how can universities welcome their new students? Furthermore, we would have liked the future distribution of students to go even further in taking account of the specificities of the territories. That is why our group will propose genuine regional boarding schools to address territorial inequalities. Finally, the increase of the numerus clausus will be effective by the beginning of 2020, with expected results by 2030. In the meantime, what do we do? The parliamentary committee on equal access to the care of the French throughout the country, of which Philippe Vigier, chairman of our group, was rapporteur, had made many proposals. Some have been partially taken over, but insufficiently or inappropriately. We are concerned that the new "neighbourhood hospitals" classification will result in the decommissioning of some facilities. Indeed, it poses an additional threat to access to care, especially for our citizens who are less mobile or who live in isolated or landlocked territories. This raises, among other things, the question of transport, which is not settled and is a real concern in mountain areas. This classification is most likely to result in the de facto closure of many operating blocks. On the ground, there is a great deal of concern, both on the part of elected officials and professionals. The Association des médecins émergistes de France recalls that beyond 30 minutes, the mortality rate increases by 9% for emergencies and by 30% for serious injuries. This loss of luck is not tolerable. With regard to the long-awaited break-up between city medicine and the hospital, the measures are still weak. We can go further to encourage mixed exercise. More flexibility and initiatives are needed for physicians to adapt more quickly and effectively to the realities of the field. This is the purpose of our proposal to create a flying doctor status, which could come to support an installed doctor, as needed – we will come back to it during the discussions. Decommissioning must also involve the removal of borders between the public and the private sector. To this end, we are in favour of a strong public hospital service and a strong private sector, working together to improve the care of the patient, without discriminating the nature of the structures. More specifically, cooperation must be the key to the strategy of organizing our health system. We also welcome your willingness to encourage the territorial networking of the territorial health professional communities, the CPTS. Coordinated exercise must become the rule. Nevertheless, we still have many doubts about the funding of STCPs, including the remuneration of the time spent by liberal practitioners on the development of the territorial health project and the organization of STCPs. These issues must be the result of an initiative by health professionals, in consultation with local users and elected officials. The RSA's power in this area is still too strong. Health democracy must be given priority over the imposition from the top, by a technostructure bounded by an accounting logic. We have tabled a number of amendments to this effect, and be assured that we will be paying attention to these issues in our discussions. We must not lose sight of the fact that the difficulties of our health system are symptomatic of an even broader problem, which has been linked to the attractiveness of our territories. Public services, not just in the field of health, close one after another, leaving our fellow citizens increasingly isolated and deprived. Without a broader policy to respond to this loss of attractiveness in our territories, I fear that no health plan will succeed. Finally, without considerable investment in improving the attractiveness of trades and structures, the objectives will be difficult to achieve. I am thinking above all of all of the health professionals, both liberal and hospital, whose skills, but also humanity and listening, are tested every day to provide us with quality care, despite the difficulties they face on a daily basis. I do not want to ignore the revalorisation of the tariffs, nor the refund of the appropriations provided by ONDAM, for an amount of 300 million euros, which is in addition to the 415 million in December 2018. This is just justice. These appropriations are expected to reduce the deficit in public hospitals to around EUR 600 million. This shows that much remains to be done. You will have understood, Madam Minister, that our discussions in committee on this text were not enough to alleviate the fears of the Libertés et territoires group. We expect more from our future discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u121	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u122	Heritability of the Thirty Glorious, our health care system is traversed, despite its excellence, by uncertainties that characterize a model in transition. If this bill does not aim to provide a definitive response to all of these uncertainties, it is a powerful lever to empower itself. To overcome these uncertainties, you must dare. Let us dare to change our references, consider other options to reform health studies that do not satisfy students, teachers, or our fellow citizens. Other possibilities include abolishing the national classifying tests, whose name speaks for itself and implies that the choice of the professional future of the students will be defined by their ranking. I know that, I saw it, I lived it, and I still saw it in contact with the young people I was around. At what point did we think it was good to destroy 25,000 vocations each year through a selection system whose young people denounce violence? The CAPES imposes a culture of competition, a balance of forces between students, instead of emulation, benevolence, cooperation necessary to serve the health of our fellow citizens. In a formation that must be deeply humanistic, the cutet of the contest promotes individual success, each for himself. This is the same principle that we reproduce after six years, for our young doctors, with the national classification tests. The numerus clausus, created in 1971, and the ECNs followed a flow management logic, which was not intended to allow the student to find his place, but a place. This is a course where cognitive and mnesic excellence prevails. But being well cared for also means being listened to, understood, encouraged. This benevolence is learned. It is finally to consider, like the philosopher Georges Canguilhem, that medicine is not a science or only a science, but an art, at the crossroads of several sciences, especially humanities, which can allow us to grasp the subjectivity of patients. This attention to the other is built when you have benefited yourself. Dr. Donata Marra's report on the "quality of life of health students" has led to the formulation of fifteen commitments to improve the well-being of students and professionals. Sections 1, 2 and 3 of the bill carry this ambition. We will therefore carry out a major act by removing the numerus clausus and the national classifying tests; by supporting students more, by improving their well-being, by opening up these studies more, by forming much more varied profiles; finally, in a collective and cooperative dynamic, while maintaining the same excellence. With regard to cooperation, the Group of the Republic on the move is proud to have tabled an amendment in committee, which will make it possible to experiment with a common core between the medical and paramedical professions. This same paradigm is found throughout the bill. To coercion, to constraint on installation, we prefer to support innovation, to support the construction of new forms of multi-professional exercise, to encourage cooperation, to promote modern techniques for quality medicine, where they are most needed. Professionals and students feel responsible for the health equity that we owe to our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille also applauds]] I have met a large number of students and young professionals in the last few weeks. They're waiting for this. They're asking us to trust them. I see it on my territory, the department of Eure, where medical demography is among the weakest in France. Some have understood this for the past ten years, allowing for an increase in health supply through pooling of resources, the decompartment of the private and the public. Let's get out of the individual culture to instill a dynamic team, a health community where everyone, using as a professional, builds health for all. We have more than we need. That is the prospect of the future. The Government and the majority have this perspective. Young people want it. Professionals believe it. Today, we propose that you do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u123	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u124	After the law of "modernizing our health care system", enacted under the previous five-year rule, we are now called upon to consider a new and important piece of legislation, the bill on the "organization and transformation of the health care system": two founding texts in three years, two texts that are expected to respond to the challenges of our health care system in the years to come. At the outset, I mean, our country has a quality health system, which is driven by doctors, researchers, and health personnel of exemplary professionalism. We benefit from quality medicine, but also from a very protective social system. I would like to pay tribute, in this regard, to all medical and health-care personnel, but also to those who, over the years, have built this essential protection that is envied by many countries. However, there are many difficulties facing this system. Your role, Madam Minister, that of the Government and the President of the Republic, remains to do everything possible to ensure that the French and French can continue to be well cared for. It is in this spirit that, on 18 September 2018 at the Élysée, the President of the Republic announced the "My Health 2022" plan, which will enable us to reform our health policy to provide better access to care for all our citizens, regardless of their age, territory or means. The 2019 Social Security Funding Bill provided you with the opportunity to adopt the first measures of this plan, mainly the implementation of the remaining zero charge for optics, dental and audioprosthetics. Finally, we are looking at this bill that has been so announced. This text was very much expected, in particular because the Touraine law of 26 January 2016 did not solve any of these great challenges – what we had, at the time, predicted. That is to say, successive governments have mishandled this vital issue for our country. That is to say, the announcement of your text, Minister, has raised much hope in the world of health, as the needs are great. Yes, Madam Minister, our hospitals – the public hospital in particular – are breathless. Yes, minister, our compatriots, for many of them, despair of having access to a general practitioner or community-based care services. We know the causes of the ills that gnaw our health system: the lack of resources available to hospitals, the lack of attractiveness of liberal practice, the isolation of doctors in areas of desertification and a growing lack of health-care personnel. Many of our fellow citizens today give up care because of the lack of doctors available. We all share that fact. The real solutions are still lacking, and unfortunately I fear that this text is far from meeting our country's expectations, even though it contains some progress that we would like to stress. This is in particular the case of the procedure for re-certification of doctors throughout their careers, provided for in Article 3 of the reform of the status of hospital practitioner, in Article 6, which will attempt, on the one hand, to put an end to a multiplicity of statutes, which are burdensome to administer administratively, and, on the other hand, to clarify their tasks. This is also the case with Title III, which aims to develop digital health, a development that we must take into account in the improvement of our health system. We also approve of the creation of a regional health agency in Mayotte, so much the equal access to care in all our territories, metropolitan and ultra-marine, must be encouraged. This territory faces major challenges; That is why I thank you, Madam Minister, for proposing an amendment in committee, which made it possible to include this proposal in the law. The work in committee has enabled us to make some improvements to this bill, often against the will of the Government and the rapporteur, through the adoption of several amendments aimed at better integrating local and regional authorities in the implementation of health policies in their territory. The structuring of the health path beyond general medicine alone is also a welcome step forward. A number of provisions aimed at integrating official pharmacists into the care pathway were also incorporated into the text during our discussions. Finally, I personally appreciated that you agreed to retain two of my amendments: one concerning the representation of users on the supervisory boards of hospital groups in the territory and another – whose paternity is the responsibility of Rémi Delatte – concerning the representation of parliamentarians in an advisory capacity on those same supervisory boards. Minister, we recognize that this bill brings some welcome improvements to our health care system. We would also like to stress the intensity of the work in committee, as well as the constructive spirit that prevailed there. However, this text seems far from the expectations of the world of health, far from meeting the challenges posed by medical desertification, the explosion of spending in our public hospitals and hospital emergencies. I say "seems" because this text plunges us largely into the unknown: out of twenty-three articles, seven empower the Government to legislate by ordinances, two refer to decrees and two proceed with the ratification of ordinances. In other words, half of the text remains to be written. It will be done by the Government, especially through its administration. In short, once again, it will exclude parliamentarians from this work. However, we believe that our vision of the territories, our attachment to them and our field experiences could have complemented a purely technocratic or exclusively medical vision. We believe that the consultation that you are going to undertake now should have taken place before the drafting of this text, so as to lead to a final draft that will meet the expectations of our country. Minister, I am convinced that you are aware of this insufficiency. Evidence of this is your commitment, made in committee, to involve parliamentarians in the drafting of orders. This wish is commendable, provided that he does not remain pious and, unfortunately, he commits only you! At the moment, it is difficult for us to decide on the reform of the first cycle of health studies, the implementation of which is foreseen by decree, or to see clearly in the abolition of the numerus clausus, a decision which is approved by everyone. To our questions, you do not answer. What are your plans for universities to adapt to the arrival of new students, while most amphitheatres are already saturated? What have you planned to allow hospitals to accommodate all these future externals, who will then become internal? What have you planned for the removal of the numerus clausus to benefit the sectors affected by medical desertification, while we all know that less than 15% of medical students are now choosing the liberal sector? These are questions that we do not have answers to, except for the announcement of a decree by the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. It is also difficult for us to decide on the creation of a unique status as a hospital practitioner, although we know that it is expected and that we approve it. But here too, the use of an order gives this measure a very vague character, which is regretted by all the people we have heard. Finally, it is difficult for us to comment on the establishment of community health facilities, as there are still many questions about them. What will their missions be? Will they meet the needs of the territories? What will their funding model be? What autonomy will they have? Will they be under the supervision of local hospital groups? To all of these questions, you refer us to prescriptions to get the answers. As one of my colleagues said in committee, we know that the prescription is a usual practice in medicine, but we would have done well there! The development of telemedicine and telecare will not end medical deserts, which are often digital deserts. Similarly, neither the extension of the status of assistant doctor nor the extension of the scope of the public service contract to practitioners with foreign degrees outside the European Union will solve the problem. These are nothing but raw materials that will not prevent the development of a two-speed medicine in the territories. I will of course have the opportunity to return to all these points, and many others, during the discussion of the articles. There are three of them, however, that seem to me to be the great forgotten ones of your bill, while they are part of the major health policy issues. When you took up your duties, Madam Minister, you committed yourself to making prevention the main focus of your policy, an objective to which I adhere. Nothing in the text reflected that intention, although prevention should have been the guiding principle. The second subject on which I will be led to come back, through my amendments, concerns disability policy. Here too, the Prime Minister, at the first inter-ministerial conference on disability on 21 September 2017, committed himself to ensuring that disability is taken into account in all bills submitted by your Government. On the contrary, I note that it has often been forgotten, and that in the absence of quality care, too many people remain, because of their disability, in a precarious health situation. Finally, of course, I am thinking of caring for the dependent elderly, to whom you have planned to devote a bill before the end of this year. We do not forget this commitment. Because we are, more than anything else, committed to our health care system and its sustainability, because this system is in danger today, and because your bill will probably remain the only opportunity we will be given in the quinquennium to remedy it, we will adopt a constructive attitude in this discussion, as we did in committee. We will make many proposals to you, hoping that our discussions will help to remove the continuing blurring of your intentions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT and UDI-Agir groups]] Minister, the medical world and the users of the health system are watching us, and our fellow citizens expect a lot of us. We cannot be mistaken and we must meet their expectations. It is for this purpose that we will work with you this week, but as it stands, we cannot accept your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u125	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u126	We are here in the Chamber to consider the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system, which should enable it to respond to the challenges facing our society. What are they? We need a quality health supply for all French and in all territories, despite a shortage of professionals, as a result of the accounting management of health insurance for the past thirty years and a change in medical practice. Chronic diseases, which are constantly increasing, need to be combated because of the absence of a policy of prevention. It is necessary to adapt to the ageing of our population, a phenomenon resulting from this good news of increasing life expectancy. Medical practice must incorporate new technologies, which, well controlled, are an opportunity for our health. The moment is historic because the French, the actors on the ground and the politicians, who share the same observation, agree on the need for a profound change in our health system so that it remains one of the best performing in the world. Let me pay tribute to all the health professionals who work for our citizens every day. In the face of these challenges, what are your proposals? Better select health students, increase their number, provide better training to physicians and provide certification of their skills throughout their careers; ensuring a collective and coordinated exercise of health professionals, questioning payment by action and better taking responsibility for and financing professional communities and care pathways; labeling community hospitals, meeting places and bridges between liberal medicine and hospital medicine; Decentralize the public and private spheres and ensure a mix of exercise; continue the deployment of digital telemedicine tools, serving the human relationship between caregivers and patients; Finally, using health data to strengthen epidemiology, improve prevention, diagnosis and research and, soon, develop predictive medicine. We fully agree with these proposals, Minister. But in order for this beautiful mechanism to get started – bill, treaty negotiations, regulations and new ways of paying – we absolutely need the support and participation of all the front-line actors, health professionals. In addition, it is necessary to leave the administrative logic in the name of which everything is decided from above and to abandon a functioning centered on the hospital. The examination of your draft in the Committee on Social Affairs has led to the lifting, in part, of certain reservations expressed by our group. We thank you for listening to our concerns and we commend the constructive work of the Government and the Commission in enriching the text. First of all, our concerns relate to the authorizations to legislate by ordinances: you have provided the necessary and expected clarifications by committing to involving parliamentarians in the drafting of the ordinances. We believe, like you, that Parliament is the place, located at an equal distance from the administration, the actors and the citizens, where debate can and must take place, and where deliberation must take place in full transparency. On the other articles of the text, we will make proposals to you during this week. Thus, we will suggest a more appropriate name for the territorial health professional communities, which should be the centrepiece of the liberal exercise. We also wanted to put forward a solution, that of the reception points for immediate care, to solve the problem of congestion in emergencies; Unfortunately, the service of the meeting has just informed me that it was inadmissible. We will also present measures to cut the umbilical cord between local hospitals and local hospital groups. Indeed, the autonomy of community hospitals must be guaranteed so that they can ensure the articulation between liberal and hospital medicine. They must therefore maintain "strong local governance in order to [recognize] their full role", as the President of the Republic called for on 18 September, when presenting the plan "my health 2022". We will also support measures aimed at proposing a more appropriate way of governance of health data management, so that France will be at the rendezvous of tomorrow's medicine and will not be distanced by the two global giants. This is a fundamental issue. Finally, we will make proposals to strengthen local democracy, which will require better representation of elected officials, health professionals and patient associations, in order to counterbalance the powers of regional health agencies – which sometimes include twelve or even fourteen departments – and to reaffirm loud and clear, as reported by the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs, that local initiatives must be based on the membership and volunteerism of health professionals. As the risk of administrative leadership is high, we are still concerned that directives will be issued by central administrations, from the headquarters of very large regions, without consultation with the actors in the field. However, the great national debate has revealed a few demands: the French aspire to be both actors in their health as well as users of the healthcare system; Moreover, every day, mayors and departmental and regional councillors are questioned by our fellow citizens, who want better access to health. We therefore hope that the proposals we make in this direction will be heard in the Chamber. Finally, allow me to express my regret at the lack of proposals to take better account of the different preventive medicines – maternal and child protection, school medicine and occupational medicine – and to unblock them and organise them more effectively. You have told us your vision that prevention should be everyone's business. However, if this bill is undeniably aimed at better fluidizing city medicine and hospital medicine, it could also have proposed a new reconciliation between Hygée and Panacea, between prevention and care. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In conclusion, in the Chamber, and as we have done in committee, the MODEM and related groups will continue to invest in the issue of health democracy, because we are convinced that the health of tomorrow, even if it will have new technological means, will require ever more humanity and proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u127	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u128	"There is something rotten in the Kingdom of Denmark": in the tragic story of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, Shakespeare lends his pen to Marcellus to describe the betrayal and widespread corruption that is raging, despite the appearances of order and grandeur of the kingdom. Madam Minister, I fear that there will also be some deception in the Kingdom of Macron, for example, when the Government claims to remove the numerus clausus, while in reality it creates a new selection – understand the restriction – of the number of doctors trained. In fact, you do not accept this deletion of the numerus clausus, since in committee you said that there would not necessarily be an increase in the number of doctors trained. There are many deceptions in Macron's kingdom, I believe. Indeed, this bill of health, presented as a reform without precedent, does not bring any new rights, no new protection to the French. It is limited to reducing the skills of community hospitals. Hospitals that will only keep the name, so much as you limit their activity: no surgery, no obstetric care, your community hospitals are just vulgar dispensaries. I'm sorry to tell you that, minister, but you have to call a cat a cat. Undoubtedly, there are many deceptions in the kingdom of Macron, when a text of twenty-three articles in truth contains seven authorizations to make ordinances! Is it worth recalling that the orders are beyond the control of Parliament, and therefore of the citizens? Should we recall that they take up the principle of the exclusive legislative authority of the kings of France? After reforming the Labour Code and, recently, juvenile justice without parliamentary debate, the Government is about to amend the Public Health Code without going through Parliament. Everyone here is aware that there is an urgent need to act on health issues. We would have understood, therefore, that, for the sake of speed, you were asking Parliament to carry out a rapid review of the orders. In fact, this is not the case: you give yourself twenty-one months to publish them and have them ratified! There's an emergency, are you saying? Balivernes! There are many deceptions in Macron's kingdom. I think so deeply. The preparation of this health bill was entrusted to four doctors, without the question of possible conflicts of interest being raised. Perhaps – as we do in respectable democracies, where ethics is not just a word that we post to make pretty – would it have been wiser for some here to withdraw or not take part in the vote? [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] We live in turbulent times, in which politicians and women are constantly vilipenced on ethical issues. For the sake of clarity, I deeply believe that we must set an example here. It would therefore be wise if our colleagues in the medical profession did not take part in the vote on the text – or at least in the vote on the articles dealing directly with their profession. You had to say it, it's done! Everyone, consciously, will be free of his or her choice. Do not imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an annex. This is democracy itself. Did you know, for example, that 65.9% of the amendments adopted in committee are the first signatory of doctors' deputies?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u129	Some of them sit on your benches!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u130	Undoubtedly, there are many deceptions in the kingdom of Macron. I would like it to be different, but I am saddened by the fact that all the political groups in this House are opposed to the marketing and commodification of the health data of our fellow citizens, that the majority group has rejected our amendments aimed at protecting personal data in this area. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, open your eyes! What you're doing today, you'll regret it tomorrow. You blindly obey ultraliberal voting instructions, which will lead us to the brink of the abyss. Personal health information is very valuable. Above all, they can become very dangerous if they come into the wrong hands. There are many deceptions in Macron's kingdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u131	Who is the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u132	It's now a dark habit. We can only, disillusioned, see you reject the amendments defended by the opposition. On four occasions, in committee, you rejected our amendments, even though they were similar to yours, which you then adopted without suffering any case of conscience. Who's fooling around with this contemptuous behavior? Your voters? Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your attitude is erupting in the eyes of all. Unscrupulously, you vote in unison – and cynically – texts that will divide the country and deepen the territorial and social divide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u133	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u134	Of course, you can always cover your face and take refuge in denial; But your decisions are binding on you. The crisis of the yellow vests probably finds its origins in the last thirty years, as you like to repeat it to better scroll you; Today, she's yours. It's your crisis, and you don't do anything to get out of it. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several GDR benches]] Yes, there are many deceptions in Macron's kingdom! I fear that if we fail to reach a cathedral text, we end up with a sand castle text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u135	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u136	In recent years, a sense of deterioration in our health care system has developed in the collective spirit. This system is now ill. Sick of his dysfunctions, sick of his wanderings, sick of his immobilism, sick of having not been able to transform when needed. We want to express the suffering of some practitioners, who no longer have the means to treat our patients with dignity, and of patients who fail to find a doctor close to their home. The shortage of doctors in the liberal sector and their unequal distribution in the territory are the result of past mistakes and a policy of management of short-sighted medical demography. This medical breakdown also has disastrous consequences for the hospital sector, which is affected by the shortage. The most visible part of these difficulties is the issue of emergency services, which are increasingly being engorged, particularly in under-funded areas of city medicine. Many aspire to real changes in practice and a profound reform of our health care system. This is the ambition of the "My Health 2022" plan presented to us by the President of the Republic last September. We kindly welcomed his announcements. The momentum given was the right one; the legislative translation leaves us partially on our hunger. Indeed, the bill that you are introducing today, Minister, has, to our great regret, many powers to legislate by order. As you know, as parliamentarians, we hardly appreciate these kinds of practices that make it possible to stalemate the parliamentary debate. However, your presence in the Committee on Social Affairs last week shed some light on the objectives pursued and on the method. You committed yourself to amending the text in the light of the progress made in the discussions, and we were able to see that when the committee incorporated, by adopting an amendment from the Government, the creation of a regional health agency in Mayotte. Our group appreciated your presence and availability. You are also committed to involving parliamentarians in the drafting of orders. Even though I know your intellectual honesty, I would point out that we will be extremely vigilant to ensure that this is the case. Through this bill, you are tackling the reform of health studies. We share your objectives since there can be no reform of the health system without a reform of training. The competition, in its present form, is a real human waste and values only students able to memorize and restore knowledge. The abolition of the first year common to health studies – PACES – will have to make it possible to recruit, on their academic excellence, students with more diverse profiles. If we also approve of the deletion of the numerus clausus, we would like to draw your attention again to the difficulties that universities may encounter when it comes to correctly integrating an increasing number of students. Of course, the master classes can be followed by video conferencing, but the rooms of practical work and directed work are not extensible. We fear the saturation of reception capacity which could weaken the quality of training. There is also a problem with the available traineeships. The increase in the number of students must go hand in hand with the increase in internship opportunities. Regrettably, many doctors give up on interns for lack of time and resources to devote to them. This is particularly the case for doctors practising in a liberal practice. As you know, there is a real problem of attractiveness for liberal medicine in France. According to the College of Physicians, five years after graduation, only 25% of physicians choose Liberal practice. However, the professional projects of the students mature through the internships. It is therefore essential to develop internship grounds in city medicine, in order to improve students' appetite for this specialty. The increase in available internships will also require a relaxation of the status of traineeship master, which, because of the many constraints it imposes, discourages some practitioners, as has often been repeated to me during the hearings I have conducted. With regard to the reform of the second cycle, it is also necessary to move towards a more professional training cycle, focusing more on practice, and exiting from the "all CHU", in order to get students to work in the hospital centres located on the outskirts. Finally, the training component also includes a collaborative issue for health students. To improve the shared exercise of medicine among these future health professionals, they need to be trained together. Coordination should be included in the DNA of the initial training. This requires the development of mutualized teachings. The bill also aims to open up practices and encourage shared exercise; This is an objective that our group supports. Although, paradoxically, France has never had so many doctors active, in terms of medical demography, the most critical period is expected between 2021 and 2025. The removal of the numerus clausus will not produce any effects for a decade or so. Until then, therefore, patients must be provided with a quick and effective management solution, which will necessarily involve sharing tasks among professionals. These professionals are ready for this sharing, as many have told us. We therefore support the rapporteur's proposals, in particular that the pharmacist should be allowed to dispense certain medicinal products intended to treat minor diseases under conditions. More generally, any device that frees up medical time devoted to "bobology" for the treatment of more serious conditions will be welcomed by our group. Decompartmentalization will also require fluidity of quarries between the city and the hospital, as well as mixed exercise. However, the latter will have to enjoy an equivalence of the statutes in order to make it truly attractive. The shared exercise of medicine will also take place within the territorial professional health communities that you wish to develop, Minister. If we share this objective, however, we would like to draw your attention to the need not to rigidize or over-administer these structures. In fact, the formalism of their management must not interfere with the medical time needed by professionals. The Regional Health Agency must remain present in the construction process, while giving actors some flexibility to organise themselves. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the need to move on to the second stage of the reform of the SRA. Many criticisms have been expressed about their functioning since they too often remain technical-financial structures, where the Director-General concentrates all the powers, without any real tool of democracy around him. It is therefore necessary to re-create a partnership between the RHAs and the health actors of the territory so that these structures can truly adopt a regional approach to health issues. The regional intervention fund is not enough to bridge the disparities between the territories, and we will eventually have to move towards the creation of regional health insurance expenditure targets – ORDAM – dear to our colleague Francis Vercamer. We see this very well at the level of the Hauts-de-France region, and more particularly at the level of the départements of Nord and Pas-de-Calais, where health indicators continue to deteriorate, and where life expectancy remains lower than in the rest of the country, even though the ARS tells us that everything is fine! You witnessed this at our last meeting in Lille, Madam Minister. Your reform also provides for a gradation of hospital care, with the development of community hospitals. We hope that this reform, as it stands, will help to maintain proximity where it is needed, and to strengthen more technical care to improve its quality and efficiency. Moreover, if the medical act remains primarily a human relationship, our health care system must not miss the digital shift, as you propose. According to an Opinion way poll, seven in ten French people are waiting for more information about their health. The digital health space can become a real tool to improve its dissemination to health professionals and the patient. The shared medical record is an ideal lever if it does not remain an empty shell. The stake is its filling by patients and professionals. This digital space must also be able to send reminders to the patient, particularly with regard to vaccination. Few French people are really aware of the vaccination schedule. Paradoxically, today you receive alerts on your mobile phone informing you of the vaccination schedule of your pet, but nothing about your own health. This should be addressed by the DMP. The digital health area is also intended to become a vehicle for effective information in the event of a health alert on a health product. Indeed, if there is an effective device to recall the product, there is no device to allow the patient to recall the product. Since the Mediator scandal, France has not made much progress in terms of communication and information dissemination tools. The recent Levothyrox crisis has shown that the patient's recall is unfortunately done through the media, with all the information errors it may involve. The digital space must therefore become a tool capable of improving patient recall actions. Finally, the digital part of your bill deals with e-prescription. Unfortunately, France has fallen far behind in this regard. Its development will prevent the issuance of false ordinances, through which some organize a juicy traffic, such as that of the Subutex, of which our country has become the first drug dealer. I would also like to refer to the situation of practitioners with diplomas outside the European Union – PADHUE. Article 21 of your draft law establishes an ad hoc and temporary mechanism to deal with situations of PADHUE in health facilities. However, this does not make it possible to regularise the situation of all the persons concerned. Indeed, your text values those who have practiced medicine by bypassing the system, in hospitals adopting a flexible reading of the regulations. What about those who couldn't? It is very difficult to explain to the French that we lack doctors, but those who have graduated abroad cannot work. I shall therefore propose, in the course of our discussions, an amendment aimed at improving their integration. Our group has looked very seriously at the plan to reform the health system, which many of our fellow citizens are waiting for. We have conducted a wide range of hearings with a wide range of stakeholders involved in these issues, and hope that some of our proposals will receive a favourable opinion from the majority. Madam Minister, we understand that your text is mostly structural. It aims to reorganize the health system for the benefit of the patient. However, if it deals with patient care, we regret that reference is made to the tools of management, such as medication or even prevention, two topics on which there is still a long way to go. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] At all costs, we want to avoid the development of a two-speed France, a France broken between those who have the means to care for themselves and those who do not. Through this text, we want each patient to have access to the best care as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u137	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u138	The Overseas Delegation entrusted our colleague Ramlati Ali and myself, on the occasion of the consideration of this bill, with a mission-flash on health in the overseas. Two points were unanimous: the disappointment that the health situation of the overseas countries – despite their well-documented characteristics – did not give rise to any appropriate measures in the text – with the exception of the creation of a regional health agency in Mayotte, which thus joins the common law; and the confirmation that the logic of differentiation must indeed apply in the field of public health overseas, as situations vary from one territory to another – this need is undoubtedly even more evident in the provision of care, which is at the heart of the bill. Thus, general medicine presents a very disparate picture: Reunion has a density equivalent to that of Hexagon, that of the West Indies is 20% lower, and that of Guyana is almost half; As for Mayotte, the number of generalists does not exceed twenty. Specialists, while the deficit is widespread, vary considerably in intensity. Another example is provided by the number of hospital beds: the situation of Martinique and Guadeloupe – before the fire of the CHU – is close to that of mainland France, with 569 beds per 100,000 inhabitants, while Réunion and Guyana have far less than 400 beds per 100,000 inhabitants. At this ratio, we'll take an outpatient turn. This inequality will be countered by the occupancy rate of the beds. Yet this is one of the times when realities must take precedence over abstract norms, where the great insecurity, topographies, heavy diseases, early addictions and also this worrying premature overmortality – in Réunion, for example, it is 23% higher – must determine criteria and policies. Psychiatry also requires differentiated policies. The Overseas countries do not escape the serious difficulties which our colleague Martine Wonner has illuminatingly presented in a recent report. But these are exacerbated, and especially in the Indian Ocean, which is one of the historically underserved regions. Mayotte has 10 beds in psychiatry and a budget of 450,000 euros. As for La Réunion, there is a shortage of around 600 euros per patient, or a total of 15 million euros per year. The accumulation of delays and resulting deficits makes it essential to accelerate the catch-up that began in 2018. But seven years is a long time, Madam Minister, for a refresher. Health actors are convinced that differentiation in public health will yield more positive results, particularly with regard to prevention. It is essential to combat infectious diseases but also chronic diseases, first and foremost diabetes, the excess mortality that surrounds birth, risky behaviour and epidemics; prevention is the poor parent, the very poor parent, of medicine in the overseas. We have noted the measures of the "prevention priority" plan, but we are leaving so far, with 3 euros per capita, and many of our indicators are still so degraded, that we will have to put the double bites in order to really include the overseas in this "revolution of prevention" which the President of the Republic calls for. It is impossible not to deal here with the financial situation of ultramarine health facilities, including university hospitals, since they are now systematically associated with massive deficits. But not only do our CHUs not have this monopoly, since half of the CHUs in France are concerned, to the point that the Court of Auditors speaks of the CHU's "chronic deficit", but these figures cover very different situations. I would like to recall here that the deficit in Réunion's CHU was 21 million in 2017, and that the cash aid to eliminate it will range from 7.5 million to 4.5 million by 2020. Similarly, the overall investment plan of one billion that all governments like to put forward is very different across the territories. The uniform and globalizing look is a source of incomprehension, and many health actors in Réunion do not understand the rigorous return-to-balance plans – the PREs – that are imposed on them, along with removals of posts and beds. There was unanimous support for the fact that the geographical coefficient created to compensate for the additional costs in setting up activity pricing, the T2A, was no longer adapted to the reality of local costs and contributed to the deficit. The Aubert report calls for a revision of this coefficient "recently on the additional costs objectivable [...] and extended to the few revenue currently not covered". For La Réunion, which has only seen an increase of one point in twelve years, this upgrading appears to be an indispensable prerequisite for any other measure. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups. – Mrs Ramlati Ali and Mrs Justine Benin also applaud]] In conclusion, I would like to stress once again the strong expectation of our compatriots in terms of health. At La Réunion, too, your decisions are being followed very closely, Minister. And, in the immediate future, we are counting on you to prevent the unprecedented and dramatic scenario of a dengue epidemic that would last for two warm seasons. The last level of alert of the Orsec plan was triggered last July – without results.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u139	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u140	Access to care is a major concern of French and French people, and it is also a priority of our majority. In this regard, I would like to commend the work of our colleagues Stéphanie Rist and Thomas Mesnier for several months, who have usefully fed the text that we are going to examine. We are committed to our French system, which combines hospital medicine and liberal medicine. Yet, this model is running out of steam. As you said, Minister, our health care system has strengths, but in recent decades it has been considerably weakened. Our society has changed: today we have to deal with the ageing of the population and the explosion of chronic diseases. This creates tensions, especially in terms of access to care: patients without a attending physician, excessive waiting times for access to certain specialists, and I pass by. But no fatalism! There is nothing inevitable here: the limits of our system are not the result of a problem of underfunding, but rather of organizational shortcomings. Indeed, our system is compartmentalized, even unbalanced, with on the one hand too many city professionals who practice in isolation, and on the other hand city and hospital professionals who do not communicate and who do not work together, or not sufficiently. Our health care system is out of breath and needs to be rethought: this, I believe, is an observation that we share, regardless of our political colour. The hearings we have conducted over the past few weeks bear witness to this. This bill embodies the ambition of the President of the Republic: reform to put the patient at the heart of our health care system. I will focus on digital technology, which is one of the major areas of our health system transformation project. Because nothing will be possible if we do not at last take into account all the good that the deployment of digital tools can bring. I am thinking in particular of our health data heritage. It is imperative that we finally put it at the service of our research, our practitioners, our citizens, our start-ups, in order to better prevent and predict diseases. A tremendous potential is now within our reach. Let's be sure, the brakes are not technical. The stakeholders we have consulted, whom we have heard, all tell us the need for a one-stop shop that can ensure simplified, effective, accelerated and secure access to data. It is the objective of creating the "Health data hub" that will facilitate data sharing by linking producers and users, both public and private: at the key, the creation of a "4P" medicine, i.e. preventive, predictive, personalized, shared. The stakes lie in the excellence of our care system, its independence from foreign interests and France's competitiveness in an economic field that is known to be critical. Innovation for health is looking at digital as an opportunity and a chance to transform. The digital revolution must also provide new services to users so that they have their health data and the information they need to be involved in their health. I want to talk about the digital health space: every citizen will have online access, as of January 1, 2022, to his shared medical file and his e-vaccination book, but also to all the health applications he uses on his phone. I cannot conclude my remarks without referring to e-prescription, the aim of which is to improve the quality of prescriptions by reducing, in particular, drug incompatibilities. We will also discuss the strengthening of telemedicine as well as telecare for paramedical professionals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The transformation of the health system is a strong commitment of the President of the Republic. It responds to an important expectation from our fellow citizens. In this regard, I am pleased, on behalf of the Republic on the move, that we can move forward on the thorny issue of equal access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u141	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u142	I have been very attentive to the text that was submitted to us in the Committee on Social Affairs. After studying it, I wanted, at your first hearing in committee for which I had gone back and forth from La Réunion, to tell you, Madam Minister, that I am wondering about the relevance of this text to the ultramarine departments. In a minute – speaking time granted to me – it was a challenge! Your bill wants to solve the problem of medical deserts; For this purpose you propose a new health organization combining high-level technical trays, a hospital-city opening and the consolidation of projects of territorial professional health communities. All in all, you want a permeability of practices and territories in an organized continental set and in interconnection between departments and regions. But does this model you are planning for Hexagon have a chance of being efficient in island and remote areas of the continent, and whose levels of structuring the provision of care are very heterogeneous? First of all, you want this new organization to be built around a high-level technical platform. However, there are none in all the overseas departments. How do we do it? When they exist, they remain fragile. Thus, Mrs Bello said, in La Réunion, the CHU will not be able to cope with the full coverage of the additional costs associated with insularity if the geographical coefficient does not increase – I would remind you that the last increase, by one point, dates back to ten years. Very concretely, an example of additional cost: the cubic metre of oxygen costs today a CHU of Hexagon about 50 centimes; at La Réunion, it costs 3.16 euros. You then want to develop the projects of territorial professional health communities. First of all, I note that, in the impact assessment, the breakdown table for projects does not identify overseas. Then, to make a community, it takes professionals, and if for some disciplines in some territories we get close to the national average, for others, we are far from it. Thus, the total density of doctors in Hexagon is 340 per 100,000 inhabitants; It is 221 in Guyana, 225 in Guadeloupe, 81 in Mayotte. For pharmacists, the density is about 113 per 100,000 inhabitants in Hexagon, and on average 81 for overseas departments. For medico-social, we are all below national averages and, for some, in a considerable way. Thirdly, you define a new strategy for isolated territories, which have not caught up with the national average in terms of infrastructure, but in which, moreover, the frequency of certain diseases exceeds the national average, in a tense socio-economic context. Life expectancy is below the national average for all our territories. For some, this gap is narrowed: it is proof that, for some territories, the catch-up made over the past forty years has been effective. But be careful, Madam Minister: do not break these dynamics, which remain very fragile! For certain diseases, as you know, prevalence rates are particularly high in overseas countries, as the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights stressed in its opinion adopted on 17 October 2017. This is true of maternal and perinatal mortality: from 9.2 in the Grand Est region, it rises to 19.1 in Guyana, to 18.6 in Martinique, or to 13.7 in Réunion. Infant mortality is 3.7 on average in France when it is 7.6 for overseas departments and territories outside Mayotte. It's way too much! With regard to diabetes, its prevalence rate is 10.2 per cent in Réunion and 8.9 per cent in Guadeloupe, while it is less than 5 per cent at the national level. The proportions are the same, each time, whether they are strokes, cancers, chronic diseases... It's urgent to act! Our territories are different from each other, but they have one thing in common: their isolation from hexagonal France. So there is no possibility for our patients to have a territorial mesh – unless they fly. What to do when our technical trays are not up to, when the number of our professionals is very low? We are not armed to create complete CPTS: often the medical supply is not complete, and when it is, the densities are far below national averages – even though most of our territories have far more inhabitants per square kilometre than Hexagon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u143	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u144	Therefore, the conditions do not seem to me to be met to create CPTS. Coordinating infrastructure-poor territories does not make them richer. [[Applause on the SOC, Fi and GDR benches. – Mrs Justine Benin also applauds]] Under these circumstances, the ultramarine Members have decided to jointly table amendments to open the debate with you, without much hope for their fate, but with the determination to make oceanic France heard during the examination of this continental reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u145	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u146	"Hello, we have information to share with you. Your health has deteriorated. Your lung doesn't work anymore. You're about to die. On March 4, this icy message was sent to 79-year-old Ernest Quintana, a Californian on the eve of his death. It's a robot with a video screen that entered his room at the hospital to tell him the sad news. That, Madam Minister, is where the total dehumanization of medicine can lead us. What some dare to call "progress," I call it "hell" and "regression." Now, while the two priorities of French medicine should be proximity and humanity, you decide, on the American model, to carry out the reverse movement by massively deploying telemedicine and telecare. It's not about looking in the mirror, far from it, but a computer, robot or machine can never replace the real relationship with a healthcare professional. Talking, listening, feeling, palpering, ausculting: these acts repeated for centuries retain all their modernity and necessity. This bill reflects a technocratic and industrial vision of medicine. The only thing you will organize with this text, minister, is the planned death of an already agonizing health care system. In twenty years, ninety-five emergency services have been closed. At a time when we are discussing, in many rural departments, community health is placed in palliative care by regional health agencies eager for profitability and mutualization. In 20 years, half of the maternity wards have been abolished and the number of obstetric beds has been almost halved, while the birth rate has not decreased. In the countryside, future mothers fear the big day and the possible complications of a delivery in an ambulance or fire truck.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u147	Isn't that a bit of a cartoon?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u148	Your community hospitals are doomed to failure. Without resources, without plans, without the necessary staff, they will be reduced to impotence. The illusion of proximity will mask in our regions the degradation of medicine. In practice, it will be necessary to travel ever more kilometres in order to be operated in an emergency, with always less chance of survival. You tell us that the removal of the numerus clausus will put an end to medical desertification. With this measure, which will not take effect until 2032, when the 2020 promotion has completed its medical studies, you are wrong and miss out on the solution. Although the number of doctors is indeed insufficient for the French population, the real problem is the unequal distribution of practitioners throughout the national territory. If all future doctors settle in Saint-Tropez rather than in the mining basin, the removal of the numerus clausus will have no benefit. However, you refuse to force doctors to practice in fragile territories for a few years or to devote the necessary resources to encourage facilities. If the remuneration of healthcare professionals were doubled in the medical deserts, the problem would already be solved! The removal of the numerus clausus also raises the question of training, with the risk of having a medicine at the discount. If a selection is required in the first year to ensure the quality of the students and to assess their skills base, it must be guided not only by competition but also by the need for humanity and empathy. Another inept measure is the creation of positions of medical assistants confined to administrative tasks and simple actions, to optimize performance. For you, health is a matter of numbers, of number of acts and not of quality of care. With your goal of freeing up medical time, we will not cure better; We'll take care of the chain. This bill is ultimately anything but a surprise. Despite the appeals for help made during the great national debate, you still hear nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u149	Mrs Delphine Bagarry, the last speaker on the list, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u150	Engaged and anchored in a rural territory, a professional field doctor, I am delighted to be able to debate a text that carries a great ambition for French women and French: to improve our health system. This improvement begins with medical studies, with the abolition of the numerus clausus, which will allow universities to receive 20% more students in the second cycle, and that of the PACES and the national classing tests, in favour of a new approach: in addition to his medical knowledge, the student's experience and his professional project will now be taken into consideration. The bill thus incorporates the proposals of Professor Jean-Paul Saint-André and responds to the wishes expressed by young doctors, students and deans of our universities. It is not only a question of training more practitioners, but also of ensuring that medical students thrive during their long studies and do not choose their specialty by default. It should be stressed that the bill will make it possible to diversify the recruitment of health professionals. Thus, studies in medicine, pharmacy, odontology or maieutics will no longer be reserved for scientists alone. Students in the humanities and social sciences will also be able to access these professions that require a sense of listening, empathy and ethical reflection. This text is therefore forward-looking: the diversification of student recruitment, a source of wealth, is a means of answering philosophical and ethical questions that health professionals will not fail to ask themselves in the face of scientific and technological progress and the ageing of the population. The bill is also characterized by lucidity in the face of declining medical demography. This crucial issue in terms of access to care will not be solved by the removal of the numerus clausus alone. To answer this question, the concept of interprofessionality has been placed at the heart of Titles I, II and III. The aim is to encourage the sharing of work among health care professionals in the early years of their studies, to develop a better territorial organization and to build on the new tools offered by digital technology. Cooperation is not only an asset, but also a need, an obvious one, which the legislator must seize. In this regard, the Act of 26 January 2016 on the modernization of our health care system has been fair in providing for the possibility of creating territorial professional health communities. Article 7 aims to consolidate these CPTS. It will be up to health professionals and medical and social professionals to define territorial health projects with elected officials and users, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which entrusts the task of organising territorial care at the most competent, most relevant level – the basin of life. It is on this scale that the territory feels lived and shared. Together with the community hospital, the territorial health project will be the cornerstone of the organization of care, including first resort care. In the face of a rare offer of care, French and French people are in fact calling for the competence, or the rise of each person's skills. In this respect, the committee's consideration has enabled me to adopt an amendment which is dear to me: it tends to give the pharmacist, according to a specific protocol and in a coordinated manner, the possibility of delivering medicines with compulsory medical prescriptions. This measure, which has been mentioned many times since October in all our health debates, would apply from 1 January 2020. Engaging the knowledge of all caregivers would simplify the lives of patients and promote safe access to care for all. Finally, the bill relies on the digital tools available to make the health system more effective, whether it is researching or using health data by and for users. The "health data hub" must open up, even better than we do today, health data to improve research in this area. As for the digital health space, it will be a personal tool for each individual to become an actor in his or her care path. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This bill, ladies and gentlemen, carries with it confidence in the future, confidence in the territories, confidence in all health care professionals and users. It is a text of progress that it is up to us to bring to fruition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u151	The general discussion is closed. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u152	Many speakers stressed the quality of the work done in the committee; I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, who has enabled us, through joint reflection and the adoption of many amendments from all quarters of the House, to draw up the content of this bill calmly. I would also like to take this opportunity to respond to the comments made to me. Mr. Ramadier, you said that the bill simply adapted the system, without trying to transform it. This is not true: the transformation is real. This text, I would like to point out, is only one element of the vast reform of our health system, but it is already sufficient to transform it in depth, thanks to the provisions relating to community hospitals, to those which fundamentally modify the first and second cycles of medical studies, to the re-certification of health professionals, not to mention the conventional negotiations with doctors around the CPTS. In addition, this project is making a real shift towards the use of digital health. If we had already started by introducing telemedicine into the PLFSS, we are going much further today with the telehealth and the digital health space. It is therefore a text with great changes, probably the most innovative in the last twenty years. Mrs Fiat, you have identified fourteen political needs to be met. Know that the status quo is not a bet. This bill is intended to guide us towards a much more effective, efficient health care system for the benefit of our citizens. Not adopting it would be satisfied with the status quo. As far as the means are concerned, I want to go back to the many misconceptions that Mr Dharréville and you were able to echo. It is wrong to say that there is a reduction in resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u153	I spoke of a "compression" of means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u154	This year is the first year in which we significantly increase the resources for the hospital. We increase tariffs, we completely remove the freeze decided in 2018, and we even add 300 million euros. These are the guarantees of a real transformation. You also mention the problem of the medico-social sector. As you know, after consultation with French citizens and the meeting of many working groups on age and autonomy, we have made commitments. They will lead to a bill that takes into account the problems of EHPADs, their residents and professionals working there. Again, you are bringing us a trial that I find somewhat outrageous in view of the energy we spend to make all sectors of health fit to meet the needs of our fellow citizens. Mr Dharréville, you mentioned the "compression" and "commodification" of health. I repeat, this is not a compression because, this year more than ever, the means are constantly increasing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u155	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u156	Nor is there any commodification, far from it. You called for vigorous protection of the health data of the French. We share that wish. All the amendments adopted in committee or which should be adopted in committee are intended precisely to improve the control of health data and to prohibit the sale of such data to anyone. We therefore fully share this ambition to ensure that the health data of our citizens are as secure as possible. Mrs Dubie, you mentioned a concentration of means leading to closures of maternity and emergency services. It is not my fault that today we lack human resources; It is not a mistake if, for thirty years, the numerus clausus did not make it possible to anticipate health needs; It is not my fault that the services are not in a position to function. As you are well aware, the question is not limited to the financial means, even if their restructuring in the territory is essentially made necessary by the lack of human resources allowing the use of all the expertise and skills in the vicinity. That is why I advocate a reorganization and a better gradation of care. You have returned, Mr. Isaac-Sibille, on our choice to use the ordinances and on the wish of the parliamentarians to be involved in their drafting. I am once again committed, as in committee, to involving you in the drafting and review of orders in the Committee on Social Affairs, before they are tabled. I have also made a commitment that they will be the subject of an impact assessment so that parliamentarians, before deciding, will have full knowledge of the data. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and on many benches of the UDI-Agir group]] [[Same movements]] I must admit, Mr Aviragnet, that I was quite surprised at the tone of your speech – indeed she is astonished at most others. I understand that we have reservations on many points, but I also hear, here and there, the satisfaction of a particular Member with a particular amendment. You mentioned the "kingdom of Macron", I remind you that this is the President of the Republic. You see a certain contempt on our part; This is the tone of your intervention which, for the moment, was very contemptuous. I have known a socialist group which is a force for proposals, which has not been the case here and I think I regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u157	It's the strength of caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u158	Without you, there would be no yellow vests!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u159	Mr Christophe, you said that we should be vigilant about the commitment I made to you to involve parliamentarians in the reform. I believe I have given many assurances during the committee work that I was hearing your request to be involved in both territorial projects, GHT governance and RHA governance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u160	Mr. Christophe's acquiesce, I'm watching it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u161	Again, I am undertaking, Mr. Christophe, that you will be consulted extensively when the orders are presented to the commissions. You then referred to many of the topics in the text, such as the obligation to improve the delegation of tasks in the face of medical desertification, which I will call incompressible for the next few years because of the time it will take to train doctors. You also went back to the need not to stiffen the CPTS. We discussed it in committee. We will defend an amendment that reassures parliamentarians that initiatives must come from the ground and that it is the will of the professionals to organize themselves that will be privileged. As for the reform of the SRAs, know that if it is not provided for in the bill, I regularly propose – I meet their representatives every month – to change their management and how they organize territorial delegations, so that they get as close as possible to the elected ones. You see the digital space in health as a tool to better reach citizens – indeed. Like you, I am sensitive to the fact that information is not available to them, particularly regarding medicines. This digital health space will certainly be an indispensable means of keeping as close as possible to the needs of our citizens and of providing them with the necessary information. I would remind you that the aim of this reform is to reduce territorial divides, to respond to what you call two-speed medicine. You consider, Mrs Bello, that none of our measures are suitable for the overseas territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u162	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u163	In fact, many measures concerning overseas were already included in the emergency plan for access to care – I am thinking of the creation of 200 posts of specialist assistants dedicated to overseas which are now starting to settle there. I am also thinking of the report that I asked Jean-Marc Aubert to improve the pricing of establishments so that it takes account of the specific features of the marine environment. The report, Mrs Bareigts, referred to it, was given to me. When considering your amendments, we will respond to your concern; However, the whole text is intended to accept differentiation, since there is clearly a specificity of the overseas territories. This specificity can be taken into account as organizations seek to adapt as closely as possible to the needs of the territories. I therefore understand your requests, but since we facilitate differentiation, we accept that each territory finds its own organisation, this is clearly the case also for the overseas territories. There has also been a lot of talk about prevention. It is financed mainly from the regional intervention fund and the IRF dedicated to prevention is, I believe, three times higher overseas than in the rest of the national territory. Your request is therefore already taken into consideration here as well. Mrs Gaillot, you remind us, like Mrs Bagary, that the reform meets the needs of the territories. We are sensitive to it. For you, too, Mrs Bareigts, the bill must incorporate ultramarine specificities. We'll have an opportunity to discuss it tomorrow. In particular, we must strengthen the training capacity of doctors from the overseas territories so that they can return. However, I would like to remind you that charging and delegation of tasks will be facilitated and can therefore be adapted. It is difficult to make a comprehensive response as each overseas territory has its own peculiarities. You mentioned a robot, Mr. Bilde. Telemedicine, however, is not a robot, as it is intended to bring professionals closer to citizens in difficulty. Take the example of EHPADs. We all equip them with telemedicine facilities so that the nurse on duty at night or the caregiver alone in the facility who is in difficulty can specifically reach a physician in emergency. So it's a way of bringing men closer together in remote territories and so it's the opposite of the caricature you've just set up. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I find that a pity because the whole purpose of the bill, as you understand it, is to respond to the difficulties of our fellow citizens in accessing a doctor, fluidizing and coordinating a health path where every health professional has a place, works in community with the neighbouring professional. It is also a matter of simplifying the path to the hospital with the graduation of care, whereby each health facility knows exactly what it has to do and what it is funded for. The text will improve the readability and structure of the health care system, a system that meets today's needs and adapts to those of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u164	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-18-O1183.u165	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system. The meeting is adjourned.
