ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committees on the draft organic law amending the status of autonomy of French Polynesia (No 1925) and the draft law on various institutional provisions in French Polynesia (No 1926). The Conference of Presidents decided that these texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u2	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, rapporteur of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u3	Here we come together to complete a fine work, carried out jointly with our fellow senators, but above all by Polynesian society itself. Over the past five years, the Commission has managed to stabilize politically, to recover financially and fiscally, and to return to the path of laudable economic development. There was a need for a profound renovation of the autonomy status adopted in 2004. It is a long-term work – I know, dear Maina Sage, the importance of your contribution – that has enabled us to share convictions and solutions with a view to reaching consensus. The Joint Joint Committees were a success. They have led to a common text. In fact, the Senate had done most of the work at the first reading of the text. He then had the delicacy and elegance of following us, with regard to our additions as well as the grooming of the text we have made and the contributions we have made. Thus, we are about to adopt the text voted on at first reading. On this occasion, I would like to refer to the history of our debates, in particular the examination of the famous article 1e r of the organic bill on the nuclear debt – now recognized and assumed – of the nation and the Republic vis-à-vis French Polynesia. I remember the words of our colleague Gosselin when Maina Sage wanted to promote in public a development that had not been anticipated initially. It was about knowing how to recognize the non-voluntary contribution of French Polynesia to what is now an integral part of our defence effort and the power of France. I remember that both of us agreed at a rather sensitive stage of the debate in order to change the course of the debate and to arrive at a definition that is more in line – very clearly – with the reality of the situation as well as with the aspirations of the Polynesians to take account of their history within the French nation. It's only a moment; the appropriation of this story by the French of Polynesia and metropolis – by the entire nation – will continue. But this moment is important. I remember that our vote was unanimous, which prompts me to believe that this moment will be extended. He is not the alpha and omega of the subject, but he serves very widely and French Polynesia and France. Both bills allow for a profound renewal of the status of French Polynesia. I do not forget that the ordinary bill provides for an important evolution of the intercommunal regime in French Polynesia. Nor do I forget that we are adding to it important provisions relating to land, inspired by the bill to facilitate the exit of the estate indivision and to relaunch the housing policy in the overseas countries and territories introduced by our colleague Letchimy. This final text will contribute to the development of French Polynesia, as well as to its appeasement and stabilization. I will conclude by thanking our colleagues, including Maina Sage, Nicole Sanquer and Moetai Brotherson. Our work of conviction and understanding has been carried out as part of a dynamic. The debate has sometimes been lively, which is normal. We also worked with the majority and oppositions in French Polynesia, obtaining strong contributions. The two texts that we are debating, and the shared conviction that they reflect, are the result. All this does not exhaust the debate, which will continue. Nevertheless, we are experiencing a strong moment. Finally, I will mention my Senate counterpart, Mathieu Darnaud, and his considerable work, as well as the senators from French Polynesia, Ms.Tetuanui and Mr.Laurey, who also contributed a great deal to our debates. [[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, please convey our thanks and congratulations to your colleague in charge of overseas. You will probably live, on other occasions, more complex mornings than this one! I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u4	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u5	We are debating for the final time the draft organic law amending the autonomy status of French Polynesia and the draft law on various institutional provisions in French Polynesia. After extensive and high-quality discussions, as well as genuine work on legislative co-construction, we have come up with texts that will enable French Polynesia to benefit from stable institutions and effective public policies. Whether these are significant advances in the area of intercommunality, the adaptation of the law with regard to the creation of local public companies or the local independent administrative authorities created by the country, the two texts meet strong local expectations. However, these major issues could not have made sense without the strong involvement of your assembly. For example, you have decided to accept the amendment to section 1 of the Organic Bill, proposed by MPs Maina Sage and Nicole Sanquer – whom I welcome – to replace the word "contribution" with the words "contribution", in relation to the role played by French Polynesia in the construction of our nuclear deterrent capacity. This semantic precision, adopted unanimously with the wisdom of the Government, constitutes a strong symbolic gesture, for our Polynesian compatriots as well as for your assembly, which thus demonstrates its ability to listen to the expectations of the French. In this regard, I would like to warmly welcome your rapporteur, an overseas specialist. I have no doubt, Mr rapporteur, dear Guillaume Vuilletet, that you will continue to remain one of their most fervent and ardent defenders. I also warmly welcome Maina Sage and Nicole Sanquer, who have been at the heart of the exchanges between the Overseas Ministry and the authorities of the Country, thus allowing to offer concrete and adapted answers in terms of, for example, land issues. Through you, ladies and gentlemen, I also greet the elected members of French Polynesia who have followed our work, including President Édouard Fritch. These texts are the result of the work carried out over the past two years. They attest that the majority, as well as the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, and the Government, are part of the continuity of the State in this matter and are fulfilling their commitments. I recall that these texts are the legislative counterpart of the Elysée Agreement, signed on 17 March 2017, emblematic of the renewal of relations between the state and French Polynesia. In this regard, I thank Ms.Pau-Langevin, who supported the two bills in this chamber. By recognizing the nuclear fact and its consequences, through Article 1 of the Organic Bill, the entire nation enshrines its duty of remembrance and recognition towards French Polynesia. Let me pay tribute to the political groups of this House, all of which contributed to its adoption, in particular Mr Brotherson, a member of the GDR Group, and to the members of the La France group, who were unsolicited. Such unanimity – as the rapporteur had just referred to it with malice – is rare enough to be underlined! Of course, compensation for the victims of nuclear tests will continue. The memory of the Polynesians will be sanctuarized, especially in the framework of the centre of memory and reflection around nuclear tests and their consequences, for the construction of which the State has ceded land free of charge. Drawing up the law together, on the basis of the needs expressed by the territories, is the sine qua non for making the overseas countries radiate, in line with the ambitions we have for them and the attention we give them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and GDR groups]] That is all at stake in the texts submitted for your approval this morning, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u6	Mrs Danièle Obono spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u7	The new wording of article 1 of the draft organic law amending the autonomy status of French Polynesia is an important step towards the recognition by our country of the damage caused to French Polynesia by the decision taken by the Government in the mid-1960s to use the territory as a nuclear testing site. We would have liked the terms used to be more explicit. However, we are pleased that the parliamentary debate has made this progress possible. French Polynesia was, to say the least, used by the nation for the development of tests that founded its nuclear deterrence. It is crucial to recall and recognize how the Polynesian population and territory have suffered the negative consequences of this undertaking. From 1966 to 1996, France conducted 193 nuclear tests in French Polynesia. Forty-six tests were conducted in the atmosphere, where each explosion produced wind-swept radioactive clouds, spraying the environment with radionuclides and directly exposing populations and fauna and flora to abnormal levels of radioactivity. According to a report by the Armaments Observatory – an independent organisation founded in 1984 to study the effects of nuclear tests conducted in French Polynesia – published in 2005, the radiation levels measured in foods that had not been washed four days after the Aldébaran explosion – the first nuclear test carried out in Polynesia – were 666 times higher than normal. Drinking water was six times more radioactive than normal. Many samples were subsequently studied. The consequences of the health tests are significant. The number of malformations at birth has increased fivefold in 25 years. Radio-induced diseases are of particular concern. In addition, the use of Polynesian territory as a nuclear testing site has had significant socio-economic consequences, shaking people's way of life in a very short period of time, which has had economic, social, cultural and environmental consequences. For years, the effect of nuclear testing has been hidden to the greatest number. Even today, information remains partially protected by defence secrecy. That is why it is important to recognize the responsibility of the French State in Polynesia. However, such recognition only makes sense if it establishes effective remedies. However, a number of problems remain. The measures to be implemented are incomplete, both at individual and collective level. The removal in February 2017 of the concept of negligible risk resulting from the law of 5 January 2010 on the recognition and compensation of victims of French nuclear tests, known as the Morin law, allowed the increase in the number of compensations in 2018. Thus, from 1 January to 22 October of this year, 146 people were the subject of an acceptance decision – compared to ninety-six applications that were the subject of a favourable opinion from January 2010 to December 2017. Recently, an amendment to the 2019 Finance Bill has reintroduced obstacles to compensation for victims whose litigation to challenge the decision of the Nuclear Test Victims Compensation Committee is under investigation. As a result, there is a risk of a downward revision of the compensation rates. Beyond the symbolic and important statements, such as those contained in the legislation we are debating, we must ensure that the obstacles restricting compensation for victims are removed. The repair process is in its early stages. It must be part of an expanded dialogue on the future of the territories concerned, which must be conducted with the population and local Polynesian authorities. This dialogue will have to embrace the socio-economic realities of poverty and inequality, and, above all, the challenges of preserving biodiversity and the environment, which have been so severely affected. For our part, we intend to contribute positively to the discussions on this subject, which will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u8	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u9	I will be brief, because everything has already been said in our debates, and my position is constant: I will oppose the organic law and abstain from the ordinary law. I'll explain it to myself. Does this groomed status improve the fate of the victims of nuclear tests? Ten out of twelve cases were rejected two days ago by the Papeete Administrative Court on the basis of an amendment to the Finance Act reintroducing, without saying its name, the notion of negligible risk. The answer to this first question is thus negative. Does recognition, even if amended, have any normative or legal significance? Here, it is the Council of State that responds clearly, and the answer is no. Will this groomed status make our Polynesian languages official? Of course not, because only changes in the constitutional level would allow it. Will he finally raise the exception that makes Polynesia one of the only, if not the only, communities in the Republic to see the ability to hire its executive supervised and registrated by Paris? No. Will this groomed status make it possible to better protect local employment in Polynesia? The answer is no again. Will he raise the ambiguity that gives Polynesia the competence of health, but forbids us to send our children to study medicine elsewhere than in France, and to use medicines that could help Polynesians, but do not have the chance to be approved in France? No. Will this groomed status make us competent to exploit, or decide not to exploit, the many minerals present at the bottom of the Polynesian oceans, which are on the list of strategic raw materials? Again, the answer is no. Will he improve the way justice is done in Polynesia? Last week, this status allowed, on the contrary, a mayor and representative at the Assembly of Polynesia to continue to sit, despite a conviction with a penalty of ineligibility. Does this groomed status finally respect our re-registration, on 17 May 2013, on the list of territories to be decolonized by the United Nations, as is the case for New Caledonia? No. These are the reasons why I will stick to the position that was mine during the debates: the opposition in Polynesia, rather than a thirteenth status grooming, since 2004, would have liked the opening of a constitutional window that would allow the framework of relations between France and French Polynesia to be redefined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u10	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u11	The final reading of these texts on Polynesia allows me to reaffirm, on behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group, our full support for the independence status of Polynesia, its small constitution, and for the people of this archipelago. These texts have been the subject of a consensus between the community of Polynesia, the Government and Parliament, which must be welcomed, although we have been sensitive to the words of our colleague Moetai Brotherson. I fully understand them, in my personal capacity. This autonomy must therefore be effective. The status of Polynesia is proof that, when a political will emerges, without taboo or dogmatism, a compromise and ways of appeasement can be found, so that a community can continue, emancipate, develop, be what it is in the Republic, which calls itself "one and indivisible", although the word "one" disappeared from the Constitution in 1946. Uniqueness is not uniformity, it is useful, once again, to remind it! The Polynesians must, in my view, remain attentive to the future of this commitment made several decades ago in order to realize and deepen this Polynesian autonomy and to take care of possible backwards. These two texts address a fundamental question which, I hope, suggests the possibility of a peaceful relationship between France and Polynesia through the recognition, at last, of nuclear debt. Now, everything remains to be done, and we must look to the grain for economic, social and environmental commitments to be translated into reality. The debates have been rich, each reading has made its improvements, especially at the last sitting in this House, or in the Joint Joint Committee. We look forward to it. In addition to the symbolic act of nuclear debt, in the other articles, the negotiation between the State and the communities seems to provide answers to the problems and burdens encountered during the fifteen years of practice of autonomy status in 2004. Indivision is a major problem in Polynesia. We know this question perfectly well in Corsica, and I join my Polynesian colleagues when they say that the exit from the division, by the titration of goods, is not enough. It is necessary to control this exit from the indivision, so that speculation and the forces of money do not take over and dispossess people, farmers and businesses for the benefit of rent and tourism. The right of preemption should therefore be improved in order to give it more effectiveness and effectiveness; It must, in our view, be able to be associated with an appropriate taxation of assets and with the taxation of locally managed secondary residences, in order to allow real regulation for the benefit of the general interest of the territories. This is an interesting example of the transfer of normative power from the state to certain territories, in addition to Polynesia. Establishing specific rules to respond to economic, geographical, social and cultural situations is a norm in European countries, whether federal or unitary. It is no longer possible for all laws and rules, in their smallest details, to be conceived exclusively in this chamber. The French Republic will not be dismantled; On the contrary, the link between it and the territories, these infra-State realities, will even be strengthened. It is high time that the Republic fundamentally transformed its organization – it is our wish, as you know – that it update its state paradigms, that it breathe more democratically. We know, of course, that not everything is pink in Polynesia. However, this bill is opening the way, in a way, to us. Our Freedom and Territory Group has made fifty proposals "to make the Territories stronger and more autonomous". There needs to be a real shock of trust between the Republic and the territorial authorities, the countries, through fiscal autonomy and the devolution of direct normative powers – not just the power to adapt – in order to solve the daily problems of the people. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The convergence between the Government and the Parliament, and the unanimity of these Joint Joint Committees on these texts relating to French Polynesia, show that there is a path of listening, mutual respect, understanding and real dialogue, and that solid political compromises can be achieved in the service of the specific territories and their populations. We hope that this method opened up by Polynesia will become more widespread without further delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u12	Mrs Catherine Kamowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u13	Two texts from the successful work of our two chambers are presented to us today. I share the general satisfaction expressed in the Joint Joint Committee and on these benches that I have reached a moment of national unity during the various stages of parliamentary examination of these texts. This marks that the Nation recognizes French Polynesia as a full member of the Republic, one and indivisible but open to territorial, social and cultural difference, to everything that makes it a people proud of its roots, soothed by the recognition of its specificities and confident in the future. These are two texts of maturity for the recognition of French Polynesia in our Republic. They are also proof that Parliament knows how to play its role, when it is called upon to do so, and that we know how to listen to the territories to meet their needs when it is necessary. Article 1 of the Organic Bill, already quoted extensively by my colleagues, confirms the place of Polynesian territory in the Republic, and everything we owe to it, despite the thousands of kilometres that separate us. French Polynesia also needed the law to apply in its territory, taking into account its specificities, in a spirit of equitable differentiation. Today, therefore, we will recognize new organizational powers and capacities in the communities of Polynesia, so that they can exercise their skills more freely and flexibly. We allow flexibility so that local elected officials can carry out their projects. Similarly, by means of a comprehensive solution, consistent and adapted to the Polynesian territory, we resolve, dear Guillaume Vuilletet, the question of the indivision of land. We will certainly have to apply this solution, and we will be attentive to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u14	It'll be more complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and GDR groups]] These texts are both useful, necessary and welcome. I therefore have the pleasure, on behalf of the La République on the move, of inviting you, for the second time, to vote without reservation, and to recognize the place of French Polynesia in the history and functioning of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u16	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to start with a bit of humor: the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly clearly do not need to be reformed, since we do not use all our speaking time, that the debates are serene, and the relations between oppositions and the majority of the most cordial! Let's kiss, Folleville! It is French Polynesia that allows this little miracle, on Thursday May 23rd of the year of grace 2019, do not deprive us of celebrating it! I come back to the main part of our debate: the fact that some of our colleagues may still not be able to agree on a number of institutional provisions relating to this overseas country. It had become necessary, after many years of operation, since the Organic Law of 27 February 2004. I recall that it is also a commitment made at the highest state summit, by an agreement signed at the Elysée a few years ago, which we are trying to put into music today. In recent weeks, both have already come back to a number of elements on which we have had an opportunity to express our views. These points also allow us to rally the majority who are speaking today on this subject: concrete questions of delegation of signature, types of conventions that can be submitted to the Assembly, questions relating to the daily life of French Polynesia and its inhabitants, or those relating to the creation of local public companies or independent administrative authorities of regulation. We had already tried to respond to it some time ago by taking advantage of texts concerning New Caledonia. It is also a grooming of the general code of territorial authorities, making it possible, in these territories, to create communities of communes. It was also necessary to try to flatten, even if it is still a delicate exercise, several elements relating to the indivision. French Polynesia is not the only territory in the Republic where indivision can be a difficulty and, let's say, a source of blockages. It is not a question of plundering anyone, or of interfering in the management of families, but there are great difficulties associated with land indivisions here and there. A second element seems very important to me. It is only referred to in section 1 of the organic bill, but, as we have debated it, it has no doubt become the main element, since it is symbolic, historical, emotional, and takes, you will allow me the expression, many of our citizens from Polynesia to the guts. This element has become, over the past 50 years, an important feature of their identity. I'm talking about the nuclear debt, which we have to pay. France can now be a great country, a respected power, present on all continents, with a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council and the right of veto, because, beyond its necessarily diverse history, sometimes caused by clashes and misfortunes, creating mixed feelings, it has nuclear fire, which gives it a special capacity for intervention and threat. It has been able to take advantage of this in the civil nuclear field, with a certain collective interest. This debt binds us to French Polynesia and its inhabitants. It was important, beyond what could have been said by each other, to reach an agreement, a formulation that would allow for the recognition of our debt: that was done, thanks to the adoption of Mrs Maina Sage's amendment. Once again, I thank the Government for its wisdom expressed on this occasion: it has enabled us to move forward collectively. Here, Minister, is a new example of constructive work by the oppositions and the majority: when they want to get along, it is possible! The text is probably not perfect, and if all the legal consequences have probably not been drawn from it – you are right on this point, Mr.Brotherson – it remains, however, that rights and duties will result from this recognition by national representation. The State would be ill-inspired not to take all the consequences from now on. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] Unity is not uniformity, we are demonstrating it collectively today, in a spirit of unanimity that suits us well, and to which the Republican Group naturally associates itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u18	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u19	The MODEM Group is pleased that an agreement with the Senate could be reached at the Joint Joint Committee on these two texts relating to French Polynesia. From their conception, these two draft laws were characterized by a very strong desire for consultation among all the actors concerned, and in particular the elected representatives of French Polynesia, in order to achieve an updating of the autonomy status of this territory. In particular, I would like to commend Mrs Sage for her important work. After a period of instability of political institutions, marked by a lack of confidence between the Polynesian representatives and the state, we have entered a new phase of discussions since 2014 and a new climate of confidence has been established; These advances had to be materialized by changes in status. These texts will have to facilitate the exercise of their powers by the country and the Polynesian communes, and strengthen the institutional stability of Polynesia. Moreover, this text has a very strong symbolic significance, since it recognizes "the use of French Polynesia for the construction of the nuclear deterrent capacity" in France; it fulfils the commitments made by the State to bear the consequences of such nuclear tests. Clause 1 of the Organic Bill was amended at the time of its consideration by this House to express the coerced nature of this contribution. This new wording, which was accepted in the Joint Joint Committee, could have allowed – as we wished – the adoption of this text by unanimity. The rest of the draft organic law helps to stabilize the institutions of French Polynesia, clarify its competences, particularly in the field of rare earth exploitation, and expand its possibilities to participate in international organizations. It also strengthens the powers of the Council of Ministers and facilitates referral to the Council of State in case of doubt on the division of powers or on country laws. The text also seeks to improve the competence of municipalities and local cooperation. With respect to the ordinary bill, we are pleased that it incorporates provisions to address the difficulties associated with the estate individual that we discussed on the occasion of our colleague Serge Letchimy's bill. On this point, you know that the MODEM Group is committed to the principle of territorial differentiation: here we see all the value of allowing a territory to adopt differentiated legislation, even temporary, in order to respond to its specific problems. We believe that this differentiation, so useful in the overseas world, could also be on metropolitan territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] The provisions contained in these two bills will make it possible to modernise the status of Polynesia's autonomy while strengthening the relationship of trust between that territory and the metropolis. For these reasons, the Modem and related groups are very much in favour, and will therefore vote for both texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u20	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u21	On Tuesday, 7 May, the Joint Joint Committees for the preparation of joint texts on these draft laws reached an agreement. In recent years, at the end of the Flossian years, the face of Polynesia has changed: it has developed, and the multiple traditions of its archipelagos have found new vigour. Despite the many difficulties associated with isolation, urban development or youth unemployment, in the middle of the Pacific it offers the image of a united community, whose standard of living is rising, like that of the large countries close to it. The current status of French Polynesia, which dates back to 2004, had been amended twice in 2007 and 2008. Several years of negotiations between the President of the Republic François Hollande and the President of Polynesia Édouard Fritch culminated in March 2017. These two texts constitute the legislative translation of these agreements. The flagship article of these bills is section 1 of the Organic Bill, which has been said to be non-normative, but whose symbolic scope is very strong, since it recognizes the "use of French Polynesia for the construction of nuclear deterrent capacity". This text has been enriched and clarified by our discussions: the term "contribution" underscores that Polynesia has not played this role voluntarily. This long-awaited statement of principle will not only recognize the pain suffered by the victims and their families, but also better compensate them – improvements have taken place on this point, but they are not sufficient. It will also secure the overall allocation of autonomy, which is discussed annually with the Government, including the Ministry of Finance, and which contributes to reparation. At the institutional level, this reform is trying to make the status more functional. We found that the resignation of some elected officials could block the entire machine; One third of the seats will now have to be vacant in order to bring about a general renewal of the Assembly of Polynesia. Another significant aspect of the text concerns land ownership, which has been undermined by colonization. We created a land court in 2015; This reform facilitates recourse through procedural innovations, in particular to support individuals through legal aid. This will, I hope, lead to significant progress on this recurring problem. These texts still deal with subjects important for the future, such as the exploitation of rare earths: the distribution of competences had to be clarified. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and GDR groups]] Mr Brotherson is right: these texts will not solve all political, economic and social problems. But we think they will make it possible to move forward. Tomorrow it will be up to the living forces of Polynesian society to seize it, for the sake of Polynesia. I trust the people to overcome the still important challenges facing this vast territory. The Socialist and Related Group will vote for these texts, which seem to us to be a significant step forward for the populations of Polynesia and the influence of our country in the Pacific region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u22	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u23	I would like to begin my speech by thanking all of you for your presence and attention to Polynesia in recent weeks. It is thanks to you that two important pieces of legislation are coming to fruition today, the statutory reform and the accompanying bill. It is a long-term work that ends, carried out in partnership with the last two governments. I associate with these thanks the President of Polynesia, Mr. Édouard Fritch, as well as the Government, the Administration, the Assembly of French Polynesia and all the elected representatives who participated in the consultations that led to the elaboration of this reform. I also thank the trade union for promoting the communes of French Polynesia, the Autorité de la concurrence, the Economic, Social and Cultural Council – CESC – and our representative at the Economic, Social and Environmental Council here in Paris. This status is not alpha and omega: it is a tool for the development of a territory. Polynesia is not limited to its status; Polynesia is 300,000 Polynesians, five archipelagos in the middle of the Pacific, 118 islands and an immense maritime surface, 5 million square kilometres, half of the French maritime surface. The status is nevertheless of great importance, since it governs the relations we have with the metropolis: our autonomy allows us to adapt the law, and it was essential to amend the 2004 text in order to strengthen the effectiveness of our institutions. It is several years of work, I said, in Polynesia and then in the metropolis, which ends today. These two bills were first considered in the Senate, of which I thank rapporteur Mathieu Darnaud, as well as my Polynesian colleagues Lana Tetuanui, mainly, but also Nuihau Laurey. We are completing this examination today, and I would like to thank our rapporteur Guillaume Vuilletet, who has been very available and always listening, but also all our colleagues who have, from close to or far, followed this dossier, and all of you who have spoken on this text this morning. The text has three fundamental components. The first aims to modernise the status of Polynesia and to facilitate exchanges between the state, the government of Polynesia and the municipalities. We didn't talk about it this morning, but tomorrow the Polynesian municipalities will be able to intervene more easily in the fields of competence of Polynesia. The adoption of country laws will also be facilitated. Mr Brotherson, of course I was sensitive to your comments. I want to tell you that many of the provisions in the organic law will facilitate the life of our institutions tomorrow, and therefore the daily life of the Polynesians. The second part relates to land reform, on which I come back only to say that it is a huge step forward; Here again, I thank the Government, for the Ministry of Overseas Affairs and the Ministry of Justice have been very present on this issue. The draft Organic Law also facilitates the establishment of local public companies. I will conclude with article 1 of the draft organic law, which enshrines the recognition by the national representation, therefore by France, of French nuclear history. We are all here the guarantors of this will to include in the marble of the law not only this recognition, but also the need for reparations. Yes, Mr.Brotherson, this reform will better guarantee and sustain these clear acts of reparation. The opinion of the Council of State on the low normative scope of these provisions concerned the original draft, and it was justified; It was the work of the Senate, then of the National Assembly, that allowed the consolidation of Article 1, to make it more powerful, and to strengthen its future effects. To the recognition of the nuclear fact and the contribution of Polynesia, we have added the need for health, ecological and economic support. A substantive work now leads to useful texts, for the benefit not only of the Polynesians, but also of all the French. As I said at the beginning of this general discussion, autonomy is built every day. It is based on a living text, which it is up to everyone to enrich – we will continue to do so – and which is only the translation of our common will to work together for the benefit of all Polynesians. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LT, LR and SOC groups]] So I would like to thank you very much again. Of course, the IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u24	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u25	I shall put to the vote the whole of the organic bill, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u26	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u27	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u28	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u29	The next item is the debate on the draft law, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on their cooperation in the field of land mobility (No. 1825, 1972, 1954).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u30	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u31	Today, on behalf of the Government, I come to present the draft law between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on cooperation in the field of land mobility, signed in Paris on 7 November 2018. This agreement makes it possible to establish a genuine strategic partnership between our two countries on this subject and establishes increased cooperation, particularly operational, between their land forces. Defence cooperation between France and Belgium is old and structured by their common membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union. In 2016, the Belgian government expressed its intention to modernize its armed forces. With respect to the Army, the objective was to renew the ground motorized component by 2025. Following the signing of a letter of intent between our two countries on 5 April 2017, the Belgian Council of Ministers approved on 22 June 2017 the proposal of its Minister of Defence to launch, in cooperation with France, the programme for the modernisation of motorised capacity, or CaMo programme. On 29 June 2017, the ministers in charge of defence of our two countries signed a declaration expressing their intention to create, between our two States, a strategic, unique and lasting partnership in the field of land, maximizing the interoperability of the Belgian and French land forces, allowing the Belgian land component to acquire this motorized capability by purchasing from government to government. This Letter of Intent initiated negotiations for this Agreement, which took place from January to July 2018. The agreement, signed on 7 November 2018 in Paris, sets out the principle, framework and modalities of the strategic partnership and cooperation between France and Belgium in the field of land mobility. It allows Belgium to acquire the first capacity of the CaMo program, i.e. multi-role armoured vehicles VBMR-Griffon and EBRC-Jaguar armoured reconnaissance and combat vehicles, interoperable with the vehicles of the French Scorpion program. The firm part of the acquisition consists of 442 vehicles, i.e. 382 Griffon armoured vehicles and 60 Jaguar armoured vehicles, for a total budget invested by Belgium of 1.5 billion euros. The agreement includes a component on operational cooperation and a component on cooperation in the field of armaments. The agreement also constitutes the first case of application of an innovative and unprecedented scheme, which provides that, through an intergovernmental agreement, the client State, Belgium, entrusts the French State with the task of entering into an acquisition contract on its behalf, in accordance with French national rules, in accordance with European Union law, with a designated industrial supplier. It specifies the obligations of France and Belgium and the industrial supplier in the implementation of the mandate. The agreement is a continuation of cooperation already established between the French and Belgian armies, but it stands out by providing for an unrivalled level of cooperation and integration and goes beyond the mere delivery of equipment. The objective of this unique and innovative agreement is to develop synergies and coherence in the field of employment doctrine, training and training, maintenance and support. This agreement will also contribute pragmatically, effectively and concretely to the construction of a Europe of defence through a long-term structuring partnership. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM Group and on the panels of the commissions]] These are the main provisions of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on their cooperation in the field of land mobility, which the Government proposes to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u32	Mr Jacques Maire, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u33	This contract, a real starting point, puts on the track an unprecedented cooperation between the French and Belgian armies, from armament to operations, and commits us for the next forty years. It is an ambitious agreement, which brings immediate benefits to our defence industry, as well as very interesting long-term prospects to which I shall return in a few moments. In the past, I would like to stress the quality of our defence relationship with Belgium, which has enabled this agreement to come into being. Like some of you no doubt, I have heard the harsh criticism of our Belgian partner, when he chose the American F35, rather than our Rafale, to replace his F16. Some pointed to Belgium's lack of European ambition and its alignment with the American brother-in-law. This criticism seems unjustified to me, when we consider the commitments of the Belgian army which underlie the CaMo contract, but which go far beyond that. Belgium has explicitly formulated this in its strategic vision, published in 2016: it aims, through the acquisition of capabilities identical to those of its European strategic partners, to integrate very closely with the armies of these partners. This ambition of total interoperability, which is Belgium's, is far from the norm in Europe. Moreover, the French armament industry has not simply won the CaMo contract, which amounts to 1.5 billion euros. It also won the Belgian-Dutch call for tenders to renew the mine hunters of both countries. For Naval Group, this represents a €3 billion market. With 4.5 billion euros in orders for our companies, compared with 2.9 billion euros for the US F35, the dominant supplier of the market in Europe, we can really say that Belgium, through the French offer, has made Europe's choice. In reality, the Belgians have a real political vision of European defence, which they expressed in 2016. This vision is close to yours and ours. Like us, the Belgians believe that Europeans must take charge of their own security and build strategic autonomy, particularly vis-à-vis the United States. And Belgium takes its share of responsibility. The Belgian defence, it is true, has suffered a great deal from budgetary restrictions. It has over-drawn the dividends of peace, but it is now engaged in a major reinvestment, which must enable it to regain power. This is a very good thing because, in the opinion of all the soldiers we have met, the Belgian army is very well trained and trained, and its soldiers are remarkable. It is endowed with a strategic culture close to ours, and uncommon in Europe: it is an expeditionary army, which does not hesitate to engage in the front line in the most risky areas and to make use of force. Even in times of budgetary restrictions, Belgians have never ceased to engage in theatres where it is very difficult to mobilise Europeans: they have been present in the Central African Republic; They are still at our side in the Sahel, where they often take command posts, and bring us critical capabilities. Along with our Rafale, their F16 fighters fought in Iraq and Syria, from Jordan Air Force Base. We have just relayed a detachment of 270 Belgian soldiers to Estonia, as part of NATO's enhanced forward presence. For a small army of 30,000 men, this commitment must be valued. Finally, Belgium was among the first countries to become involved in the European intervention initiative, launched in June 2018 by the President of the Republic and fully invested by Ms Parly, with the aim of developing a common strategic culture among Europeans. There is therefore a real agreement and convergence between France and Belgium in defence matters. With the CaMo agreement, it was the Belgians who came to us with a very strong European integration project. I would like to point out that the response of our government and the army has been up to the challenge. In a few months, the formula of the government partnership contract that is before us today has been developed, thanks to careful interdepartmental work. For my part, I find this formula interesting and bold. As the Minister explained, this form of government support does not pose any legal and financial risks to the state. On the other hand, it is a vector of considerable influence for our defence, and it opens up important prospects for our arms industry. Of course, this formula weighs on our resources because it implies a strong involvement of our services and our army. We must ensure that the DGA has sufficient resources, in particular staff, to develop a genuine capacity to manage export contracts, if this would be desirable, if it were to be used with other countries. In this regard, I have a regret, Minister. The EUR 40 million that DGA collects from the Belgians do not allow to pay the thirteen full-time equivalents that will be dedicated to the management of the contract in the next ten years. If the DGA's export commitment were to be sustained, this budgetary constraint would have to be eased, otherwise it would be suffocated and unable to deliver on its promises. It depends on Bercy, but we have to do something! We must also ensure that the contribution of the armed forces to export support – Soutex – is duly taken into account. Under the CaMo contract, Belgians are fully trained in France on Scorpion: this implies a very large investment by the army. We must therefore ensure that the law of military programming, which provides for additional personnel for the Soutex, is faithfully applied in financial law and in execution. I am sure that the Chairman of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces will be very attentive to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u34	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u35	Clearly, the formula of the government partnership contract can only be reused in very specific circumstances: in order to meet the demand of a strategic partner, to acquire equipment in our armies, for large amounts, with a view to broad cooperation with the French army. But when these conditions are met, this approach could prove very interesting to strengthen our relationship with client states. France is now equipped with a tool to meet growing demand in state support markets. France has long sought to develop its version of the Foreign Military Sales – FMS – American. In the past, we have already experimented with formulas, with Peru, for the acquisition of an observation satellite, and with India, under the Rafale contract, but, for the first time, France has here a tool to improve its position, in Europe and beyond. On the other hand, Minister, this tool could no doubt help to increase our ability to control the use of the weapons we sell, when our partners are sensitive. By strengthening the link with our state customers, for example in the maintenance of equipment, we are improving our ability to know where and how they are used, and we have increased influence in the political dialogue we have with these countries. This is a lead that we need to explore, and I will work on it as part of the information mission on arms export control that I am carrying out with my colleague Michèle Tabarot. Moreover, this type of agreement, the first arms agreement submitted to Parliament under Article 53 of the Constitution, allows Parliament to be fully involved. I welcome this on behalf of all of us, as this should be the case for similar agreements. I see an additional interest, perhaps the main one today: to show the French that Europe of defence exists. The initiatives we have taken with our partners over the past two years – permanent structured cooperation, the European intervention initiative, the European Defence Fund – are not just words. These are concrete tools that will be fully used to make the CaMo contract, and all those who will follow, a reality for our defence, for our protection, for peace in the world. Three days before the French have to decide on the future of Europe, we show them today that Europe is moving forward. This beautiful Franco-Belgian initiative foreshadows what Europe must be: an integration from the bottom of our armed forces, responding to a political project clearly carried out by the states, based on a common and convergent analysis of strategic issues. In conclusion, this agreement combines all the virtues: it benefits our arms industry and our strategic autonomy; it makes a decisive contribution to the Europe of defence; it brings transparency to an arms contract; It is a tool that can enhance the competitiveness of our exports and improve their control; All this, practically without risk to the state. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In short, I see only good reason to approve it, and I encourage you to do so, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs did yesterday, unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u36	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u37	The Defence Committee has taken up this text for its opinion because of its very purpose: the close military partnership it establishes between France and Belgium in the field of mid-range armoured vehicles. Indeed, while the most immediately visible aspect of this partnership is the export of 382 Griffon armored tanks and 60 Jaguar light tanks, its interest goes far beyond, in at least four respects: first, the use of a State-to-State sale is quite exceptional; Secondly, the association of our army and the land component of the Belgian army will be unprecedented; This agreement sets out a framework designed from the outset for further deepening of Franco-Belgian cooperation, well beyond the Griffon and the Jaguar; quarto, this strategic partnership formula can very well be a model for integrating military capabilities between Europeans. First, France has rarely used the rather original legal instrument of the sale of State-to-State weapons for a major contract, and it has never done so without immediate surrender of the State's rights and obligations to the industrial firm concerned. If the State has gone further than usual this time, it is at the request of Belgium. The latter did not wish to go through a conventional commercial contract, concluded with an industrialist, for a fundamental reason: it needed not only to acquire equipment, but also to build an operational capability, in the military sense of the term. She was looking not only for a supplier, but for a partner to support her in the construction of her motorized capacity. And if it has turned to France rather than to other partners, it is, of course, because it has judged our Scorpion materials better than competition, but it is also because of the links between our two armies in two decades of common commitments – which brings me to my second point: the closeness of the Franco-Belgian partnership. Again, the agreement responds to the wishes of the Belgians, as indicated by Major General Marc Thys, commander of the land component which the members of the Defence Committee met recently in Brussels, to have forces perfectly interoperable with ours, with a view to joint commitments. In concrete terms, where NATO guarantees interoperability at brigade level, i.e. by blocks of 8000 to 10000 men, the Franco-Belgian partnership organizes it at company level, i.e. about 150 men. To do this, it was first and foremost necessary for the Belgians to have exactly the same material as ours. That is why they wanted to rely on our Directorate-General for Armaments to enter into all contracts on their behalf, as well as to pilot this weapons programme – this is a first. Secondly, Belgians and French must share the same military doctrine and follow the same formations. This is provided for in the operational part of this intergovernmental agreement. The third point is that it already creates the conditions for closer cooperation with other materials and activities. That would make sense. In fact, as long as you own the same equipment, you can also exploit synergies in the field of their maintenance. Similarly, since the Belgians are building a complete military capability, they must also invest in artillery, support vehicles, lighter armoured vehicles. However, the Scorpion range, in which they have already chosen to acquire Griffon and Jaguar, is precisely the networking of a full range of so-called infovalued equipment in a collaborative combat bubble. It is therefore not unrealistic to think that, for the sake of consistency and efficiency, they will favour other Scorpion materials for their other investments. Finally, and this is my last point, this Franco-Belgian partnership seems to me to have some potential for enlargement, in one form or another, to other European states. If we were to compare it to something, it would be less to the FMS, which has little partnership dimension, than to the concept of a framework nation of NATO, promoted by Germany. France now has an alternative formula for cooperation which is likely to be of interest to countries with a strategic culture close to ours. This formula is a useful complement to the European intervention initiative and, in so doing, can serve the consolidation of the Europe of defence, which we all wish to see. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Defence Committee has delivered a favourable and unanimous opinion on the approval of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u38	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u39	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u40	A few days before a European election, which I believe is decisive for the future of Europe, we have to decide on a landmark agreement on defence cooperation. As our rapporteur has said excellently, this project of cooperation in the field of land mobility between France and Belgium carries a real European ambition in the field of defence, and this signal is given at the right time, as situations of terrorist risk, crises and conflicts multiply at the gates of Europe, potentially threatening the security of Europeans, and even as the great powers of the world aspire to a Europe under dependence or influence. The political affirmation of a Europe finally determined to take control of its destiny and to ensure the safety of its citizens is therefore more necessary than ever. This is why Europeans must develop their common capacity for threat analysis and empower themselves to respond independently. Today, with the Franco-Belgian agreement before us, these imperatives find a very concrete application. Through this agreement, we are going to weave a thorough integration between the armies of our two countries, which will allow us to conduct joint operations outside, for example in the Sahel. Defence Europe is indeed this capacity for cooperation and integration between States. Of course, this approach still needs to be extended to other partners in Europe. But we have recently had very encouraging signals. To build a common response capacity, we need a strong and integrated European defence industry. That is why we have set up a European Defence Fund, which will allow us to jointly finance the equipment that Europe lacks. Defence Europe is beginning to take shape. This agreement is a manifestation of this, which is why it is quite positive. This text also allows this Parliament, for the first time, to express its views in full transparency on a project to export arms from France. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is very committed to the issue of arms export control by this House. We have created an information mission, led by our colleagues Jacques Maire and Michèle Tabarot, which will make proposals before the end of the year to improve democratic control and increase transparency on these exports, as many parliaments are already doing. The agreement before us for approval is a good example of transparency, while respecting the confidentiality requirement, since the supply protocol that provides for the specific terms and conditions of the contract is classified. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons of substance, I hope that our Assembly will largely validate this unprecedented cooperation project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u41	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u42	I must first apologize, ladies and gentlemen. I am well aware that you are all enthusiastic about this text and that I too should participate in the chorus of praise that has begun to resonate in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u43	And at committee meetings!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u44	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u45	Alas, once again, I'm going to play the party trouble. I am well aware that this agreement with Belgium may seem miraculous and glorious. Selling for 1.5 billion euros of weapons, there is indeed enough to sound the trumpets! It's a lot, a lot of money... But who will really touch that money? I should also welcome the fact that, for once, national representation is consulted when it comes to selling weapons. We have protested enough about this. Members usually do not have a voice in this opaque trade, in which, in many cases, small arrangements between friends and reason for state prevail. Clearly, Belgium is a much more presentable state than Saudi Arabia, and it is possible, without blush, to deliver arms to it. It is true that she does not slaughter the population of one of her neighbours!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u46	Do you have anything against Belgium?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u47	Finally, I should be delighted to see Europe's defence "take a giant step", as you will not fail to celebrate in a few minutes. How brilliant it is, this agreement with our Belgian friends! I'm counting on you to show it. For my part, I am obliged to tell you another truth: this agreement is only a detail, hardly flattering, on the whole not much relishing your foreign and defence policy; It's a little golden room – and again! – in a very dark puzzle. Indeed, beyond what this agreement with Belgium says, we must focus on what it does not say. France will therefore sell 1.5 billion euros of armoured vehicles to its Belgian friend. Belgium chooses the tricolor industry, which is, in your opinion, confirmation of the benefits of Europe. However, you forget to say that France, with this agreement, only wins a lot of consolation. Belgium politely avoids a scathing diplomatic humiliation to the Government: it buys these vehicles after choosing to buy US F35 aircraft for about US$ 4 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u48	No, 2.9!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u49	That's more than double what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u50	And $3 billion for the Navy! Make your calculations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u51	We're already far less tempted to scream cocorico! I do not want to blame our diplomacy about this sale, nor to minimize its efforts, but we must nevertheless note the blindness of the Government and the majority, who continue to believe that the United States is ready to release its embrace of Europe. The sale of these F35s is a case of school, in more than one way. This weapons programme is the most expensive in history: this plane cost several hundred billion euros. Its depreciation is therefore far from being assured, and the risks of additional costs for buyers are high. Don't let that happen! Its manufacturer has more than one asset in his hand to make it buy. And even when its characteristics do not necessarily correspond to the customer's needs, no worries: the US giant has responded to everything. The company's first asset is undoubtedly to have been able to recruit an advisor to the Belgian Minister of Defence himself. Nevertheless, I will be accused of conspiracy if I stick to that. It is true that it has a master asset, even more solid, in its game: NATO itself. The undersides of the sale of the F35s were revealed in an investigation published in the Flemish newspaper Knack. I sum up the main conclusions. As early as 2013, NATO ordered Belgium to purchase stealth aircraft. What do you think you're gonna do? To carry out missions that Belgian aviation does not perform. It must be said that stealth is precisely the strong point of the F35. It was therefore the best way to launch a tailor-made tender for the United States candidate. However, the specialists are formal: the F35 is not an aircraft adapted to the missions actually carried out by Belgian aviation, i.e. essentially missions of the sky police. Of course, in the face of such a call for tenders made by the Belgian State, very few competitors took the trouble of applying. The entourage was so obvious that France preferred, in despair, to use an artifice to circumvent the tendering procedure. Rather than a simple arms contract, it has been claimed that it is a "strategic partnership". The expression is pompous to wish but conceals the truth badly: in your Europe of defense, the dice are punctuated; The United States is pulling the browns out of the fire, and we are the turkeys out of the stuffing. Rather than taking note of this, the Government prefers to pretend and seeks painfully to save the face. This sale isn't just a big deal, obviously. It is emblematic of the influence strategy of the United States, of which NATO is the vehicle, and of the Government's blindness in this regard. By once again selling the F35s to a European state, the United States ensures that its standards will continue to prevail among the armies of the old continent. Even more than a flying aircraft, a modern combat aircraft is a complex and sophisticated set of computer systems. The control of these systems is an inescapable issue of sovereignty. By testing their F35s in Italy, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium and Denmark, the United States also imposes its technical protocols and standards; They secure their hands on decisive air capabilities. It is so obvious that even Israel has made it a condition for obtaining F35s to be able to use its own computer programs. While nothing seems to be able to separate these two allies, Israel's confidence in the United States is not as blind as that of Europeans. Should we talk at home about naivety, about stupidity? I don't know anymore... Even better: in the name of sacrosanct interoperability, that is, the ability of several armies to act together and in the same way, the United States ensures that its norms remain hegemonic, including those states that have not chosen the F35. We are praised for the Europe of defence. It is supposed to be the guarantee of so-called European sovereignty, a way of emancipation vis-à-vis Donald Trump's United States. What a deception! Firstly, because European sovereignty cannot exist. This concept is a nonsense for a Republican. Sovereignty lies in the people. Article 3 of the Constitution simply states that "national sovereignty belongs to the people". Revealing the existence of European sovereignty is therefore impossible, because there is neither a European people nor a European nation. On the other hand, there are European peoples whose sovereignty must be respected, which is the basic principle of democratic life. The Government, in particular Mrs Parly in a forum that it published yesterday, has only been swearing for a few months by Defence Europe. He even wants to create a European army. I'm telling you, this is an absurd and dangerous proposal, seriously anti-democratic. Let's take this idea seriously for two seconds. If the head of state wants a European army, then he has to say who will be the leader. That he could covet this new and grotesque dignity as leader of a pseudo-European army is not an implausible hypothesis. What is implausible is that this idea could have sprouted in his head. And what's impossible is that it takes shape! Who would give orders to this army? Should we share with her the means of nuclear deterrence? Perhaps your blubbers go so far! After all, the Government was not very clear or convincing when Ms. Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, Angela Merkel's presumptive heir, replied to Emmanuel Macron's letter to Europeans. The representative of the German right, however, imposed on him a first-scale camouflage and launched provocations which should have caused a leap: she asked that France abandon its seat as a permanent member of the UN Security Council and that the European Parliament be moved from Strasbourg to Brussels. This is the perfectly rude, if not insolent, state of mind of the German right. That is the kind of hegemonic tendencies – let's say the word – with which the Government would like to compose to build a European army. That makes absolutely no sense! For our part, we assert it with seriousness and force: this is not possible. The friendship between our people and the German people cannot and must not go as far as servility. If the Government believes that it is building Europe or deepening European integration by accepting that the imbalance between France and Germany in recent years is further accentuated, it is more than a mistake, but it is a mistake. The subject of Franco-German relations is too sensitive to be the subject of risky experiments and to serve ideologists' projects. For several years, military subjects have been conceived as a means, it is said, of "reinvigorating the European construction". The same people who say everywhere "Europe is peace" have nothing more in a hurry than to give Europe the means to wage war. In fact, what is putting Europe on its knees is the social disaster that the dogma of free trade has borne. Europe's crisis comes from widespread austerity and competition everywhere and for everyone. If the European Union is so unloved, as you regret, it is because of the tax havens that it harbours with impunity within it and the anti-social policies it imposes. If you want to prevent Europe from collapsing under the weight of people's contempt, we must put an end to the actions of this bureaucratic and limited Frankenstein, which forbids the state to protect jobs, industry and wages, and to organise ecological planning. It is impossible to bring social models together so that workers finally stop engaging in unbridled and disastrous competition on the old continent. Stop acting as if Europe were such that you dreamed of it! No, the other European states do not make the interests of the Union take precedence before their own! No, they are not willing to make choices according to your desires! You can imagine, together with defence Europe, extending France's strategic preferences to the whole continent. This is what you think you are doing by encouraging the administrations of the Ministry of Armed Forces to receive European funding for projects developed by France. You think you're realistic, pragmatic, perhaps even cynical, but you're fooled by yourself. In reality, it is the preferences of others that are imposing themselves on France. This Europe of defence of which you boast is by no means an alternative to US imperialism. On the contrary, it is an instrument. That is a fact, but it is also a principle at the very heart of the European Union's treaties. Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union is quite explicit: it provides that the Union's defence decisions must be consistent with NATO guidelines. That is why those who no longer want to be on the trailer of the United States, and therefore of Donald Trump, know that we must choose the path of insubmission, that is to say to assume the rupture and disobedience of the Treaties, failing which they will have before them the stone faces of the European Commission which will tell them, as its President Jean-Claude Juncker: "There is no democracy outside the Treaties. » For proof that Europe's defence is only an auxiliary to the purposes of the United States, I would like to quote from the words of the Director General of International Relations and Strategy of the Department of Armed Forces, Alice Guitton. He was asked: "Does the enhanced cooperation between NATO and the EU approved in 2016 in Warsaw bear fruit? What are the limits? "The remarkable progress achieved in defence Europe, particularly in the last two years, benefits both the European Union and NATO directly: European mechanisms and investments, such as the European Defence Fund or permanent structured cooperation, directly reinforce the European pillar of the Atlantic Alliance and contribute to the burden-sharing of Euro-Atlantic security. The strategic partnership between NATO and the European Union has also been significantly strengthened. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u52	This isn't about CaMo! You're not coming to committee, and you're talking instead of defending the rejection motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u53	So that's what happens when we go beyond the false-likes and attempts to smoke by the Government and Emmanuel Macron. For our part, we advocate insubmission, the choice of a new French independence. It is the contemporary declination of the doctrine adopted and illustrated...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u54	By Mr Maduro!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u55	... both by General de Gaulle and by François Mitterrand: it is a matter of refusing alignment with any great power and defending only the interests of the French people. The interest of our people lies in the preservation of peace and the strengthening of an international order based on respect for the law and the peaceful resolution of conflicts, thanks to the imperfect but infinitely valuable tool of the United Nations. Instead, NATO is raising tensions in the world or, if necessary, imagining them. It thus pushes the rearmament to satisfy first and foremost the greed of the American military-industrial complex. I am not leaving our subject: the partnership we are looking at, this sale of armoured vehicles, comes at a time when arms spending is growing around the world. Above all, this contract comes at a time when Donald Trump has called on NATO member states to increase their defence budget to 2% of their GDP. It is to this ukase that the Belgian government responds by buying aircraft and armoured vehicles. It is also to this ukase that your government wanted to respond to the vote on the military programming law. In an effort to be Professor Trump's good students, contrary to what you claim, you did not hesitate to give yourself this 2% of GDP funding target before even defining the needs of our armies. This pure concern for display shows how much your self-reliance toward Washington is faked and faked. Everything is being done in Europe to get the United States to dispose of its weapons stocks, you know that. How do they justify their pressure? Thanks to Russia! The great Russian villain, this is the way to terrify the Europeans, bereaved like rabbits caught in the light of the lighthouses. The United States is showing its tensions with Russia to put us, the European countries, under pressure. Their new Cold War is the best way to force us to enlist under their banner. Their manoeuvre is certainly very effective, but it is also perverse and dangerous. For months, and even years, we have been witnessing a slow but certain escalation. Everyone mobilizes, sends signals of firmness, shows the muscles. The United States is very pleased with this situation. The states of Eastern Europe are so petrified for fear that they will not want anything as long as they ensure the protection of the American sponsor. Last year, Poland made an offer to the United States: it is ready to spend $2 billion a year to receive and maintain a U.S. armored division on its territory. I ask you to measure a little the extent of the fact. This is not the proposal of a sovereign State or, a fortiori, of a State wishing to participate in the construction of your smoking European sovereignty. Maintaining a foreign garrison on its soil is the situation of a vassal vis-à-vis an empire. It's the fear that leads to this kind of abandonment. It is anti-Russian hysteria, which everything is done to maintain. NATO exercises of all kinds, in recent years, have taken on unprecedented proportions since the Cold War. The exercise in Norway, Trident Juncture, mobilized thousands of men. We sent armoured personnel to the Baltic States, as part of the Lynx mission, which is part of the so-called "reinsurance" exercises to the East. The United States cultivated this paranoia atmosphere wisely, and the French government rarely missed an opportunity to follow suit. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] To talk about cyber defense, you're talking about the Russian threat. To talk about the Benalla affair, you're talking about Russian bots, even if you have more difficulty talking about the real Russian friends of the same Benalla... Come on, let's go! To talk about the European elections, you mention the Russian threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u56	We'll deduce your speaking time from the official campaign count!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u57	[[Same movements]] It's crazy, as soon as we talk about Benalla, it wakes you up, while European defence leaves you indifferent. To talk about space, you're talking about the Russian threat. A few weeks ago, however, it was not Russia that blew up an object in space and sown a cloud of waste that would harm dozens of civilian and military satellites and contribute to the pollution of space. It's India. But India is our first client in armaments. We have known for some time that the United States is most likely to harm us in outer space, by revealing the position of our satellites, or even by blinding them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u58	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u59	As technology evolves, you are only following and taking no credible initiative to curb the arms race. While the arsenalization of space must be stopped, while the development of autonomous lethal weapons, what is schematically called "killer robots", must be contained, your methods have only increased tensions and anxiety. Let's go back to Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u60	Let's get back to the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u61	It was the United States and NATO that paved the way for a new nuclear proliferation in Europe. In 2012, at the Chicago summit, the decision was taken to deploy anti-aircraft missiles to eastern Europe. The effect of this decision was the breakdown of the balance that had been established with Russian nuclear deterrence. In March 2018, Donald Trump changed the US nuclear doctrine and paved the way for the development of tactical weapons. At the end of last year, Trump decided to end the INF treaty on medium-range nuclear weapons. In doing so, he has deliberately played with our security to us, French, who refuse to see Europe become a field of confrontation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u62	What a loghorree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u63	But it is in his interest – to strengthen his imperial power – that fear dominates in Europe; It is in his interest as a cannon merchant that the countries of Europe re-arrange. This is precisely what Belgium is doing. To this, we must add the doctrine of NATO itself. The idea of pooling the defence capabilities of European states has been insinuated in the defence chambers for several years. In this area too, blackmail to public debt has had harmful effects. NATO has managed to make some believe that it is impossible or absurd to pay the cost of sovereign defence. To ensure that it can quietly dismember defence tools in Europe, it has promoted a doctrine called "Smart Defence", the key to which is the pooling of resources. Many countries have already lost significant defence capabilities. Fortunately, we have not yet made as much progress in implementing this doctrine as some of our neighbours. But the doctrine is there and makes its effects felt. We pool our resources, so that, gradually, we lose the ability to dispose of them sovereignly. The defence industries in Europe are in the process of mingling with each other. You say that it is a question of making savings for the states that order the equipment, of having "European champions", of being competitive on the world market and of being able to export. It doesn't make any sense. Let us consider the three imaginary benefits that you attribute to these cooperations. From a financial point of view, the savings you expect are marginal, because weapons programmes are developed primarily to meet the demand of States. However, different states have different needs, and that they are European will not change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u64	The materials are identical!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u65	The alternative that will arise in the course of the development of these weapons programmes is largely predictable: either certain needs deemed incompatible with those of the partner will have to be abandoned, or technical specifications will have to be accumulated, some of which will be useful only to one of the two partners. In the first case, the system will be insufficient in relation to the need. In the second, the duration of development will be much longer and its cost will explode. Today, we are pleased to provide armoured vehicles to Belgium. At the same time, the work is already well advanced to create a plane, then a tank, Franco-German. These agreements are based on the same logic. These two projects are false good ideas. The Franco-German partnership is presented as a panacea. Yet, do France and Germany really have converging interests in the field of defence? Do we have the same needs? Do we have the same know-how? I don't think so. Let us bear in mind, please, the financial disaster of the A400M project. As a general rule, industrial cooperation at European level does not have much to do with the great successes you are boasting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u66	Do you advocate convergence with Russia?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u67	You have to say it simply. Over time, France has acquired industrial knowledge that makes it able to meet all the needs of its defence. That is what we must give priority to. Franco-German cooperation is not balanced and will probably not be fair. Let us remember, for example, that, in the space field, we have signed with Germany the so-called Schwerin agreement, which provides that each of our countries develops a specific competence in the manufacture of satellites: to the French, the development of optical satellites, to the Germans, radar technology. Well, Germany has torn these agreements by deciding, despite everything, to develop optical satellites. By acting in good faith, France banned itself from mastering a technology while Germany decided to move forward in both areas. We are talking today about the Nexter tanks that we will deliver to Belgium from 2025, but will Nexter still exist on that date? The Franco-German tank project gave rise to doubts about this. Developed by KNDS, a joint venture of Nexter and German KMW, the project is also of interest to the German Rheinmetall. The risk that the two German groups will take control of the project is high and threatens the sustainability of Nexter. Of course, for the time being, the executive says it will be extremely vigilant. But let me doubt the vigilance of a government that was decided to arm Alstom to Siemens, after the President himself had derailed Alstom's energy branch to the American General Electric. I have a slightly more demanding conception of vigilance! The ongoing rapprochement between Naval Group and Fincantieri raises similar problems. We are told that both companies must pool their capacity in the area of surface buildings. They have, of course, already carried out joint projects. This therefore seems possible. However, with regard to the electronics that equips their ships, the two companies maintain privileged relations with different partners: the Frenchman works with Thales, the Italian with Leonardo. Who will be harmed by the rapprochement? And this in the name of what? In the name of an alleged imperative to go conquer export markets by lowering costs. This argument is misleading, for a very simple reason. Most arms markets are closed markets. Whatever happens, Naval Group will not sell buildings to China, the United States or Russia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u68	The Vladivostok doesn't remind you of anything?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u69	Moreover, the few foreign contracts only benefit marginally from employment in France. Moreover, the satisfaction of foreign demand prevents us from fully meeting the needs of our national navy. In the case of our Belgian contract, there is much to bet that the delivery schedule will infringe on that of deliveries expected by our own armies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u70	If you had come to committee, you would have understood that it was the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u71	What a lack of knowledge of the files!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u72	What a ignorance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u73	This is the consequence of the privatization of the arms industries: commercial logic prevails over the sovereign interests of the State. Of course, men at the head of these industries have a particular concern for the national interest. But soon, as in the rest of the industry, they will be replaced by pure financial and commercial ones. This agreement with Belgium is also emblematic of your obsession with exports. You gave an illustration of this during the vote of the LPM – the military programming law – by exorbitantly increasing the number of personnel dedicated to the "defense" – the support for export.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u74	No background work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u75	Before concluding, I still have to mention two problematic aspects of your defence policy and your passion for the arms trade. First of all, I want to go back to the technological advance that commercial logic has strengthened. Selling high value-added products is one of the best ways to make a profit. Yet the reality of threats should make us fear this technological flight and encourage us not to neglect the development of rustic materials. Secondly, the priority given to exports is not only a partnership with Belgium, but also and above all the delivery of criminal – and illegal – weapons to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia has committed war crimes in Yemen. Together with the United Arab Emirates, it massacres the Yemeni population. The arms trade treaty prohibits the supply of States that are at risk of committing crimes, yet the Government, with one argument: if we do not, others will. This is the Government's idea of defending international law and the interests of France! This is how he intends to defend the values and "progressism" that serve as a standard. It is a terrible shame that is taking over the whole of your foreign policy and that we must bear in mind when discussing this partnership with Belgium. In reality, all your decisions are in solidarity with this fundamental turpitude. That is why, before the Insoumis agree to vote for any arms contract, you will first have to put an end to the deliveries to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u76	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u77	I didn't necessarily plan to intervene, but still! Mr Lachaud, I have been wondering for half an hour what you are trying to demonstrate. You have told us that you want – and this is a shared view on all benches – that national representation can better grasp this type of agreement. While you have the text in front of you and are in a position to rule on it, you are defending a motion to reject it beforehand. In essence, you want to deprive the national representation of its expression! You also refuse to take up an agreement that will strengthen cooperation and thereby move forward on the path of sovereignty. Again, I don't understand your logic. You also claim to defend jobs, in this case in the industrial sector, and the industrial future of our country, but you refuse to examine this agreement. You will explain it, Mr Lachaud, to the employees, to the people who are proud of this programme, which will enable us to establish cooperation with the Belgian State. You will explain this to the employees of Fourchambault, Cholet, Limoges and Roanne, who participated in the success of the program. In essence, beyond the electoral exercise that you conducted in front of us for twenty-eight minutes – over a maximum time of thirty minutes – I wonder if you have only looked at the text that is before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u78	I don't think so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] You refuse to answer, you are trying to escape the only question that is asked this morning: that of the construction of enhanced cooperation in the service of our sovereignty, of our idea of it and of industrial jobs in the territories. For all these reasons, I ask you to postpone the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u80	In explanation of vote, the floor is Mr Joaquim Pueyo.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u81	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Socialist and Related Group will reject the motion for a preliminary rejection, because we believe that the agreement between France and Belgium, which will be voted on in a few minutes, is a good agreement. It will strengthen industrial cooperation and, for example, strengthen the Scorpion programme, which could help to give meaning to Europe's defence. For my part, I am not a student of Trump, Putin, China, India or Turkey: I am above all a Frenchman who believes in strengthening Europe. Europeans want more defence and security, which gives meaning to the European Union. For all these reasons, we will not adopt the motion to reject it beforehand. Indeed, we have a different vision. I believe, for my part, in the European Union, in its evolution. If more work had been done on defence and security, perhaps the citizens would have another idea of the role of defence Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u82	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u83	I am very surprised by this motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, because the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees unanimously adopted the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u84	They weren't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u85	Yes, it is. I do not understand that this subject is so important to France that none of its members should come to committee, but that the group should defend, no doubt for electoral reasons, a motion of rejection in the Chamber. I am all the more surprised that this project is quite remarkable, since it represents EUR 1.5 billion for our industrialists and lays the first stones of an integrated defence in Europe, which will, perhaps, lead to a European army. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Unsurprisingly, the La République en marche group will reject the previous rejection motion, in particular because it does not share this fantastic vision of geopolitics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u86	Mr Claude de Ganay has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u87	I will not vote on this motion of censure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u88	Motion for rejection!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u89	Call Édouard Philippe, it's serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u90	...because the bill is a step forward and the cornerstone of a more integrated defence in Europe. The financial stake is high for our industrial groups. Moreover, the production of the Griffon and Jaguar will not have a negative impact on the delivery of the armoured vehicles to the French armed forces, thanks to the proper design of the calendar. I am astonished, like my colleagues, by this motion of censure by the Members of the French Parliament, whose programme in the European elections foresees the exit of NATO and independence from the United States. It should be backed up by a bilateral agreement in Europe! Of course, the painful record of F-35 aircraft sold to Belgium remains sensitive and underlines the importance of introducing a European preference rule in the purchase of defence equipment. [[MM. Jean-Jacques Bridey and Jacques Maire applaud]] I will vote for this text, because, despite the obvious difficulties still hampering the construction of a Europe of defence, it remains possible – the prospect of a European army, on the other hand, remains utopian in my view – with multiple bilateral agreements ensuring the good interoperability and strategic understanding of the armed forces of the European nations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u91	It was a motion of rejection before and not of censure, Monsieur de Ganay. Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u92	France's position is incoherent: you constantly denounce American imperialism in the field of defence, but, for once a European initiative aims to ensure our own security, you do not even want to discuss it. You see in the agreement only arms sales, while it represents the first brick of cooperation and the construction of a Europe of defence. We have understood that we do not have the same European vision, since you have been explaining it to us for several weeks in all the shades. The examination of this text once again illustrates this divergence: we are trying to build progressive European cooperation, in stages, but you do not even want to hear about it. We are sorry, but the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not follow you on this path.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u93	In the general debate, Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u94	The title of the text is as follows: "draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on their cooperation in the field of land mobility". What is it? I thought it was the small train connecting Dunkirk to La Panne, the extension of the A16, or even a bus serving Wallonia, Flanders, my Dunkerquois and Lille. I am a doctor, the technical terms of medicine are sometimes extremely complex, but we cannot do more technocratic than this title! No one can know what it is about when it is read. So we should see him again. Mr Minister, I am very pleased that you are here to answer the question we raised yesterday in committee: the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is unable to know the stock of conventions that are still in force, on which we have to look regularly and on which our timetable has to be organised. We regret that the conventions apply even before they have been examined by Parliament. It would be unfortunate if a Member of Parliament or a somewhat rebellious group could appeal to the Administrative Documents Access Commission – CADA – or the Council of State for parliamentarians to be aware of the conventions being implemented. As it stands, the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees do not have any information! This is dramatic, and I take advantage of your presence, minister, to tell you, before some people, more reactive than others, go to court to get them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u95	We have information at three months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u96	That's not enough, we talked about it yesterday, Madam President. The rapporteur, we will approve the bill with both hands, Joaquim Pueyo has said so very well. I was one of the first signatories of a forum on Yemen, but the agreement with Belgium has absolutely nothing to do with it. You told us yesterday that this was your first report: for a first, it's more than a mayor's coup, it's a master's coup! I know no agreement of this level in history between two sovereign countries; Such agreements are traditionally signed between a sovereign State and a Suzerain State, and are numerous in Africa and in history. [[Smile]] There is no question here of bombing civilian populations, but of two historically friendly States that succeed in organizing together an armed ground force, with a purely defensive purpose. We are not going to attack Luxembourg or Liechtenstein, or the minister must inform us! When I said that we did not have to sell weapons that could be used to bomb civilian populations in Yemen, the Minister of Armed Forces had rightly told me that we had to defend our industry: the armament sector accounts for 17% of French industry. That makes them workers! In the order of 150,000 people, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u97	200000!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u98	That's it, 200,000 people. You have to think about these people. If the sale of arms is legitimate, France has the right to do so. The Resistance needed weapons, just as countries or democratic movements needed them. The moral on arms sales, very well, but, the object of this agreement is totally different. The agreement is economically intelligent, for a reason of surface first of all: we buy much more weapons from Belgian and French producers. Weapons are like flowers, the more you buy them, the less expensive they are. It's a great thing. Moreover, France is not blurred. Mr rapporteur, you will not say the opposite, it is France which is the prime contractor and which is launching the call for tenders. The two countries then buy the weapons. It is not possible to build a Europe of defence with everyone, since the differences in positions on foreign countries such as Russia are too great. But how could we not get along with Belgium? This is the first time that the level of interoperability – I am not a military specialist – between the armies of two countries is so high. It is not a transfer of technology, but a cooperation within a technological framework. It's unique! I do not know of any convention reaching this level of cooperation. It has a long duration of 40 years. That's it, isn't it? Twenty-five, thirty, forty? This agreement is serious, because it is not punctual: it is not a question of buying a plane or a tank, but of registering for the duration. Another important point is that we are stronger than NATO, whose interoperability does not reach the level of cooperation between France and Belgium. Not signing such an agreement would be incomprehensible. We are stronger than the United States and NATO on this point. Two sovereign countries agreed to buy arms in France, in the interests of France and Belgium. I really do not see how we can oppose such an agreement, when I am very far from being a war going on. Let's quote a Belgian author: "When you only have love to talk to cannons; and just a song to convince a drum," sang Jacques Brel. It is a complicated area that weapons, where violence is present, but force is legitimate if it is used to defend democracies. The agreement corresponds to the historical essence of France and Belgium. I am Dunkerquois: "duin kerk", the church in the dunes. There are still French people who think Dunkirk is in Belgium – not many, but there are. Read the Gauls' War of Julius Caesar: at that time, a third of France was Belgium. History made Belgium a buffer state, independent in 1830. This country has been violated twice in our history, but it has always remained our ally. Madam President of the Committee, Mr rapporteur, as you said yesterday, the Belgian military have real value. Kolwezi's attack to save hostages was carried out more than forty years ago by Belgian and French soldiers. The Belgian military are brave. It's the family, a family that dates from Gaul. A family composed of the Morins, who were Dunkerquois, Menapians, Atrebats, Veromanduans, of which I am genetically invested.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u99	I was gonna tell you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u100	[[MM. Jacques Maire and Jean-Charles Larsonneur applaud]] The Belgian Gaul! In La Guerre des Gaules, Julius Caesar wrote that of all Gauls, the bravest and most difficult of them were the Belgians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u101	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u102	The purpose of the bill before us today is to authorize the approval of an intergovernmental agreement between Belgium and France to establish a long-term strategic partnership between the two countries, in the field of the land mobility of their armies, and going beyond the mere supply of equipment. This agreement allows Belgium to acquire the platforms chosen by France under the Scorpion programme in order to promote capacity-building cooperation and interoperability. It also aims to develop synergies in the field of employment doctrine, training and training, maintenance and support. Finally, it concerns the acquisition of 442 vehicles – 382 Griffon multi-role armoured vehicles and 60 Jaguar armoured reconnaissance and combat vehicles, for a total budget of 1.5 billion euros. It was within the framework of NATO's capacity-building objectives, which required efforts to modernize its forces, that Belgium made an analysis finding that it was not in a position to achieve them alone. This need to modernise the Belgian army is justified by the rise of threats, to the east of Europe, to the Middle East and to the interior, as regards the terrorist threat; It also stems from the new direction of US foreign policy, characterized by the desire to "share the burden". This major modernization will involve the three weapons: the army, the navy and the air force. As I have already said, the intergovernmental agreement goes far beyond an arms market, or even a mere defence cooperation. Belgium was seeking a genuine long-term strategic partnership, which France could offer. Thus, the fundamental objective of this agreement is to combine the simultaneous will of the two countries to modernise their armies of land according to identical patterns, in order to acquire an unprecedented level of interoperability. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, if France can today create these partnerships, defend Europe and help maintain the great balances, it is because it has developed its nuclear deterrent capacity. This morning, we adopted the Organic Law of French Polynesia, which enshrines, in its Article 1, the recognition by the French State of the role played by Polynesia, which for thirty years hosted the French nuclear tests – not one or two, but one hundred and ninety-three nuclear weapons, carried out to the south-east of French Polynesia. It is our duty to recall that, if France has a powerful defence, if it is one of the world powers with a veto over major armed commitments, it is because it has been able to control nuclear weapons in the aftermath of the Second World War. It is therefore very symbolic for me to intervene on this text after the vote on the organic law, which we have just adopted almost unanimously. I would add, however, that the recognition of the role of Polynesia must be translated into concrete acts of reparation – and I insist on it all the more because recent developments do not seem to be in line with this trend, and urge us to consider, under the forthcoming military programming law or the next finance law, a new reform of the procedure for the compensation of victims.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u104	[[Applause on the benches of the majority]] We count on your support, but we will, in the meantime, obviously support this bill and this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u105	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u106	This bill aims to get us to validate an agreement with Belgium: our neighbour is committed to buying some 1.5 billion euros of armoured vehicles from French companies. I can see what we think of getting from us by submitting this text: a great moment of union, the verse of praise on the excellence of the French defence industry and the celebration of the so deep bonds of friendship that exist between France and Belgium, links, it is true, historical. A few days before the European elections, the majority, who set the agenda for our Assembly, imagined having a beautiful symbol to speak of a Europe which does not exist but of which it speaks constantly: I have appointed Europe which protects and creates jobs. I believe, however, that this text does not deserve complacency. On the contrary, it calls for a number of reflections. First of all, we must be well aware of the fact that if Parliament is looking at an arms contract, it is that the text does not in fact contain any substantial information, no misgivings, nothing which in fact feeds into a democratic debate. For the past two years, we have seen, like all those who follow defence issues with a little scrupulously, that everything related to arms sales is treated by the Government in total opacity. I do not have the naivety to believe that his way has changed to evoke Belgium. The report on arms transfers submitted to Parliament each year is an example of this concealment. This kind of advertising brochure made to boast the defence industry has little to do with an instrument of democratic control of the executive by national representation. No one here knows with what obstinacy the Government cultivates secrecy on this subject. If he talks, it's that there's nothing to learn, or almost nothing to learn. For my part, since we are talking about selling equipment produced by Nexter, I would rather like to refer to arms transfers to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. But, of course, the Government will not really talk about it, although it has too often been asked about it; his answer will be that of an automata: France does not sell weapons like breadsticks... bla-bla-bla... authorization by robust procedure... bla-bla-bla... share your concern for transparency... bla-bla-bla... However, the Government has been violating the arms trade treaty signed by France for months. Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty are very clear: a State authorizing arms transfers must ensure that these weapons are not used to commit crimes. If there is any doubt in this regard, this State must absolutely stop these deliveries of weapons. In the case of Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, doubt is not allowed: since the UN claims that these two states have already committed war crimes in Yemen, how can they doubt that they are capable of committing any more? There, thousands of people literally starve because of an iniquitous blockade, bombs fall on civilians, but here the Government is thinking only of one thing: not giving way to others in this lucrative market. Fortunately, now it is the opinion itself that is rising. It even achieves successes that save our country's honour. I want to thank all those who failed the shipment of weapons planned ten days ago in Le Havre. They are the pride of our republican homeland, concerned with international law and the good of the peoples of the world. Shame on the contrary on those who let their hands go or rub each other. In this regard, let me have a parenthesis. I observe that, in order to do its loading, the Saudi cargo ship chose Matteo Salvini's Italy, and that Mrs. Le Pen's great friend finds nothing to say about arming the Wahhabi monarchy. The extreme right in France and Europe does have this kind of contradiction. In this, too, it looks a lot like the "system" and our government, which, in the name of so-called political realism, diverts sight and waits for it to pass. He hopes to amuse the gallery by talking about what he believes to be a great success: the sale of armoured vehicles to Belgium for 1.5 billion euros. But even that doesn't have much to do with it. This sale is a lot of consolation. Emmanuel Macron and his family are constantly exalting themselves by talking about the Europe of Defense, about smoking European sovereignty and about solidarity between the states of the continent: you think you have a fine example here, but this has yet to be proved. Those who imagine that Europe, and especially the Europe of defence, is the royal way to emancipate themselves from the United States will be for their own money. As for the Government, he may not even believe it, but he will continue to pretend. It is an article of faith for him, and he will refrain from derogating from it. For the rest, do not imagine that it is the defence that will "reinvigorate" Europe. Only social justice, tax justice and popular ecology are likely to make the European project a bit attractive. Germany, our neighbour, is in no way seeking the construction of a Europe based on strict equality between France and it. It has been seen in recent years to establish its economic hegemony, thanks in particular to the institutions of the European Union, the euro and the single market where free and undistorted competition prevails. This hegemony, the German right is now ready to obtain it in the political field. Let's stop playing with fire. Mrs Merkel's successor at the head of the CDU told you: France must give Europe its seat on the Security Council, and in the cenacles of the German right, we are thinking about co-financing the French atomic bomb. Wake up! Meanwhile, Emmanuel Macron and his ministers want "a real European army". It's absurd and dangerous! The army exists only in the service of a sovereign people. But there is not one but European peoples. And this army you call your vows, who would command it? Where would his headquarters be? Brussels, Berlin, Washington? It's time to change the reading grid. When we speak of defence, we are not talking about conquering market shares, but about preserving the integrity of the territory of the Republic, the security of the French people and its sovereignty. To achieve this, we must choose a new independentism: to refuse to align with the positions of a great power; do not dilute our sovereignty in a Europe of defence informs; not abandoning our destiny to financial interests; to defend an orderly world in which international law and the United Nations are respected; refrain from participating in global rearmament and finally fight against climate disruption, which is already a huge factor of war. It is because of this global context and the Government's vision of defence that we will abstain from voting for this partnership.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u107	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u108	I beg you to excuse Jean-Paul Lecoq who, retained elsewhere, has given me the place. The text we are looking at concerns the rapprochement, intensification, "interoperability", as the military say, between the French and Belgian armies. If the Communist Members are not in principle opposed to military defence cooperation, the case is in this case more complex in that this cooperation is part of a framework drawn up by NATO and American policy, which consists of increasing the military expenditure of each of its Member States. Let's start with the strictly technical side: the French and Belgian armies will therefore come closer to reach an almost complete interoperability by 2035. That is, the weapons systems will be the same, the military will have almost the same training, and the commands will be very close and will share information and decisions. Strengthening military cooperation with our neighbours is necessary, and we are paying attention to it. It is good that France has taken the opportunity of the complete overhaul of the Belgian army to start discussions with this partner and friend, Belgium, and to become the country with which this country will work in the coming decades. These cooperations help to improve our military efficiency, strengthen our alliance with Belgium and, let us say, make savings. If equipment is purchased jointly, maintenance contracts will be shared, the increase in the volume of orders from manufacturers will reduce the cost, and the production of spare parts, which is fundamental for military equipment, will also be possible at a lower cost. This is all the more true since the Scorpion programme will be used by France and Belgium. In particular, it concerns armoured vehicles with no less than 70 per cent of their parts in common. Belgium will thus purchase EUR 1.5 billion of armoured vehicles from the Scorpion programme, which are manufactured by the French industry. In substance, the question of why Belgium is renewing its army has not been clearly asked. If we ask it, it is because we do not like the answer: it is under pressure from NATO that Belgium must invest massively. It is Donald Trump who, through NATO, is exerting this pressure. Obsessed with business, he punched his fist on the table by demanding allies to comply with their commitment to spend 2% of their GDP annually on defence. Why did Trump ask that? The U.S. defence industry probably needed to increase its orders. Attests to this the choice of Belgium, which we deeply regret, to command the American fighter F-35, for an amount that made talk on these benches. This is Trump's concrete response: to ask allies to increase their military spending to make the US arms trade work. This increase in military spending is contrary to the interests of the peoples. First of all, it's a goalless race. There is a need to increase spending because the neighbour does. In response, the neighbour increases in turn and so on. How far will this lead us? This escalation is not desirable for anyone. On the other hand, this new security environment, in which we threw ourselves through the military programming law passed a little over a year ago, is not necessarily the way to go if we are to begin a global de-escalation. We have already said this in the context of the review of this programming law: it would have been better to spend better on the working conditions and equipment of the military rather than buying new weapons or modernising our arsenal of nuclear deterrence, which costs us more than EUR 14.5 million a day. The LPM responded to Trump's demands for 2% of GDP spent on military spending. President Macron complied. Unfortunately, when public money doesn't flow – that's little to say right now – the choice of one item of expenditure is necessarily to the detriment of another. While President Macron's military commitments will be honoured, those relating to official development assistance will not be honoured. We committed ourselves several years ago to devoting 0.7 per cent of GDP to official development assistance, but we are not doing so because of the lack of political courage. When the president came to power, he expressed the wish to go back to 0.55%. In view of the current fiscal trajectory, no one believes in it anymore. Not to mention the budget cuts within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is another object of our criticism: the asymmetry of expenditure while the President has made "3D" the axes of his new policy: diplomacy, defence and development. The third criticism concerns the philosophy of this text and the place of France in NATO. The personality of the new US president makes the issue all the more relevant. Our security cannot be outsourced across the Atlantic, and Europe cannot let its military choices be dictated by the mood of this President. The question of the Atlantic alliance is therefore a serious one today. If, tomorrow, the next French government chooses to leave NATO as General de Gaulle did in 1966, what will happen to this treaty with Belgium? Will this agreement not link us even more to NATO through Belgium? This is a very important issue. Finally, the French and Belgian armies are now engaged in various operations. Some were legitimate, others resulted in dangerous failures, such as Operation Barkhane. While it was supposed to curb jihadism in Mali, it made it go back more beautiful and even dispersed it throughout the Sahel. The jihadists recruit from among the local populations thanks to the distrust and even hatred inspired by the presence of the French army, perceived as an occupying Power whose strategic objectives are not so much the security of civilians as the protection of French economic interests. For all these reasons, whether it is the escalation of world military spending, encouraged by NATO and Trump and in which we should not participate, the law of military programming which does not allow French diplomacy and development aid to benefit from a proper budget, the question of France's place in NATO and Belgium's link with this organisation, the relevance of the use of our armed forces, the Communist MEPs consider that the conditions are not met to vote on this text. Therefore, the GDR group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u109	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u110	The agreement signed between Belgium and France on 7 November 2018 reinforces the already strong cooperation between the French and Belgian armies and allows for a long-term strategic partnership. Cooperation with Belgium is based on a long tradition. Our two countries were present in Kosovo and Afghanistan, but also in the Central African Republic. This collaboration extends this relationship and gives it an even greater dimension. In 2016, Belgium adopted the equivalent of our military programming law, the "strategic vision" for Belgian defence. Its objective is to detail the characteristics of the most efficient equipment for their army. A few months later, following the signing with our country of this strategic partnership "Powered Capacity" – CaMo – Belgium decided on the Griffon and the Jaguar. These two French armoured vehicles corresponded to the needs of the Belgian army. On the economic side, this choice of French equipment is obviously a very positive news for the defence industry. It devotes expertise in this area, which is known to play a significant role in a number of territories. By the way, the Libertés et territoires group continues to highlight the wealth and the many innovative capacities, and more broadly the values of all the territories. On the other hand, the comments that we can make on this agreement must not exempt us from a fundamental reflection on the policy of arms exports, the strict control of geostrategic conditions, the use of weapons sold internationally. Many children are listening to us today in the stands: they must know that peace remains the supreme value and must be defended tirelessly. In total, Belgium bought 60 Jaguar and 382 Griffon from France, which largely caught up with the disappointment caused by their choice of the F-35 Americans in October 2018. Beyond these technical aspects, this cooperation programme on land mobility is above all an important step in the construction of defence Europe. In a world marked by the sometimes destabilizing power relations between powers, which can undermine the security of our countries, this agreement is good news. He reassures us of the ability of our states to work hand in hand rather than back to back. This collaboration is in line with the ideal of peace and cooperation promoted by the European States. Without necessarily drawing attention to him, this project offers a true vision of hope for a calm climate between our continent's neighbours. Indeed, it goes far beyond a simple supply of equipment. Our two countries demonstrate that the construction of Europe is in no way opposed to national interests. On the contrary, it offers our States protection, common construction and exchange. I insist on the exchange, because both Belgium and France will benefit from this agreement. Each of the two armies will be better able to defend their country through a strategy that favours the word "with" rather than the word "against", "collaboration" rather than "competition". Beyond defending one's own interests, this cooperation enables the two countries, together, to defend common interests. While highlighting our vital objective of cooperation in Europe. At the start of this project, Belgium wanted to modernise its entire army. After examining the practices of several of its neighbours, the Belgian Government chose to join the Scorpion programme. The interest of this agreement is twofold. First, it is to be seen according to the operational prism. The ultimate objective of both armies is interoperability, above NATO requirements. The second advantage of this cooperation is to be found, more prosaically, at the financial level. The development of synergies between the French and Belgian armies and the increase in the volume of orders will enable our two countries to achieve savings, in particular economies of scale, in terms of storage, maintenance or spare parts. The consequences will only be positive for our budgets. Thanks to this programme, the Belgian army is developing a new organisation, a new doctrine, new training methods and a new organisation of its support, according to a pattern identical to that of the French army. This agreement is a guarantee of confidence. In recent years, the share of defence in Belgian GDP had declined. However, it was in this context that Belgium invested EUR 1.5 billion to obtain French equipment. Beyond this consideration, we recognize the will of the Belgian Government in the field of European cooperation. Without moving them away from NATO, this program significantly brings the two armies together in terms of equipment, employment doctrine or training during training. It will hopefully help to strengthen the links between our two countries, both military and diplomatic, but also economic, industrial and therefore political. It shows that all collaborations can and must exist. They are not small or large countries when it comes to building together. The "CaMo" attests to the possibility for a so-called military-sized State to sign a partnership with a so-called smaller neighbouring State. Beyond the quantitative aspects, interests are indeed common. The rapporteur in the Senate pointed out, in this regard, that the "CaMo" program revealed how the opposition between large and small countries was detached from concrete realities. This partnership contributes to the cooperation of both countries and therefore reinforces the ideal of collaboration across our continent. More broadly, just a few days from a decisive election this Sunday in the European elections, the question of defence must be asked. Is it desirable to create a European army? Do bilateral agreements such as the one signed between France and Belgium offer the beginnings of a Europe of defence? Or, on the contrary, should we only encourage such agreements between countries outside the framework of an entity? The questions are being asked, they will have to be answered. Last November, the President of the Republic referred to the idea of a "real European army", to have a Europe that would defend itself more alone and in a more sovereign way. Today, what about these reflections? The question is asked, too. The examination of this text should allow us to enter into a more comprehensive reflection on defence in Europe. We understand from what has just been said that the vote by the Libertés et Territoires Group will be in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u111	Mrs Valérie Thomas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u112	The agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on their cooperation in the field of land mobility, which we are examining today, is part of a strengthened partnership that aims to respond to strategic competition challenges. Today we are in a changing geopolitical context: the world is changing and constantly recompositioning. The international order is shaken, weakened and challenged – it has shown its limits to the Levant, in particular – and the United States is increasingly sending scrambled messages to Europe. France is very involved in the resolution of international crises and its commitment, which is not only necessary for our security but also aimed at the humanistic and universal values it embodies, is recognized throughout the world. It is in this context that the agreement between France and Belgium has its full meaning. It is part of a process that binds France and Belgium in a common defence strategy: it relies primarily on their common NATO membership, which remains the cornerstone of our European defence. This alliance has enabled the sharing of a strategic culture, the interoperability of equipment and procedures, mutual knowledge and trust. It is on these achievements that this agreement is built upon. Nevertheless, there is an area where much remains to be built: the European space. The main challenge today is to strengthen the independence of the protecting Europe. Milestones have been laid to create a Europe of defence: it is in particular that of permanent structured cooperation – CSP. This principle, which was enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, had never been activated. It was the Franco-German initiative in the autumn of 2016 that made it possible to launch this strengthening of the defence Europe, which translates into a commitment by the countries to do more and better together for defence. Twenty-five European Union countries, including France, have now decided to take a major step forward in defence cooperation. The CSP is indeed a common ambition to do more and better, through commitments directed towards the most demanding missions. They are also concrete projects to strengthen the security of Europeans, in the face of common threats, such as the persistence of a jihadist terrorist threat that affects all our societies and populations, or the return of the power strategies of states, making the world more unpredictable and threatening. Defence Europe and the idea of fostering a common strategic culture between European states are also promoted by the European intervention initiative – IEI. It was launched on 25 June 2018 with the signing of a letter of intent by defence ministers from nine European countries. An ambitious initiative of a resolutely operational nature, the IEI aims to foster the emergence of a common European strategic culture and to create the preconditions for future coordinated and jointly prepared commitments across the spectrum of crisis. Built around a small base of European states that have demonstrated their political will and military capacity to assume a commitment to European security operations, once consolidated, the initiative can be extended to other European states that meet the same conditions. The June 2018 Meseberg Declaration by Angela Merkel and President Macron is also a milestone, a new step in the creation of a Europe of defence. Its objective is to make the European Union more capable of acting on issues of common security policy. It seeks to develop a common culture not only in the weapons systems, but also in the missions of our armies. In the field of foreign policy, strong commitments have been made to consider a European Security Council. Finally, in this construction of the defence Europe, the European Parliament has just approved a partial agreement on the creation and financial allocation of the European Defence Fund for 2021-2027. It's a new step. [[The rapporteur, Mr Jacques Maire, and the draftsman, Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, applauded]] The agreement between France and Belgium, because it is unique and innovative, is therefore a new stone to the European Defence Building. The construction of this Europe is therefore no longer a chimera. This must be seen not as an act of distrust of our historical allies, nor as a form of protectionism, but rather as a Europe's ownership of its destiny, in order to ensure the protection of 500 million people. A Europe that protects and a voice that carries: it is in this dynamic that I propose to adopt this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u113	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u114	Our Assembly is today discussing the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium on cooperation in the field of land mobility. Behind this title – as has already been said – is in fact a new kind of military and defence agreement which, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, potentially outlines the future framework for cooperation in military matters at European level. First, it is to be welcomed that, for the first time, our Assembly is called upon to take a decision on such an agreement. This is all the more important because it is the concrete translation of a strategic defence vision, whose contours we draw in Parliament on occasion, among other things, of military programming laws. Secondly, we must welcome the choice made by the Belgian State and the Belgian army, not only by signing an arms contract with France, but also and above all, by signing a government partnership contract which commits our two countries far further than conventional agreements. This is above all a very important desire to integrate our two armies of land through the acquisition of identical capabilities. As I recall, this contract concerns the acquisition by Belgium of 442 vehicles – 382 Griffon and 60 Jaguar – for a total amount of 1.5 billion euros. In this context, Belgium entrusts France with a mandate to negotiate with industrialists, to draft the contract, to conclude and notify it, and to monitor technical, administrative and financial matters. Beyond this arms agreement, it is a matter of establishing a strategic partnership with the Belgian army. Article 2 of the Agreement makes this clear: it is a matter of "defining the principle, framework and modalities of the strategic partnership and cooperation between the parties in the field of land mobility in the context of the renewal of their respective motorised components". This cooperation will thus cover "operational cooperation between armies of land" including the organisation and interoperability between armies, cooperation in training and training, support, infrastructure, and "arms cooperation", with the establishment of an arms partnership steering committee. The aim of this agreement is therefore, in the long term, to integrate as widely as possible our two armies, which know each other well and are already highly esteemed. The use of common equipment and the joint training of these weapons is an important step in this direction, with the Belgian wish to achieve full interoperability between our two armies. The meaning of this type of agreement is clear and reflects Belgium's unwavering commitment to further integration of European states. The subject of the common defence of the European States has been raised for decades: this is a very promising achievement. We therefore have every reason to welcome this initiative in a particularly challenging context for our armies. This type of agreement will of course lead to a greater investment by our European partners in the theatres of operation, which France is often alone in. While the Belgian army is in regular support of our army, particularly in the Sahel, we hope that this kind of initiative will encourage other countries to take an interest in it in the future. This seems to be the case, since the rapporteur refers, inter alia, to Switzerland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, in respect of the countries interested in the Scorpion programme. Similarly, while the operations facing our armies are increasingly diverse in nature, we must be aware that this kind of integration ultimately increases our capabilities. Very few armies are now able, in Europe, to have projection forces in remote territories and within a very short period of time. Working together is therefore also a great opportunity for our army. In addition, it is a matter of valuing our military programs, in this case the Scorpion program, which aims at a more collaborative approach with our partners. Finally, the convergence of objectives and strategies strengthens us in this direction. Geopolitical developments in recent years, as well as terrorist attacks, have revived investment in military capabilities. The soldiers, as in France, were called to conduct operations on national soil, in order to ensure the safety of public places. The African continent holds our joint attention and Belgium's ties with states such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo are particularly important for France: this is evidenced by the recent visit of Minister Le Drian to this country, to announce a return to French involvement. Belgium is, moreover, always very willing to deepen the emergence of a European defence and army. In view of the evolution of the world, its destabilization and the gradual abandonment of the protection that the American power has been able to offer, it is more necessary than ever for us to move quickly on to the issues that have been widely discussed. In this future Europe of defence, France will obviously occupy a place, since it is now the only army in the Union, if we put aside the British army, to have such capabilities as we deploy in Africa. This makes us major partners and players on the international scene to come, if we are able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by closer association with our neighbours and natural partners. The report emphasises the balance that this type of agreement constitutes, particularly for the French State, whose risks are very measured. It is now necessary to promote these agreements in order to make them prosper and hope that others will follow. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, for its part, welcomes Belgium's confidence and initiative and will, of course, support this agreement, hoping that it will mark a first step in the urgent construction of European security and defence autonomy, which we wish to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u115	On the single clause of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Christophe Di Pompeo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u116	The draft law, which is now before us for approval and which deals with a bilateral agreement between France and Belgium, concerns the construction of an operational and strategic partnership in the field of land mobility for our respective armies. This joint CaMo programme was signed last November in Paris. Very concretely, this is the purchase by Belgium of 442 armoured vehicles from the French Scorpion programme, for a considerable amount of 1.5 billion euros. However, the issue of this agreement is far beyond the economic sphere. Indeed, with this agreement we are really entering the field of the construction of European defence. In a context where the superpowers here and there are increasing their zone of influence and their military capabilities, this assembly must salute the courage of Belgium and France who have chosen to engage in a common military doctrine, an increased operational capacity, and have had the will to propose an unprecedented partnership between our two armies. Held by NATO to modernise the strategic vision and capabilities of its army, Belgium has chosen to move towards the French Scorpion programme to enrich its land mobility. However, this partnership goes beyond NATO's programmatic requirements. Annex 2 to the Convention, which contains the capacity development plan, is very clear on the objectives. The cooperation set up by this Agreement is aimed at creating interoperable Belgian and French interoperable tactical groups and sub-groups. In concrete terms, this means that, on the basis of identical materials, with identical employment doctrines and equivalent training and training patterns, a Belgian tactical sub-group may, without further preparation, operate within a French tactical group, and vice versa. As we can see, the prospect of interoperability within NATO remains fundamental. But the CaMo programme is actually much more ambitious than NATO's interoperability targets. NATO is planning it at brigade level, while the CaMo partnership will allow it at a much finer level: that of sub-groupings. With this program, the Belgian Army is developing a new organization, a new doctrine, and new training modalities, according to a pattern identical to that of the French Army. This opens up completely new operational prospects for our two countries, while scrupulously respecting the sovereignty and autonomy of each, since the operational possibility of joint deployment entails no obligation to do so. Of course, economic benefits are expected for both our countries. This partnership will help consolidate strategic sectors of our industries. It encourages a rapprochement between the French and Belgian defence industries, in favour of exports, which are a relay of vital growth. SMEs should also benefit from a diversification of their order books through this contract. Beyond the technical and economic aspects, this agreement contains an unprecedented political and strategic breakthrough. On the basis of NATO's obligation, a country in the Union chooses a neighbouring country to build a new common defence policy, which I believe should be an example for all our European neighbours. This agreement paves the way for maximum interoperability in operations between our two ground forces, consolidating a little more a strong relationship between our armies. In the same vein, cooperation between the Directorate-General for French Armaments and the Directorate-General for Belgian Material Resources will facilitate the development of new synergies in the areas of testing expertise and lead to close cooperation on future needs. For these reasons, this agreement is a first step, in keeping with the desire of the President of the Republic to bring about a common European strategic culture, or even a European army, by enabling the various forces to better understand each other in order to act together effectively, to develop habits of dialogue on employment concepts, doctrines and joint planning. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This agreement is therefore a cornerstone of the European Defence Building, which is built through partnerships, through which the European States join forces, in the service of the security of citizens. Other highly integrated co-operations originate in Belgium, but this partnership with France brings the construction of a Europe of defence into a new era, that of common doctrine and balanced partnership. It proves that, if we want it, the Europe of defence is starting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u117	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u118	In order to complement the excellent statements made by my colleagues with my co-rapporteur's hat for the Army's budget, I would like to return to some aspects of the intergovernmental agreement submitted to our Assembly. First of all, I would like to point out to those who accuse the text of being technical that the purpose of the bill, as specified in section 1, is totally strategic, and that the following articles on industrial relations are extremely pragmatic. Similarly, Article 8 on the statutes of representatives in governance bodies even sets out travel costs. Article 9 on the management of information and security also specifies the particulars to be given to classified information. This text is therefore not completely technical!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u119	The title is techno, but not the rest!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u120	I come to my comments on the text. Firstly, the acquisition by Belgium of 382 multi-role armoured vehicles and 60 armoured reconnaissance and combat vehicles confirms, on the one hand, the correctness and relevance of the choices made by our armies, in particular the army headquarters, in defining the present and future capacitive needs of the army, translated into the framework of the Scorpion programme, and, on the other, recognition of the quality, know-how and reliability of our industrial and technological defence base, which has been able to position itself and meet the requirements laid down. The acquisition of the material, if it constitutes the salient point of this intergovernmental agreement, is not the alpha and the omega. Indeed, I would like to stress the many operational consequences of these acquisitions: this will be an undeniable asset for interoperability between our two armies, thus raising them to a level above the standards set by NATO, whose full potential will be demonstrated through joint exercises, which can even mobilize binational joint tactical sub-groups. The availability of identical equipment will open up the possibility to cross-check feedback on their use and, subsequently, their maintenance in operational condition. In this respect, the training of Belgian primary trainers on the Griffon and Jaguar vehicles, for which the 1st African fighter regiment in Canjuers should play a key role – as a Member of Parliament for the Var, I can only welcome the recognition of their great competence – will constitute a very important first level of operational exchange. Secondly, we have paid particular attention to the delivery schedule to Belgium of the 442 armoured vehicles of the Scorpion programme. These deliveries will start in 2025, so there is no risk of "cannibalization" on the delivery of Scorpion segment vehicles to our forces, according to the defined schedule and pace. Furthermore, as part of the acceleration of the Scorpion programme recommended in our last budget opinion and endorsed by the military programming law 2019-2025, 50% of the new mid-range tanks will be delivered by 2025. Finally, in the future we will have to exercise vigilant control over a few points. I am thinking first of all of the prospects for keeping Belgian equipment in operational condition. At this stage, the maintenance component of the agreement should be based on a rapprochement between the École supérieure et d'application du matériel de Bourges, on the French side, and the Centre de compétence de la formation soutien de Tournai, in northern Hainaut, on the Belgian side. In the future, some aspects will need to be clarified. The aim will be, for example, to find a satisfactory balance, in terms of "social returns", between the responsibilities of French industrialists and Belgian industrialists. To put it clearly: who does what, and in what proportion? The response must take into account the know-how and added value of each, with a common objective: to ensure the highest availability. The second point of vigilance, intimately linked to the previous one, and on which we will not fail to return, is the pooling of stocks and spare parts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I would like to add a few words on the prospects for European defence. As has been said by my colleagues, this intergovernmental agreement reminds us that European defence is also being built by concrete and ambitious bilateral projects on their horizon, by projects that are not very talkative, but are geared towards the search for operational efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u121	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u122	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 40 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 39 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u123	Long live Belgium!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u124	The next item is the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the European Securities and Markets Authority concerning the seat of authority and its privileges and immunities in French territory (Nos. 1390 and 1787).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u125	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u126	The European Securities and Markets Authority – AEMF – was established in November 2010, in the wake of the serious financial crisis we experienced. It reflects the awareness of all the governments of the European Union of the progress we have to make in the supervision of financial markets. The established authority has binding powers to harmonise supervision of financial markets at European level, both in terms of the rules to be followed by market participants and those applicable to financial products themselves. Together with the European Banking Authority or the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, it forms a European supervisory system, which, in addition to the national regulatory authorities, now ensures the stability of the financial markets. The headquarters agreement that we submit to you today aims to ensure the best possible conditions for the proper functioning of ESMA on French soil. In this regard, I would point out that France has not committed itself to a direct contribution to the financing of the ESMA installation, which rents its premises in Paris by its own means. This is a very traditional "seating agreement", which specifies the privileges and immunities that we grant to the agents of the European Authority. These are based on the rules applicable to all EU agencies, as laid down in Protocol 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union. In addition, these privileges are comparable to those usually granted by headquarters agreement to international organizations and their staff. This Agreement does not grant diplomatic immunity to ESMA agents within the meaning of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, but immunity from jurisdiction, which applies only to acts committed in their official capacity as ESMA agents. This immunity and all the privileges contained in the agreement are justified by the preservation of the European interest, and especially when the tasks of ESMA agents are supervisory tasks. In the absence of such privileges and immunities, which, moreover, are laid down in Protocol 7 to the Treaty on European Union, it is clear that they would not be able to operate objectively. It is therefore not a question of advantages granted to European agents, but rather of a condition for the exercise of their mission in the service of the European general interest. On the other hand, France can only welcome the presence of the Autorité in Paris, as it confirms the new attractiveness of our country. When the Authority moved to Paris, other European capitals wanted to welcome it. This was also the case, more recently, for the European Banking Authority, which is about to move to Paris, and for which another headquarters agreement will be submitted to you in the near future. This attraction is also confirmed in economic terms: since last week, we know, thanks to the firm A. T. Kearney, that our country is one of the five most attractive countries in the world for private investors. This is why the agreement we are submitting to you today is a symbol: the installation of these two agencies positions Paris as the international and European financial capital. Other measures have also been taken to strengthen Paris' position at the centre of the European financial regulation game. I am thinking, for example, of the creation of an international commercial chamber within the Paris Court of Appeal and the Paris Commercial Court, or of the development of the international educational offer, which we know is an important lever for attracting talent. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the headquarters agreement between ESMA and the French Government, which we are submitting today for your approval. It implements all the efforts made to attract agencies to France, to bring our country abroad, and to consolidate our influence in Europe. France will soon have four European Union agencies on its territory: the Agence des chemins de fer, based in Lille and Valenciennes, the Community Plant Variety Office, based in Angers, ESMA and soon the European Banking Authority in Paris. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] These are the main observations called for by the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the European Securities and Markets Authority concerning the headquarters of the Authority and its privileges and immunities on French territory, which is the subject of the bill that the Government is asking you to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u127	Mr Denis Masséglia, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u128	Today we have before us the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the European Securities and Markets Authority concerning the headquarters of the Authority and its privileges and immunities in French territory. This is a conventional headquarters agreement, aimed at ensuring the proper functioning of this body. Its provisions are similar to those of other headquarters agreements and are in accordance with European Union law. They do not entail any legal consequences in domestic law, since the establishment in Paris of ESMA, a body entirely financed by the European Union, does not entail any costs to the State. It is therefore only a headquarters agreement similar to those governing the functioning of other international organizations with their headquarters in our capital. This text does not alter the role of finance in our economy, nor even the rules governing the functioning of financial markets. It only changes the day-to-day functioning of the Autorité des marchés financiers, since it will replace, once ratified, Protocol 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union annexed to the Treaty of the European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which has applied since the establishment of the institution in Paris in January 2011, and which differs little from the text we are considering. However, the context should be borne in mind. Following the 2008 financial crisis, the European Commission found it useful to put in place an architecture for the supervision of European financial markets capable of preventing systemic risks that threaten them. It has therefore created the European System of Financial Supervision, which it has mandated to contribute to the development of more unified and coherent rules in order to prevent any accumulation of risks that could threaten the stability of the overall financial system. This European System of Financial Supervision consists of the European Systemic Risk Council, under the responsibility of the European Central Bank, the European Banking Authority, located in London, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, located in Frankfurt, and the European Securities and Markets Authority, located in Paris. The European Securities and Markets Authority is responsible for protecting investors, promoting the integrity and transparency of markets and strengthening the financial system by assessing risks, informing investors, laying down technical standards and advising the European institutions in establishing a uniform regulatory framework for Union markets. ESMA therefore mainly plays a role in harmonising Community rules on financial markets rather than a genuine supervisory role, which remains exercised by the Member States. ESMA employs 229 permanent staff, including 66 contract staff, 147 temporary staff and 16 seconded national experts. Some 60 Frenchmen work there. It is governed by two bodies: on the one hand, a Supervisory Board composed of the heads of the 28 national regulatory authorities of the Union and the European Economic Area, the Director-General for Financial Stability, Financial Services and the Capital Markets Union, as well as the heads of the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, and a representative of the European Systemic Risk Committee; on the other hand, a board of directors composed of six members selected from among those of the Supervisory Board, on which the Autorité des marchés financiers, the AMF, sits. Its 2017 budget is EUR 42 million, the main contributions from national regulatory authorities and the European Union. France has not committed itself to a direct contribution to the financing of the European Securities and Markets Authority. It also made no commitment regarding the costs associated with the installation of the agency's headquarters in Paris. The provisions of the agreement are, to a few details, already in force. Indeed, in the absence of a headquarters agreement and since ESMA was established in Paris in 2011, Protocol 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies. The absence of an agreement has thus far not created any difficulties, but the European Regulation of 24 November 2010 establishing ESMA provided in Article 74 that a headquarters agreement should be concluded and approved by the host State and the ESMA Board of Directors. This headquarters agreement therefore makes it possible to clarify certain points. It shall specify that the privileges and immunities referred to in Article 11 of the Protocol shall be accorded to the members of the Management Board and the Board of Supervisory Authorities of ESMA, as well as to their advisers and technical experts. It also clarifies the regime of privileges and immunities accorded to national experts seconded from the Authority and urges the French Government to promote the secondment of French national experts to the Authority. Apart from these few points, which took five years to negotiate, the headquarters agreement has no material consequences. However, this agreement is useful because it will help strengthen the Paris financial centre, which Brexit, if it takes place as planned, will also promote. By leaving the European Union, the United Kingdom could lose the "financial passport", i.e. for many companies in the City of London, access to the European market for the sale of their products and services. In order to continue exporting, these companies will have to relocate services to the European Union. According to the Bank of England, 10,000 jobs will be directly affected. Several companies, including JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and Blackrock, announced that they had chosen the Paris financial centre to develop after Brexit. Paris Europlace, an association that brings together the economic and financial ecosystem of Paris, estimates that 3500 direct jobs should be created in Paris, for a total of 20,000 jobs, counting the jobs induced. Another consequence of Brexit is the decision taken on 20 November 2017 to relocate to Paris the headquarters of the European Banking Authority – ABE – currently located in London. It is a building in the district of La Défense, the Europlaza tower, which was chosen to accommodate the 200 people working for this institution. Beyond these direct jobs, the establishment in Paris of EBA, if the United Kingdom is effectively leaving the European Union, should offer finance companies an additional reason to settle in Paris. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ratification of the agreement we are considering will not have a direct impact on these issues. However, in view of France's desire to make Paris an alternative European financial centre to London, it would be a bad signal to wait longer before ratifying this agreement. Planned by a European regulation adopted in 2010, it was validated by the ESMA Board of Directors in January 2016, five years after the installation of the Authority in Paris. It took another seven months before it was signed on 23 August 2016 and then two and a half years for the parliamentary calendar to allow for the examination that we are carrying out today. In total, therefore, it would have taken eight years, starting with the establishment of ESMA in Paris, for us to finally allow the ratification of an agreement which is certainly necessary, but of very limited scope and which is similar to a formality. During this period, the United Kingdom had time to vote its own exit from the European Union and to give the text an issue that it did not originally involve. It is therefore time to put an end to this expectation and to allow the ratification of this headquarters agreement, which is now in the broader perspective of a rise in the financial position of Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u129	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u130	The bill we are debating deserves a little time. While its purpose is essentially to finalise the establishment in France of the European Securities and Markets Authority, the context for the creation of this authority and the importance of the tasks entrusted to it must be stressed and strongly recalled. In the aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2008, which revealed the flaws of the European supervisory system, the European Commission decided to take action to protect Europe from a new systemic risk. In November 2008, a high-level group chaired by Jacques de Larosière was tasked with making recommendations to strengthen the European supervisory framework. The conclusion of the report was clear: "The supervision of the financial system has for too long been limited to individual supervision of the institutions without taking into account the fact that the system as a whole can be exposed to common risks. » The establishment of the European Securities and Markets Authority is the result of this preparatory work. As our excellent rapporteur has pointed out, this institution has four key tasks: to help maintain the financial stability of the European Union by ensuring the integrity, transparency and smooth functioning of financial markets; strengthen investor protection; develop a single European regulation; ensure supervision of rating agencies. Since its inception, it has been the only competent authority for all rating agencies. The establishment of a European system of financial regulation is all the more crucial since the 2008 crisis is likely to resurge at any time. Leading signs such as the high level of public and private debt at the global level are now helping to fuel concerns, and the International Monetary Fund – IMF – highlights the risks of a new crisis linked to a rapid rise in interest rates. In this context, France's position has the merit of clarity and consistency. Our country has always been in favour of the greatest possible convergence of supervision in the European Union. This is more current than ever. The European Securities and Markets Authority has been operating since 1 January 2011. It is therefore more than time to ratify this headquarters agreement – as you said, Mr rapporteur – a fortiori in the context of Brexit, which can be a boon for the Place de Paris. France is counting on the establishment in Paris, in the district of La Défense, of the European Banking Authority to strengthen the attractiveness of the capital. It is possible, moreover, that the merger of the two institutions may be envisaged. Finally, if the United Kingdom loses access to the "European financial passport" as is possible, a number of financial companies located in London should relocate at least 10,000 jobs within the European Union. Mr rapporteur, you have estimated the number of jobs that could be relocated to Paris at 3000, and you have mentioned 20,000 indirect jobs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond its purpose, the text before us fits well into a comprehensive strategy for the future. That is why I hope that Parliament will give it its full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u131	In the general debate, Mr Christophe Naegelen spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u132	The text before us today is a simple headquarters agreement between France and the European Securities and Markets Authority. ESMA is one of the European authorities responsible for detecting risks to financial stability and, in particular, to financial markets. It is based on the decentralized network of national authorities. Its role is to harmonise European rules on financial markets, with the supervisory role reserved for national authorities, such as the Autorité des marchés financiers, which we know well. I will not go back to the content of this agreement: it is a conventional headquarters agreement, which gives ESMA a legal capacity equivalent to that of legal persons under French law. The text also provides for privileges and immunities for agents, which may seem surprising, at first glance, but which are also classic for this type of authority under the European Union – they include entry into French territory, immunity from jurisdiction or exemption from national income tax. Apart from this last point, France is not directly involved in the financing of ESMA. The signing of this Agreement also forms part of the implementation of the Joint Declaration of the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission of 12 June 2012 on decentralised agencies, which recommends the conclusion of headquarters agreements between the decentralised agencies of the Union and the host Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that our role as national parliamentarians is relatively limited with regard to the content of these agreements, which we cannot amend. We can ratify them or refuse to do so. This agreement, like the others on this day, does not pose any difficulties. However, I want to take advantage of this discussion to come back to two points. First of all, it seems to me that the agreement must ask us about the deadlines for ratification in general. ESMA was established following the 2008 crisis by a Regulation of 24 November 2010, which specifies that Protocol 7 on immunities and privileges applies to ESMA. This text is annexed to the Treaties on the European Union and on its functioning. ESMA thus entered into operation on 1 January 2011. As the rapporteur points out in his report, "the absence of a headquarters agreement since 1 January 2011 [...] has not created any operational difficulties". This agreement was finally validated by the ESMA Board of Directors in January 2016. It took seven months before it was signed on August 23, 2016. And his parliamentary review took place in October 2018 in the Senate, and today in our chamber. In other words, between the installation of ESMA in Paris and the ratification, eight years have passed! This must ask us collectively about our procedures. Moreover, this agreement must be the first in a series of future agreements, as a result of the UK's exit from the European Union. The location of ESMA in Paris had been planned before Brexit, but it can and must pave the way for the installation, first of all of companies and banks that would leave the City to come to France, but also of European agencies and authorities in Paris as well as, it must be stressed, in the province. France is not just Paris! I would remind you that France is hosting the European Union Agency for Railways, based in Lille and Valenciennes, as well as the Community Plant Variety Office, based in Angers. These two organizations could, at least we hope, be joined by others. Unfortunately, the European Medicines Agency will move to Amsterdam. On the other hand, the European Banking Authority could establish itself in France. What about the outcome of the negotiations? By reducing the negotiation and ratification deadlines, we need to be more attractive and make Brexit – which is certainly a tear for the European Union – an opportunity for our economy, businesses and jobs, to which the current uncertainty is very damaging. Let us therefore make Brexit a chance for our country and for the rest of Europe. These supranational authorities are not mentioned in the campaign of the European elections, but they are important – which does not mean that they must be multiplied. To invoke and develop these authorities common to the Twenty-Seven must not exempt us from a specific reflection on the euro area, with a view to strengthening its fiscal convergence. That is the meaning of the proposals I made with Sylvain Waserman in the information report on the future of the euro area presented at the end of last year. In particular, we call for a new model to speed up convergence within the euro area, in small circles, in order to achieve faster progress, relying in particular on the Franco-German axis. To this proposal, I would add the necessary harmonisation of rules, particularly on business law, with a view to drawing up a code, and the completion of the consolidation of the European banking system. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of this agreement on the European Securities and Markets Authority. It must lead to future discussions on broader issues, both on the future of the European Union following Brexit and on our procedures and on European choices in the financial field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u133	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u134	The importance of the European Securities and Markets Authority is a matter of great importance. The stability and efficiency of the European financial system depend in part on this agency. At European level, micro-prudential supervision of financial stability is carried out by the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority. Their mission is to define technical guidelines, recommendations and standards in order to ensure the consistent application of EU law within the Single Market. These authorities also act as safeguards for the European financial system, allowing cooperation between national supervisory authorities, for better harmonisation of practices. In some cases, the Council of the European Union may even grant them direct supervisory powers. This is particularly the case for ESMA with regard to the regulation of credit rating agencies. The European Securities and Markets Authority therefore plays a leading role in safeguarding the European financial system, and this must continue. To do so, it needs all the tools contained in this Headquarters Agreement. It has no other purpose but to ensure the best possible operating conditions. It shall specify the provisions relating to the establishment of the Authority and the services to be provided, as well as the material conditions under which it will carry out its supervisory role. The Regulation of the European Union, according to which the seat of the European Securities and Markets Authority is established in Paris, specifies that Protocol No 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union applies to that authority and to its staff. Consequently, the absence of a headquarters agreement did not create any particular difficulties for the functioning of that institution, since the necessary privileges and immunities were applied as soon as that regulation entered into force. However, the headquarters agreement submitted to us offers all the guarantees to the Authority by transposing the provisions of Protocol No 7 to the particular case of its Parisian establishment. Today, therefore, we are invited to a vote of continuity. The consequences of Brexit, however harmful they may be – for the present and for the future – will at least benefit the relocation of the European Banking Agency on French soil. This choice is the result of the establishment of the European Securities and Markets Authority in Paris. And it is thanks to the sum of these institutions established in France that our country will be able to find its place among the other European financial centres. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Since this Headquarters Agreement does not alter the rules governing the functioning of financial markets, there is no reason to oppose its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u135	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-23-O1246.u136	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the European Securities and Markets Authority concerning the headquarters of the Authority and its privileges and immunities in French territory; Discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the framework agreement on cross-border health cooperation between the Government of the French Republic and the Swiss Federal Council and of the framework agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on cross-border health cooperation. The meeting is adjourned.
