ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2187, 2243).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with amendment No. 1506 to article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u3	I have before me three amendments, Nos 1506, 2300 and 1530, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 1506 is not defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2300.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u4	The purpose of this amendment is to remind this distinguished House that it is regrettable not to insist on sterility research. It would probably be sufficient to specify that prior to referring couples to medically assisted reproduction – LDCs – more in-depth research on the causes of infertility must be carried out. It is important to stress this because, as you have often pointed out in committee discussions, the use of the LDC is often a real physical and moral test for couples. Sterility, whether explained or not, is a real subject of society. Cases continue to increase: every year, on average, 500,000 couples consult before being helped to conceive a child, i.e. one in seven couples, which seems enormous to me. According to a study of 100 couples, the cause of infertility is purely female in 34% of cases, purely male in 20% of cases and shared in 38% of cases. What solutions do we bring to these couples, apart from the use of the LDC? Unfortunately, I fear that there are too few of them, and since you seem very sensitive to the fact that all those who wish to have a child can have a child, it is also necessary to allow couples wishing to have a child without resorting to the LDC to see this wish fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u5	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1530.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u6	This amendment proposes the deletion of the subparagraphs which extend medical assistance to procreation – AMP – to couples of women and single women, but also remove the criterion of infertility found for male-female couples. This raises questions as no real impact study has been carried out on the use that can be made by heterosexual couples of MPA in the absence of evidence of infertility. Of course, we don't use the AMP for pleasure. It's a long and difficult process. But as Mr Bazin said this afternoon, there is still a risk that the possibility of selecting gametes or embryos will lead male-female couples to use the AMP – especially if it is reimbursed, we will have an opportunity to discuss it earlier – without any objective need. During the fact-finding mission, the Chair of the National Ethics Advisory Committee – CCNE – had expressed his opposition to the removal of the criterion of pathological infertility for male-female couples. There are no opinions or impact studies to quantify the number of heterosexual couples who will use this technique or to consider the subsequent developments that may result from this removal of the objective criterion of infertility. That is why we propose, through this amendment, the abolition of the extension of the MPA to women's couples and single women, but also the abolition of the removal of the criterion of pathological infertility for women's and men's couples, because we do not know how far such a measure could lead us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u7	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, rapporteur of the special committee responsible for examining the bioethics bill, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u8	The opinion is unfavourable on these various amendments, which would render the text meaningless, since they want to remain in a LDC reserved for men and women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u9	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u10	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u11	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2271, 2336, 674 and 1950, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2271 and 2336 are identical. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 2271.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u12	This amendment concerns the production and conservation of embryos during MPA procedures. We all agree on the objective of limiting the number of embryos retained, which is enshrined in the 2011 law. Indeed, the creation of embryos that are then frozen raises widely shared ethical questions. At the time, the ovocal vitrification technique was only in its early stages. Its development now offers us another solution for the production of embryos, with the possibility of self-conservation of oocytes. For this reason, we propose inserting in Article 1e r a paragraph as follows: "The cryoconservation of oocytes is prohibited and the number of embryos fertilized by attempts to provide medical assistance in procreation is limited to the number of embryos directly implanted either one or two. This takes into account the alternative of self-conservation of oocytes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u13	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 2336.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u14	My remarks will go in the same direction. The discussions revealed that there are now more than 200,000 embryos in cryoconservation. This is a real challenge. Today, however, we can do otherwise. As long as the cryonconservation of gametes exists, it is necessary to pull this thread. We are talking a lot about ethics, so let's take care of this issue of the embryo with serenity while ensuring that the number of supernumerary embryos is limited. I often hear our rapporteur, Professor Touraine, insist on advances in science. We have a real one: let us draw the consequences and make sure that, for the sake of ethics, we decide not to keep embryos but gametes. It would be a fully ethical vision – unless one prefers the so-called least ethical, which I dare not imagine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u15	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 674.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u16	I had tabled this amendment, which goes in the same direction as those of my colleagues, in a special committee. Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, you told me that he was satisfied to the extent that the Biomedicine Agency was responding to my concern. So I looked at the responsibilities of the Biomedicine Agency – not that I question your word, minister, but our concern for serious work should lead us to verify that the Agency's missions adequately address the crucial issue of supernumerary embryos. However, its annual activity report includes an analysis of authorisations and approvals, an assessment of the state of research on embryo and embryonic stem cells, an assessment of the implementation of pre-implantation and prenatal diagnoses, and an assessment of the status of possible organ trafficking. There is no mention of the priority that should be given to vitrification of oocytes, so that the creation of an embryo can only be done if necessary. This would, however, be an answer to this very important problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u17	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor to support Amendment No. 1950.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u18	The purpose of this appeal amendment is to raise to the legislative level a set of good practices aimed at limiting the number of embryos transferred as part of LDC approaches. For many years, especially during the 1990s, the transfer of several embryos – sometimes three or more – was frequently carried out in order to achieve better pregnancy rates, at the risk of large or multiple gemellas. Since then, the medical profession has self-regulated and developed good practices, which can be found in the annex to a ministerial decree of June 2017. I believe that they could be brought up to the legislative level, as indeed all the countries whose social security systems take care of the LDCs have done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u19	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u20	Our colleagues suggest restricting the conservation of supernumerary embryos, and I support this approach. The number of embryos stored in the various freezers in France exceeds 220000, which is excessive. But this evolution would not be easily possible according to the procedure proposed: vitrification and preservation of the oocytes, then, each time, fusion of these oocytes with sperm, frozen or freshly emitted, then immediate re-implantation of the embryos as needed, for attempts of in vitro fertilization that succeed only once in five on average... For technical reasons that I cannot detail here, these repeated operations face difficulties. This does not mean that this will never be possible, but simply that today we are still forced to go through the maintenance of embryo freezing. We could reduce the number, without any inconvenience for women – because this is the main objective, that of not repeating ovarian stimulation – if embryo research was more effective and if only embryos with a chance of being viable were retained and implanted, for example, by removing the carriers of too large chromosomal abnormalities. This will be the subject of further discussion on this text. In any event, ladies and gentlemen, we must agree to a minimum of embryo research so that in the future it is no longer necessary to keep so many supernumerary embryos, which will never be used but which represent an additional possibility for women who are difficult to get pregnant. [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] Our opinion will therefore be unfavourable for the first three amendments. On the other hand, Mr Gouttefarde's amendment is a little different. I suggest that the author withdraw it for the time being, knowing that it can be re-examined in the next few years, as soon as the in vitro fertilization rate exceeds the current figures. It is now 20%: when it reaches 50%, we will be able to adopt this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u21	We'll see about that in two years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u22	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u23	I will begin by responding to Ms. Annie Genevard, who is asking me about the missions of the Biomedicine Agency. In fact, it documents this issue in its medical and scientific report, as part of its general mission to monitor the activity of MPA. This is therefore not included in the activity report, but in the medical and scientific report. With regard to Mr Breton's amendment to prohibit cryoconservation of embryos and to limit the number of embryos fertilised by an attempt to fertilize in vitro, I would point out that this objective of reducing as much as possible the number of frozen embryos is already included in the law. At present, however, the results of the techniques and the taking into account of their benefits and risks do not meet its demand, which is to ban freezing altogether. Every attempt must have enough embryos to obtain viable embryos, which are transferable to women. If we did not do so and used a single embryo each time, we would subject women to repeated cycles of ovarian stimulation, and thus to a considerable medical risk. In addition, frozen embryos may be used for later pregnancies, if the couple wishes a second or even a third birth. For the time being, therefore, we wish to maintain the current framework, which seems to us to be balanced in the light of the state of science and our capabilities. We focus on practices and processes that limit the number of embryos. This is reflected in article L. 2141-1 of the Public Health Code: the couple whose embryos have been preserved cannot benefit from a further attempt at in vitro fertilization as long as they still have frozen embryos, unless they suffer from a quality problem. We are therefore against this amendment. The aim of Mr Gouttefarde's amendment is to limit the number of embryos transferred when determining the transfer arrangements by considering non-exhaustive criteria of age and pathology. However, in the area of embryonic transfer, we have precise and controlled practices, already regulated by good practice rules and controlled by the Biomedicine Agency. In particular, I will quote the provisions on embryo transfer in the June 30, 2017 Order: "The transfer modalities are based on the patient's clinical data and the prior assessment of the transfer possibilities. [...] Addressed upstream of the attempt, the number of embryos to be transferred is again discussed jointly between the couple, the clinician and the biologist. This number depends on the cleavage kinetics and embryo morphology, the results of any previous attempts, the patient's age and history. Taking into account the risks and complications of multiple pregnancies, monoembryonic transfer should be given priority whenever the age of the woman and the quality of the embryos permit. Beyond two embryos transferred, the reasons are justified in the couple's medical record and the couple is clearly informed of the risks associated with multiple pregnancies. We therefore feel that this amendment is already satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u24	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 1997.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u25	This is a clarification amendment aimed at bringing the wording of paragraph 3 closer to reality. In the current version, paragraph 3 refers to "any couple made up of a man and a woman or two women or any unmarried woman". I propose to replace the words "unmarried woman" with the words "alone woman", which are more in line with the reality of things. Indeed, an unmarried woman may very well be pacing or living together, either with a man or with another woman: in the current writing, she would have the possibility of using the AMP with third party donors. While we want to pass a law of transparency, a law of truth, admit that this situation, in which a couple would see one of its members carry out an MPA with third-party donor, would be a little disturbing! Amendment No 1997 is therefore intended to clarify matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u26	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u27	You may recall, Mr Fuchs, that this matter was discussed in committee. Many of us wondered why paragraph 3 used the term "unmarried woman" rather than the term "alone woman", which referred more precisely to what we were thinking. However, the guardian of the seals has explained very well to us that, from a legal point of view, it is the married or unmarried nature of the woman that matters, particularly with regard to paternal filiation. Indeed, a wife's husband is the presumed father of her child, regardless of the actual parent. Unmarried men, on the other hand, do not benefit from this presumption of paternity: if they can recognize their paternity, the latter is not presumed. That is why the current wording is the most legally relevant – but perhaps the keeper of the seals will be able to give you more explanations on this point. You also refer, in your summary presentation, to the issue of medical and psychological assessment of applicants. Here too, your concern is satisfied with the current wording of the bill: a clinical-biological team evaluates all the concerns of the applicant couple or woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u28	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u29	Indeed, we have already had this debate. I understand, Mr rapporteur, the arguments that you have just referred to and that Mrs Garde des Seales has developed quite extensively in committee. I understand the legal issue, but I am more in terms of actual practice, civil society, doctors and couples. There is a gap between the legal concept and what is being done in practice: we should therefore change our perspective and refer to usages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u30	The Minister of Justice, the guardian of the seals, has the floor to give the Government's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u31	The rapporteur recalled the arguments which I have put forward at length in committee. Unfortunately, we are amending a legal text here: we are therefore obliged to refer to legal concepts. As the Council of State explains very precisely, marriage carries with it a method of establishing filiation and the consequences that are special. If you keep your amendment, honourable Member, I will give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u32	I have before me four amendments, Nos 2123, 2214, 2569 and 1994, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2123 and 2214 are identical. Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2123.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u33	The purpose of this amendment is to reintroduce the concept of parental project in Article L. 2141-2 of the Public Health Code. Indeed, as our rapporteur rightly pointed out earlier, medical assistance for procreation does not help to treat the infertility of the sterile man or woman, but rather to carry out a parental project thanks to a gamete donation. In addition, the use of MPA does not always meet a strictly medical logic, since in 10 to 15% of cases no medical cause of infertility is identified. The concept of a parenting project was included in the law before 2011, when the legislator considered it to be a secondary consideration for the medical dimension of the MPA and therefore removed it from the text. Today, while this bill removes the restrictive medical criteria for access to the AGP, it seems appropriate to reintroduce the concept of a parenting project at the heart of the scheme. Moreover, this concept is already included in articles L. 2141-3 and L. 2141-4 of the Code of Public Health. It seems to me to sum up all the discussions we have had in committee, where we have all talked a lot about parenting, while providing an answer to all those who are concerned that the MPA is turning into a whim. Indeed, a parenting project is something that is built, accompanied and evaluated. That is why I think it is interesting to reintroduce this concept into the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u34	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support Amendment No. 2214.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u35	I will withdraw my amendment in favour of Mr Gérard's amendment, which is identical. This demand is indeed relevant: the concept of a parenting project, which dates back to 1994, is becoming more relevant as we extend the LDC to different types of families. Let me quote Professor Louis Bujan, who for six years chaired the Fédération française des CECOS – centres d'études et de conservation des eggs et du sperme humaines: "Imagining a parenting project means planning for the future. He was talking about the future of children. Yes, in these different types of families, the future of children depends in part on the project of the parents who use the LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u36	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 2569.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u37	The aim is to denounce once again the disconnection between the use of MPA and a situation of infertility other than social, i.e. a presumption of infertility, even temporary, in heterosexual couples. Obviously, to open the MPA to women's couples and single women, it must be disconnected from a medical justification. As a result, this disconnection, which is black-on-white in the bill, also applies to heterosexual couples. Thus, it will be possible to see a heterosexual couple using an LDC not only to prevent the transmission of a disease, but also, tomorrow, to choose a child's characteristic. In the current state of law, this practice is prohibited, but since the CECOS carry out gamete apparatus, nothing will prevent us from crossing this ethical boundary tomorrow. In a report broadcast yesterday on a continuous news channel – I will not advertise for LCI – a couple of women testified to the difficulties they had had, to the journey of the fighter they had followed to resort to a LDC with third-party donor abroad. You'll tell me that a testimony is worth what it's worth, that it's probably an isolated case, but their situation was quite touching. A little girl was born, now four years old. These women obviously welcomed the new right that will be opened in France, but they still intend, for the second child they wish, to use a LDC abroad, in this case in Denmark, in order to be able to find the same donor as for their eldest daughter... How the genetic bond may not be meaningless, even when the parenting project is based on will and not on biological criteria! In any case, the biological likelihood comes in the choice of this couple not to use the new right opened in France, but to go to Denmark where they can choose the characteristics of the donor. All of this leads me to believe that the disappearance of the medical criterion for using the AGP is the door open to such applications. What will be the position of the AMP centres and the CECOS on this topic? That remains to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u38	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 1994.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u39	My amendment follows the same logic. In particular, it aims to re-introduce the reference to infertility, which corresponds to the greatest number of situations we will see in the years to come. It should not be suggested, by using the term "LDCs for all" and deleting the reference to infertility, that the MPA would be something easy and that it would be enough to come to any centre to benefit from it. As we have seen, and as will be said during the debates, this is a long, medicalized, complicated and traumatizing journey. That is why I believe it is necessary to retain the term "infertility" in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u40	Mr rapporteur, you gave an opinion in favour of Amendment No 2123 and withdrew your amendment No 2214. What is the Committee's opinion on Amendments Nos 2569 and 1994?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u41	Disadvantaged, as they are intended to limit the use of MPA to medically diagnosed infertility situations. First of all, this formulation is more reductive than current practice, since today a heterosexual couple who have failed to procreate can resort to MPA, even without medically established fertility abnormalities. Moreover, in the context of this bill, this would mean that the use of the AGP would only be possible if the woman alone or the two women in a couple were sterile. It would be strange if they had to demonstrate their infertility in order to have access to the AMP! I therefore call for the withdrawal or rejection of these amendments to limit the use of MPA to an established fertility disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u42	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u43	Mr Gérard, you would like to reintroduce the concept of a parental project from the article which lays down the conditions for medical assistance in procreation. It is true that this concept is enshrined in the Public Health Code and that the MPA is clearly intended to respond to a parenting project. The Government issued a wisdom opinion, considering that this parenting project could be misinterpreted. With regard to Mr Brindeau's amendment to link the MPA to a medical necessity and Mr Fuchs' amendment to the criterion of infertility, I agree with the rapporteur that no medical necessity is already required for the use of the MPA: it is enough to declare a difficulty in having a child after one year, without even having to provide proof of having tried to have a child. In any case, the search for infertility or infertility is systematic when applying for an MPA. It will be for heterosexual couples as for women. Mr Brindeau's amendment is therefore contrary to the spirit of the law and we are against it. As for the criterion of infertility, neither is it necessary since there will be a medical assessment. Mr Fuchs' amendment is therefore satisfactory and we ask for its withdrawal, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u44	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u45	Every time I see one of your amendments coming, I'm worried, rapporteur! There is also a semantic problem: the notion of parenting is blurred, and the minister herself acknowledges that it can be misinterpreted. So I wonder what your intention is – and I am benevolent. Who will evaluate the parenting project? If it becomes the foundation of filiation, the alpha and the omega, the justification of an automatic favorable response to the will to have a child, why would it not be valid tomorrow for a single man or a couple of men who would have a parenting project?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u47	Why say it here? You have no more doubt, have you told us: I still have, I confess, especially when I listen to you. You said again this week that in terms of gestation for others – GPA – the "ethical GPA" was not contrary to our values but that French society was not yet ready for it: I wonder if this amendment would not tend to prepare it for it. You recognize the parental project, at will, an all-power that can prove to be a fragility. Indeed, a project changes, a will changes, but when the embryo is there, it is there! We take it as it is. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] A child is much more than the parents' project. The children, by the way, have a lot of surprises for us. A child is not a due, even with the LDC, and it would be dangerous to let him think. A child must be received, not obtained. When a couple comes to tell you the good news, does he tell you "we have a parenting project"? No, "we are waiting for a child"! It would be more respectful of the child in all its dimensions not to make the parental project the alpha and the omega and to give the child its full place as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u48	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u49	I also wonder about this term parenting project and about disqualifying the medical approach again, under the pretext that it is not a situation of infertility. When a couple cannot have a child, the absence of evidence of medical infertility is not evidence of the absence of an underlying disorder. This medical approach is fundamental to my conception of the LDC. The parenting project goes far beyond purely social or societal considerations, the dimension of the couple, of love. Making kids, it goes further than that. An evolutionary Darwinian impulse pushes us to reproduce, so that our reason, our emotion justify things, pose a rational and reasoned reasoning a priori, and these things go far beyond the restrictive framework of a parenting project. You already see risks of drift in what Pascal Brindeau told us: satisfied with the genetics of a donor, we would like another child of the same lineage! The issue of genetics still seems to be importing in some cases, including for couples who want one child per LDC. It is the door open to certain choices, certain eugenic drifts, which one does not accept at all in case of adoption: the child is a surprise, he arrives with his qualities, his defects, his possible hereditary diseases, and one takes the same risk when one makes a child in a natural way. There are hazards and accepting them is part of life. It's very different from a merchant's approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u50	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u51	It is problematic to reduce a child to a parenting project, to a product that is intended to have certain characteristics, according to a technical concept of the production of children that is actually far from what it should be to care for the child in a family. What's parenting? I would like you, Madam Minister, to tell us your answer. To me, being a parent is based on sexual otherness, especially the body dimension I mentioned earlier. If it's only a project, what will prevent a single woman, a single man or a couple of men from being a parent? What's your answer? Once you have passed the principle that the MPA is intended to respond to a parenting project, it will serve as a basis for priority constitutional issues that will demand its application to all in the name of equality! The concept of a parenting project is not based on any physical reality but solely on goodwill, individual desire. I am not agitating fantasies: associations to which we asked the question in the context of the fact-finding mission told us that we were in favour of multiparentality. The rapporteur had even said that the more parents, the more the child would be protected! That is not our conception. Our conception of parenting is based on sexual otherness: what is yours?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u52	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u53	One understands very well why some would like the notion of infertility to be retained absolutely in the law: one could demand a couple of women, none of whom would be infertile, to manage without LDCs. My group supports the opening of a new right, independent of the reasons that previously justified the use of the LDC. We assume our will to ensure that this new right is unconditionally open to all women. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As for the parental project... It's true that I don't remember having a big debate with my wife about our "parental project" – and we wanted it, this child! But if there is one circumstance in which the child is desired more than in any other, it is precisely on the occasion of a LDC, because one does not engage in such a procedure if one is not afflicted with a furious desire for a child. The love of the child even exists in its conception. Therefore, no one can question the validity of the parenting project for those embarking on an LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u54	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u55	Sorry to tell you, but since 1967 and the legalization of the pill, when you have a child, it's often that we discussed it and decided to dispense with contraception! That's a parenting project. Adopting someone is also a parenting project. The LDC is open to all, yes, it is a parenting project. What is a parenting project, if not a legal term to say "we want a child and we will raise it with love"? It's just that. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To challenge the opening of the LDC to all women, you tell us that there is a need for a man and a woman, that there is a sexual division of roles. But can you tell us what the role of a father is, what is the role of a woman? I'm waiting for you to explain it to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u56	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u57	I am very touched by the amendment which recognises the parental project, and I have heard Mr Saulignac say that this new right must not be conditioned. My great legal fear is that this notion of parental project will become a condition that restricts access to this right. If this concept is included in the law, it means that someone – the doctor, the multidisciplinary team – will necessarily be able to appreciate it, will be allowed to judge that the elements of a parenting project are not combined. There is therefore a risk of being faced with a dispute over the parenting project. Adoption is not conditional on a parenting project, and the law has always taken care not to qualify it, precisely so as not to leave too much to the subjectivity in this approach. I understand the nobility of your intentions, but as a lawyer I understand the perverse effects and for this reason I will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u58	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u59	I confess that I did not understand very well the development of Coralie Dubost. If I follow his reasoning, there will be no refusal to apply for an AMP since it is the parenting project that bases the right to access it. But that is not what the text says as it stands: it maintains an obligation to accompany the use of the LDC, whether it is a couple or a woman alone, in particular to assess the parenting project, the capacities, not only medical but also psychological. The multidisciplinary teams responsible for reproductive medical assistance include psychologists. Thus, a parenting project does not automatically open up access to the LDC. I therefore do not see what is opposed to this being included in the text at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u60	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u61	Again, my amendment reintroduces a concept that existed before 2011 and was never subject to interpretation. It was simply at the time to reaffirm the medical dimension of things. The human dimension must now be reintroduced. This concept enshrines a project and basically does not remove anything. This is a general principle, not a condition: the text also mentions the evaluations and the support of projects by a multidisciplinary team. But the presence of this principle, knowing the varying geometry practices that are taking place in some CECOS, makes it possible to prevent this medical dimension from being opposed to the parenting project of women's or single women's couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u62	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u63	I am struck that we are trying to get my colleagues to say anything except what they wanted to say, and that we are not answering simple but essential questions, because they have very long-term legal consequences. Is the concept of parental project limited to heterosexual couples, female couples and single women? Why should it not extend as soon as the law is passed to men's couples, which would imply an opening of the GPA? Can you answer this simple question, and stop bypassing the subject by saying that a parenting project only concerns heterosexual couples? [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Smile]] We never intended to say who the good fathers were! Our colleague Bastien Lachaud asks us to explain the respective roles of the father and the mother. To answer this question, I refer you to the Minister: the National Centre for the Territorial Public Service, a public institution, offers training to all officers entitled "The role and place of the father in the family." The aim of this training is, among other things, "to better perceive the interest of supporting the father's involvement with the child", "to deepen certain problems experienced by fathers" and "to question the place given to fathers in reception structures and practices". Be well, she even intends to give "a historical reminder on the question of authority (paternal authority and joint authority)" and draw "perspectives to give more room to the fathers in the structures, in order to make the paternal function take place"! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As far as we are concerned, we are entering this debate with great good faith. At least try to answer our legitimate questions, Madam Minister, and to resolve some of your contradictions as quickly as possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u64	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2123.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u65	No! He wasn't adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u66	Mr. President! We have to vote by sitting up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u67	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] The amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u68	Mr. President, this is a scandal! If we start like this, it's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u69	Why the challenge? If I tell you that the amendment has been adopted, it has been adopted. The vote took place. Let's move on. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u70	Mr. President, this is really outrageous. The vote in favour was barely higher than the opposition in the majority group, and for our part we have voted very broadly against this amendment. Honestly, there's a problem to be solved. It would only take one vote per sitting and standing to check.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u71	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Let's continue the discussion of the amendments, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u72	We're not gonna make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u73	The vote on Amendment No 2123 was recorded and proclaimed. It is therefore acquired. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u74	I ask for a two-minute suspension of the sitting to bring our group together. We must not start like this. This amendment completely distorts the text. We're on paragraph 3, we're rewriting everything, it's a major subject. Let's vote by sitting and standing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u75	The vote was largely against!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u76	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u77	The meeting was resumed. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 14, 113, 333, 592, 881 and 1690. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u78	It aims to reverse the extension of reproductive health assistance to single women. We have already mentioned the problem of sexual otherness in women's couples. But here we are dealing with another question, the possibility for a single woman to decide to enter a "parental" project. I will be told that adoption already exists for single people. But adoption is of another nature: it allows one or two parents to be given to a child, while medical assistance in procreation gives a child to one or two parents. The parallel, therefore, does not hold, since adoption is equivalent to repairing a situation for a child and not creating it. In the case of the AMP, this unique bond that will be created, this almost obsession, between the single mother and the child will be dangerous for the construction of the latter's identity. The child psychiatrists we have heard warned us about this: we can discuss the consequences for a child to be raised by a couple of women, the studies being unreliable, but in the case of single women, there is strictly no study. I am referring here to the opinion of the CCNE. That is why we propose to remove the possibility of extending the MPA to single women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u79	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u80	I will add two arguments. First, the comparison between MPA and adoption is not for historical reasons. It was in 1923 that single women had the opportunity to adopt, while World War I had caused the disappearance or death of about 1.3 million soldiers, leaving 600,000 widowed women and 1.1 million war orphans. In this context, adoption was a way of caring for the children of the heroes who died for the homeland. Secondly, in addition to the psychological consequences highlighted by the psychiatrists and psychologists we have interviewed, social reasons stand in the way of the LDC for women alone. Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, you have insisted a great deal on the precariousness of single women. I cannot hear the argument that single women with a LDC project generally have the financial means to do so. I find this argument deeply shocking. Most single-parent families have a low median monthly standard of living. I do not teach you, Madam Minister, since your social policy gives priority to single-parent families, on the grounds that they are more vulnerable than others to insecurity. Nor do I accept the argument that the LDC open to single women is a single parenthood chosen, while women who are alone as a result of separation or widowhood would experience a single parentality suffered. This distinction does not hold: a woman who decides to separate from her husband or spouse chooses one parent, which she considers to be the best solution. This is an essential point for us, on which we should have multiple opportunities to insist during the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u81	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 333.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u82	It aims to eliminate from the draft law the extension of the LDC to include women's couples and single women. The reason for this is very simple – and it seems that the subject has been debated within the Government, since the custody of seals has repeatedly indicated that this law is not a law of equality, while the Minister of Solidarity and Health has repeatedly affirmed the opposite. The substance of the matter is of a legal nature: since you have extended the LDC to include women's couples, I do not see what legal argument you will refuse it to men's couples in a second stage. As many jurists strongly pointed out during the hearings, the principle of equality must be applied. The extension of the LDC to women's couples will inevitably open the door to GPA under the principle of equality, through a priority issue of constitutionality or other legal means. The Government therefore shows hypocrisy when it asserts loudly that GPA is excluded: in reality, the inclusion in the law of an extension of the LDC to women's couples and single women will ipso facto, in a second stage, lead to the arrival of GPA. You will not be able to oppose it legally. Once again, you trigger a domino effect that you will not be able to stop. This is what we wish to prevent, because it is the commodification of the body that is in progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u83	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 592.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u84	In my speech this afternoon, I recalled how much the otherness between the father and the mother was necessary for the child. In response, President Faure explained that there was some sort of alternativeity, and that in a couple of women, one could assume a role of love and proximity, while the other could play a role more strongly marked by authority. I do not agree with this logic at all, but at least it exists. On the other hand, in the case of a child who would only have to know a mother – an outlying construction from this point of view of the search for otherness – President Faure's argument falls. Let's at least avoid this additional difficulty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u85	But it already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u86	It is not a question of attacking lesbian couples, but of asking themselves the question of single women who make a single child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u87	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 881.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u88	Mr President, your responsibility is great on these serious matters. I am not asking for a further suspension of the sitting because it would be deduced from our speaking time, when you have imposed on us the scheduled legislative time. However, in a special committee, and as the chair can testify, serious matters were played with two votes. We respect the results of the votes, but we still have to take the time to count. The subjects we deal with have nothing annoid – medical assistance in post-mortem procreation, extension of pre-implantation diagnosis, reception of the partner's oocytes, conservation of gametes by private for-profit centers... – and have aroused extremely tense debates in special commission. [[Applause on some of the banks of the LR Group. – Mrs AgnesThillapplauditedalso]] Since we are preparing for several days of debate, I urge you, Mr President, to take the time to count the result of the vote – and we will respect it. When the outcome of a vote is clearly not the one you announce, it would be your great pleasure to acknowledge this error and to put the disposition back to the vote. In this case you do not accept it, I take note of it, but I urge you to increase your vigilance in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u89	I take it that Amendment No 592 is being defended... Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1690.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u90	It is clear today that there is no consensus on the extension of the LDC, "in particular", as the CCNE points out, "on the consequences for the child of an institutionalization of the absence of a father, thus of the male-feminine otherness in the diversity of its psychic construction, but also on the possible risks of increased commodification of the human body. » Indeed, this request to open must be confronted with the current scarcity of gametes, which could lead to an extension of deadlines or a breach of the principle of free donations. That must be done! This could open up opportunities for the commodification of human body products and challenge the altruistic foundations of the French health system. I'm not saying it, it's the CCNE. These prospects have led a minority of Committee members to propose, within the framework of Opinion 126, the maintenance of the status quo in this area. And you decided to change the presidency... Participants in the general states of bioethics are also very reserved: more than 80 per cent of the participants in events in the regions were opposed to the expansion of the LDC, as were 89.7 per cent of the written contributions on the website. That too has been swept away. The enlargement of the LDC therefore presents ethical challenges that we must not ignore. The LDC, let us recall, is a set of medical techniques; But it is not because of a medical problem that women alone or couples of women cannot have a child. The desire of a child would be an abuse: it would be a diversion of medicine to claims, desires. Society is not responsible for infertility: social infertility does not exist. What worries me is the deviousness of national solidarity which wants to put people who suffer from pathological infertility and people who are not sick on the same level. Living single, living with another woman are not pathologies. I do not understand that you are considering paying the LDC the same amount in these cases. This amendment is therefore intended to delete the words "or two women or any unmarried woman". Finally, I draw your attention to the institutional lie in which the French live: they were told that there would be the PACS – civil pact of solidarity – but no homosexual marriage, homosexual marriage but no LDCs, the LDC but no GPA. How can we believe in the public speech that assures us today that there will be no commodification of bodies, while everyone, in any case on your benches, has changed their mind about the LDC? [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] Even the Prime Minister had made it very clear that there would be no commodification, no LDCs and even less GPA. However, this text does not create any legal barriers against GPA. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But in fact, once the criterion of pathology for the use of the LDC has been abolished, there is no longer any limit and I do not see how what you propose to us today would help avoid GPA tomorrow. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u92	These identical amendments are intended to exclude women alone from the use of the LDC, which is the very purpose of the draft law. Mrs Genevard, the monoparentality suffered and the use of a single woman in the LDC are two very different situations, and it is very difficult to see them as identical. This is not a socio-economic level but a project developed with relatives, family, friends, discussed with the medical team, organized, planned, prepared. The path of the LDC is long, and when the child is finally born, he is already loved and expected for a long time. Nothing to do with the uncertainty, the imbalance, the difficulties that may arise in case of single parenting. So I urge you to silence your fears. You say there are no studies in this field, but that is not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u93	Look at the CCNE!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u94	The Academy of Medicine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u95	Anglo-American studies have compared the development of children born by LDCs to single women, on the one hand, and couples, on the other, on the other hand, regardless of their development: their development is strictly identical. We can and must therefore be reassured. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion to these amendments, which would empty the text of the proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u97	Let us be clear: the effect of these amendments would be to reserve the LDC for heterosexual couples. All your arguments, in any case that of Mrs Genevard, focused on single-parent families, but it was to blur the cards: the purpose of the amendments is simply to exclude women's couples and women alone from the LDC. Mr Hetzel told us about a drift towards GPA, which is involved in the principle of equality. But all legal analyses clearly show that the principle of equality cannot be invoked: men and women are not equal before procreation. A law of bioethics is not a law of equality, it evaluates each medical technique in accordance with the ethical principles that are put into tension. The LDC for women does not put any ethical principles into tension; GPA, whether practised by heterosexual or homosexual couples, immediately runs counter to the principles of non-commercialization and non-patrimoniality of the human body and the dignity of the person. Sliding is impossible, and the argument does not hold. In addition, Mrs Boyer's remarks contain semantic slippages that make me terribly uncomfortable. We are talking about the LDC for all women: at no stage does this raise the question of the commodification of the human body, which you spend your time invoking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u99	That's a fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u100	You mentioned it twice in your remarks. But, Mrs Boyer, we must be vigilant: if we want a respectful and calmed debate, we must not make everyone believe that there is a risk of the human body being merchandised when single women resort to the LDC, using sperm from a free and anonymous donation in France. I cannot allow the idea that there is a trade issue behind the LDC for women: it is not true, there is no money at the key, we do not pay the donors. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] And as you mentioned the scarcity of gametes, I would point out that the LDC for women needs only sperm, and there is no rarity in this area. Only oocytes are on a waiting list, but this has nothing to do with the LDC. The argument of the rarity of gametes therefore does not hold, there is no difficulty in finding donors, and it was good to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u101	The lifting of anonymity will weaken them: it is already the case abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u102	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u103	Mrs Boyer, Members of Parliament Hetzel and Breton, like my colleague Agnès Buzyn, I observe – and I am surprised – that every amendment is a pretext for you to invoke the risk of a slide towards the GPA. Mr. Hetzel is right to speak of a domino effect rather than of a butterfly effect, judging by the systematic repetition of your arguments... I would like to reiterate that the scheme we are proposing does not pose a risk of slipping towards GPA. This is the reason, even if I can imagine that you would refuse to hear it: the principle of equality cannot be invoked at all. Agnès Buzyn told you again, and you knew it very well, Congressman Hetzel. In terms of reproduction, heterosexual couples, lesbian couples and men's couples are not in the same situation. The principle of equality cannot therefore play, there is no risk of slippage. Moreover, we are only in Article 1 of the text. Subsequently, article 4 will clearly state that it is not sufficient to be a couple of women to establish a filiation. Three other elements are required: medically assisted reproduction, a legal condition of filiation, a parenting project, regardless of the name given to it, and a delivery is required. Without these elements, filiation will not be established. By definition, however, you will not find these three elements in a couple of men. Finally, as my colleague has said, the GPA would contravene fundamental principles, enshrined in our legal texts: unavailability of the state of persons, non-marketization of the body, etc. For all of these reasons, it is impossible to argue that the provisions we present involve a risk of slipping to the GPA. Mr Breton, I would add that for a long time the filiation in our right has been based on sexual otherness. But since 2013, it has ceased to be indispensable for the establishment of filiation, since married homosexual couples can resort to adoption. As sexual otherness is no longer a condition of filiation, it is not necessary to use it to exclude the spectrum of GPA. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] I wanted to give a clear answer to this recurring question from the GPA, and I know that we will still have an opportunity to come back to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u104	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u105	I would like to go back to the arguments put forward by both Minister Agnès Buzyn and the keeper of the seals. In order to dispel the fears of our colleagues about a shift towards GPA, we are told that the LDC does not, in the words of the Minister, run counter to the ethical principles of France, unlike GPA. Prior to 1993, artificial insemination was permitted for single women. For ethical reasons, LDCs were denied access. In 2011 there was a question of opening up medically assisted procreation to women alone or in a couple. In the name of ethics, this path has been closed. I just want to make you understand that ethical barriers can evolve over time. You will answer that the principle of the unavailability of the human body is opposed to its commodification, inherent in GPA. However, did the rapporteur Jean-Louis Touraine not mention in a special committee, together with other Members, the notion of ethical GPA, a kind of contract both moral and written between the surrogate mother and the people supporting the parental project, without any consideration, financial or of any other nature? He suggested that this type of solution could be considered tomorrow or the day after. [[Mrs. Valérie Boyer applauds]] You cannot dispel these fears by relying on the only ethical barrier. You need to find something else. In fact, the opening of the LDC to women alone or as a couple is politically motivated, not just ethically.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u106	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u107	We need to take a step back, on this subject where everyone has only good intentions. I hear the arguments of the supporters of the LDC for all, but I have already said that there are forces at work greater than that of child desire and love: the forces that ensure the survival of humanity. And among these forces, there is a trend that has never really been extinguished: that of eugenics, which, let's not forget, was left at the beginning of the 20th century and which led to many abuses before the Second World War, in very frequent countries, Western countries: selection, sterilization of the disabled... Some ideas never died, not even in 1941, when Julian Huxley, whose brother Aldous wrote The Best of the Worlds, declared eugenicism a religion of the future. In short, the good intentions in which we drape ourselves do not protect ourselves from possible slippages. Let us keep this in mind. When birth and reproduction are medicalized, the last thing that placed the poor and the rich on an equal footing around the world is the ability to reproduce. Sterility strikes without distinguishing between the poor and the rich. Medicalization, the presence of science in procreation, inevitably makes it possible to slide. I invite you to think about it and to go beyond the only consideration of love between two beings, even if it is highly commendable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u108	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u109	It seems to me that we've been going around in circles for a while. Let's try to move on. I am very careful, as far as we are concerned, to ensure that our arguments are coherent and well-founded. If it turns out that the arguments put forward today to expand the LDC would lead to a legalization of GPA in a few years' time, that would be a problem for me. But I don't think so. Ministers explained that the purpose of this bill was to expand access to a technique, that of reproductive health assistance. You are mixing this debate with that of the GPA, another process with a completely different framework and whose principle is deeply affected by many ethical values – we may, it seems to me, broadly agree on this. As I said in committee, your arguments to make sure that the slide will not take place are not words in the air: you have clearly demonstrated that what underpins the expansion of the LDC today will not be the basis for the legalization of the GPA tomorrow. Our group is deeply opposed to gestation for other people, for reasons that we all share here largely, even if some opinions differ. We do not wish, ever, to see the instrumentalization of the body of others, whether it takes a market value or not – because at the end of the day, the transaction will necessarily be marketable. On the other hand, I note that in our debate, the notions of parenting and procreation are closely intertwined. Of course, there are links between the two, but the confusion is developing. The questions of parenthood have been partly resolved in previous debates and are not at the heart of the debate, even if they may be raised on specific issues, such as the issue of legal filiation. Article 1e in any case is clearly related to procreation, and there is no reason to convoke other notions. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In short, at the present stage of the discussion, the proposed measures do not seem to undermine the ethical principles we hold dear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u110	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u111	Ms Buzyn recalled that the proposed amendments tended to exclude women in lesbian or single couples from the use of medically assisted procreation. We will not vote for them because we intend to grant this simple right to all women, regardless of their marital status or sexual orientation. However, I would like to return to the situation of single women, who I hope will be able to use the LDC tomorrow. From this perspective, I invite you to measure your criticism. I recall that one in five families is single parents today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u112	Wonderful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u113	We all know them. These children, whom no one points fingers at here, do not suffer from any difficulties of development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u114	How do you know?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u115	I'm just talking about the daily life, the single parent families I meet, the seventy scientific studies that attest that the only pitfall these children can encounter is that of society's gaze on them. Let's keep it right and trust women. Above all, let us not confuse a single woman who could resort tomorrow to reproductive health care with a single parent family. Single parenthood is often experienced: two people were carrying a parenting project, that of educating a child and transmitting love to him, but a tragedy arises, or each one's journey changes, and one plunges into the unexpected and disarray. On the other hand, a single woman who uses the LDC is not necessarily isolated. She can live in a supportive environment, or even already be a mother. Let us not caricaturate the situation of this woman. Finally, I would like to reply to Mr Le Fur, who is concerned about a slip, a domino effect towards GPA. On an exceptional basis, I would like to express myself here in a partisan way, because an alleged hypocrisy of the Republic on the move and of the Government is denounced, with regard to the GPA. There are no hidden objectives. We have always been very clear, even before we get to the responsibilities: the GPA represents a red line that must not be crossed. We will not allow this practice. This is not discriminatory, since GPA is prohibited, and will remain so for all men and women, regardless of their sexual orientation or marital status. The ban is strict. On the other hand, I wonder where this obsession is about the fact that GPA would be a "hidden project" for the majority. I read a few days ago in Today in France that a distinguished senator, who chairs the Social Affairs Committee and belongs to your political family, had tabled, with some 20 of his colleagues, a bill to legalize pregnancy for others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u116	We won't rule it out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u117	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, be assured of our full sincerity when we promise not to legalize GPA. I hope that your suspicion is not a way to resolve a dispute with your honourable senators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u118	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u119	You said, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that men could not benefit from the LDC. I see once again that you forget transgender people, but we will have the opportunity to return. I will not repeat the argument developed around the GPA but I will dwell on the role of the father. Mr Di Filippo having left without answering me, I do not know what definition you give. For centuries, patriarchy has reaffirmed a sexual division of tasks within the family. To women love and diapers, to men intellectual occupations and authority. Is this division of labour that you intend to carry on?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u120	Don't make us say what we didn't say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u121	But then tell us, Mr. Bazin, what exactly is the father's role in the family? [[Applause on several benches]] Honestly, I don't see the difference between what I do with our child as a young father today, and what my girlfriend does.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u122	It's not a question of "tasks" to share!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] If you are able to explain to us what you mean when you talk about the role of the father and the urgent need for a paternal – not masculine – figure in the family, tell us! What does a father do on a daily basis that a mother doesn't do?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u124	It is not a question of "doing" but of "being"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u125	We come to a new series of identical amendments, Nos 15, 114, 334, 593, 729, 885, 1100, 1616, 1691, 2541 and 2570. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u126	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I want to go back to what our colleague Bastien Lachaud has just said. Being a father or a mother is not just a function: it is the order of being.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u127	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u128	Pregnancy is something a woman knows, and neither you nor I will know. You like me will never know the birth; Our wives knew him. We don't know breastfeeding, neither you nor me. All this goes through the reality of the body, even if, after that, it is made a social construction. Originally, there is something of the order of the carnal, of the body. It's not a function, it's not something that's written. You, you are trying to deconstruct this, but you cannot deconstruct the body. Your reasoning – on gender, for example – comes up against the reality of the body. The body is binding on us. It hinders those who want to free themselves from all limits, the supporters of the all-power of the individual, but it imposes itself on us. The body catches up with them, because it's a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u129	You're talking about women's bodies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u130	Then we do what we want from his body. You can live well with your body or live badly, but you must first receive it. You, you can't stand us having to get something. The amendment seeks to reverse the extension provided for in the text of reproductive health assistance to single women. This proposal puts us once again in the perspective of a "parental project". In this approach, being a parent would be limited to a project: having a child. Well, no! The child is not limited to a project. What is only a project becomes a product for which all configurations are possible: you can choose its characteristics, the size of the gamete donor... You give a single person the opportunity to say: I want a child, I'm entitled to it! You don't base kinship on body reality. I speak well of the kinship which is of the order of being, and not of a "parentity" which corresponds to a function. We are defending a position that is not yours: we do not agree. What do you mean? At least we can debate. What matters is to explain what filiation is based on. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] For you, it is a purely social construction. We believe that it has a body, an emotional and a social aspect, and that these three pillars are necessary. We would like to know the Government's approach to filiation. I confess that on this subject, our questions remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u131	Amendment No 114 by Mrs Annie Genevard is being defended. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 334.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u132	It aims to limit the expansion of the LDC. This is a very specific subject since, in the government project, there is a desire for an extension, on the one hand, to women's couples and, on the other hand, to women alone. These two cases are obviously not identical. In the first, there is a form of otherness. She is not sexual, but she exists well, whereas she is not present in the case of single women. As we know, because many studies have shown, there are a number of vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities that affect women alone. You will tell me that today many women are raising their children alone. However, for many of them, this situation is being experienced – as a result, it is also being experienced by children. Can it be considered today, taking into account the best interests of the child, that it is reasonable that the law – I say the law, that is, the community as a consequence – establishes in principle the existence of a child with one parent, in a context where the status of a single parent has been chosen ex ante? In any case, we can see that we are thus creating, ex nihilo, a situation of fragility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u133	Ex nihilo?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u134	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Do we collectively want to take on this? Do we measure all the effects of this evolution? I imagine, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that you will tell us that this will not be the case, but, at the hearings, a number of lawyers warned us: according to them, the state takes a risk, because it could see to it, within twenty years, young people who will consider that, in fact, the law has deprived them of a father, and who will seek compensation for it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We consider us to be whistleblowers. You're playing sorcerer apprentices. You are mistaken, because the best interests of the child in such a situation are surely not preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u135	Why don't you go talk to some kids who are in this case?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u136	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 593.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u137	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you explain to us that the law of 2013 opening marriage to same-sex couples inevitably brought the LDC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u138	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u139	The 2013 law allowed for adoption: the LDC had to follow logically. I totally adhere to your conception of things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u140	I repeat, I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u141	We said the same thing as you in 2013, anticipating a domino effect: each law prepares the following. The Marriage Act prepared the measures we are considering in relation to the LDC. There was a delay, after 2013, only because the left-wing government of the time, worried about popular protests, postponed its project. Under the same domino effect, the LDC Bill is preparing a future text on GPA. The GPA will come because two categories of couples are in the same situation, facing the same reality. First, they cannot procreate naturally. Secondly, the techniques now allow them to consider such reproduction. Since the lesbian couple and the couple of men are in the same situation, they will necessarily experience the same evolution: today the LDC, tomorrow the GPA. What still holds a few people to the left is the association of GPA with money,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u142	You didn't listen well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u143	...but we'll start by introducing GPAs that won't be associated with the money. An intermediate solution will therefore be put in place. That is how it will be done. There will be the exception that challenges the rule. Then the rule will be reviewed. That's how it always goes. We will obviously have the same arguments. We will be told that it already exists, which is true. We will be told that this is done abroad, which is true. That way, we can justify everything. We will use an argument supposed to be definitive by saying, "It's modern! » The process is always the same. The real issue, ladies and gentlemen, is what ethics is, and what ethics is. For me, ethics is the ability to say no to the air of time; It is the ability to say no to perhaps real scientific progress, but it is not intended to be transformed into evolution or social revolution. The researcher will seek: nothing will prevent him from doing so, and we are not meant to prevent him from looking. The problem arises when the result of his research can cause ethical upheavals in the importance of those you propose to us. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you tell us that there is a barrier that you do not want to cross. You say you don't want GPA. If it were a real barrier, if there was a real ban, there would be sanctions. Where are they?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u144	They exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u145	You'll tell us about it. What sanctions when a couple is considering a GPA abroad? What sanctions when websites offer GPA in foreign countries – these sites have great visibility throughout France, we could provide you with multiple examples. Who has been prosecuted, who has been punished, what measures have you taken? What instructions have been given to enforce sanctions? There wasn't any. On the other hand, what is very real is the proposal to promote a development that seems to us to be formidable. That is why we are defending Amendment No 593.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u146	The link between your demonstration and the amendment does not seem clear to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u147	However, what was said was very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u148	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 729.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u149	I would like to go back to the substance of the amendment on women's access to the LDCs alone, and not at all on the GPA to which Mr. Marc Le Fur refers. I'll tell you what, I'm wondering. It has been said that all family models exist on earth. Until today, our model was based on the couple. This couple has evolved. For centuries, it only existed through marriage – it was rather a marriage of interest. In the 20th century the marriage of love appeared with its fragility, and single-parent families appeared. Things have changed: single women have been able to adopt children, but in the interests of the latter; Today, homosexual marriage is recognized and the homosexual couple can have children. For my part, I ask the question of the family that I call one parent. In my view, the family is the first unit of solidarity. It is a homosexual or heterosexual couple, but it is the first unit of solidarity in our society. If we dedicate a single-parent family that can then be chosen and not only suffered, this solidarity will disappear. It is known that it is not easy to raise children and that the couple plays an important role in this area, in organizing things, for the guards, for housing, for material matters. I wonder, on the one hand, whether by establishing the single parent family we do not cause a loss of opportunity for the child. I also note that, in this context, the family unit disappears and that the family is based on individualism. Opening the LDC to women alone is therefore a real problem. I also wonder about another point. During the hearings, many psychiatrists and psychologists explained to us that the relationship between a woman and her child could be merged, which could lead to complications. Could you please reassure me about this? For now, I have many doubts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u150	On the identical amendments Nos 15, 114, 334, 593, 729, 885, 1100, 1616, 1691, 2541 and 2570, I have before me a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 885.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u151	We are dealing with one of the real subjects of the bill: women alone. This issue needs to be addressed in a specific way. We are looking at it in an article that is also devoted to women's couples, but it poses other problems, as the Council of State has recognized. Perhaps we are at risk of increasing vulnerability. In any case, we can really position ourselves on the side of the child who will end up with one parent. This sometimes happened, until today, in response to the hazards of life, but tomorrow it is a question of society using the technique to create situations that have potential vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities concern the mother who has to raise a child alone. I note that the Council of State considered "excessive to give one person the extreme power to impose on another the amputation of half of his or her ancestry". It is the Council of State that says so. That's strong! I am also thinking of the material vulnerability of single-parent families. Some ask that single-parent families, whose difficulties are known, should not be confused with women who will have a child through reproductive health assistance. Yet, in fact, the latter will be single-parent families. This potential situation cannot therefore be avoided. You will tell me that all this has been considered and that the material living conditions of the mother will be verified. Of course, but what guarantee does it exist that it will not be affected by an accident of life? Women alone do not benefit more from the right to retain their jobs than others. The question of the child's system of insurance therefore arises. If something happens to a single parent, it's twice as much insurance coverage for the child, and therefore an increased risk. Finally, I would like to address the issue of access to origins, which is equally important from the point of view of filiation. With this bill, a child born to a third-party donor will be able to access his or her biological origins at the age of 18. Today, the one who takes such a step already has a father. He's not looking for a second parent either, since he already has one. The bill opens up a quest for children born in LDCs that we do not control. At the age of 18, they could look for something other than their biological origin. If bad luck happens to the first parent – an accident can always happen – they may want to find a second parent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u152	He's not a parent, he's a donor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u153	And if the donor takes affection for the child who has become an orphan, himself willing to build a relationship, what can then prevent an encounter from occurring? You will answer me that with "if", it is easy to imagine everything, but you have to mention all the risks when creating new rights. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the issue of single women, we must place the interests of the child at the heart of our thinking: let us remain consistent with the attention that we have wished to show to the difficulties of single-parent families, particularly in the context of the latest social security financing bills. Let us not create a new vulnerability for these children by establishing the single parent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u154	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 1100.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u155	Ministers, you have made the choice of introducing the Women's Couple MPA and the Single Women MPA into the same article, combining them in the name of equal access to technology. It is rare to build an article around a technology and not around a company project. However, these are two completely different situations. In keeping with the AMP for Women's Couples, the various surveys conducted since 1986, particularly in the United States, of 17-year-olds and 25-year-olds, are reassuring. Conducted in many families and in the long term, they conclude that the education of these children is proceeding satisfactorily. They have a rich network of friends and are very close to their parents. Above all, it is important to stress that none of them suffered from sexual assault or violence on the part of a relative or relative, while 8 per cent of 17-year-olds in the United States were victims of sexual abuse on the part of a relative or relative, and 26 per cent of them were victims of violence committed by their relatives. There is never any certainty, but, even to shock some and some of you, these elements make me think that the MPA for women's couples has the advantage of jostling the myth of a patriarchal society that would, by its very nature, be good for the balance of the child. These women are far from the majority. So there's nothing to worry about. A little matriarchate can't hurt! The removal of anonymity, on the other hand, seems fundamental to me, for all the reasons that my colleague Joachim Son-Forget has mentioned. With regard to the AGP for single women, the National Ethics Advisory Committee, in its opinion of 15 June 2017, acknowledged that the lack of parental double lineage resulting from this family model raised specific ethical questions. The child to come will be deprived, from the outset, of a dual filiation. In this opinion, the CCNE highlights the lack of serious studies on the consequences of this feature on young children. We could say, like Aurore Bergé, that we don't need education. In any case, they cannot be said to exist. Finally, the child psychiatrists interviewed by the Special Committee unanimously expressed their concerns about the impact of the AGP on children. My colleague Olivier Faure mentioned earlier Boris Cyrulnik, neuropsychiatrist and attachment specialist, but he quoted only part of his remarks. Boris Cyrulnik is in favour of the AMP for women's couples and says: "What matters is that there are two. If there are two, the child first has a safety base, which is his mother's body, and very quickly, he learns to love someone else. His native world is opening up. » He adds, and this part has been forgotten by my colleague: "If there is one, the child is a prisoner of his mother's affection. » Of course, it is not a question of questioning the education given by single women to their children when they are confronted with this situation as a result of an accident in life. Of course, the children raised by these women can be built. However, a situation must be distinguished from a situation created voluntarily. Some colleagues pointed out that adoption for single women existed, which was sufficient to justify the MPA for single women. However, the two situations are very different. In the case of adoption, the children are already there and have no parents. Of course, it is better for them to have a parent than not at all. Finally, Madam Minister, it is legally possible, without undermining the notion of equality, to open the MPA to women's couples only. This is what the Council of State said: "There is no objection to making a possible distinction between these two audiences. » This position is the one adopted by the Nordic countries, Norway, Finland and Sweden, often cited for their advanced societal model. That these countries allow only the MPA for women's couples, not the MPA for women alone, should make us think. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Blandine Brocard also applauds]] That is the meaning of the amendment that I have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u156	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 1616.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u157	I would like to go back to some of the arguments I have heard about this amendment, which concerns the MPA for single women. Someone said that we all had a large number of single-parent families around us and that the children of these families were doing very well. I even heard the minister talk about wars, crusades and divorcees. No doubt the situation of the children who are about to be born is enviable in relation to that of the war orphans... All studies tend to show that single-parent families are more financially precarious than others. The Government itself recognizes this, as its family support policies target single-parent families. A report from the Observatory of Inequalities recently revealed that these families constitute a quarter of the poor population. When separations lead to a 3 per cent drop in the standard of living for men, this is 22 per cent for women, who are mostly employed in precarious, CSD and part-time jobs. In view of this fact and in view of the steady increase in the number of single-parent families, the Government has considered new mechanisms, such as the poverty reduction plan, providing for a 30 per cent increase in the supplement of free choice of mode of care, which I welcomed, or the premium of activity. It is therefore at least contradictory to envisage, with this bill, the extension of medically assisted reproduction to single women, while the Government is taking steps to assist single-parent families and reduce their fragility. The National Ethics Advisory Committee recognizes that there are few studies on the development and development of children of single mothers by choice born by AMP. These are English qualitative studies of small numbers and very young children. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] In this context, therefore, we have no certainty. We do not know the consequences of the anthropological rupture that we are about to engage. The precautionary principle must therefore apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u158	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1691.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u159	Almost a quarter of French families are single-parent families. 85 per cent of these are women who raise nearly 3 million children alone. Unfortunately, many of these women find themselves in difficult situations, resulting from factors specific to their status as single mothers. Feelings of family failure, conflicting relationships with the former spouse, difficulty in recovering maintenance, security and education of children who depend on a single salary, weakening of the relationship and social status, fear of losing custody of their child: these are the main difficulties faced by isolated mothers. For the most part, these difficulties are compounded by the inequalities that affect all women in terms of training, recruitment, employment contracts, employment, wages, care and pensions. I believe that we will all agree on these findings. The combination of these discriminant factors very often creates a situation of precariousness, which sometimes also affects the fathers of single-parent families. Last winter, during the yellow vest crisis, we all found that a large number of women were on the roundabouts. For many of them, they were single women who demonstrated their difficulty in making ends meet. Here, I am sure that many of us have found themselves at some point in their lives, or are still in a single-parent family situation and are experiencing these difficulties. 40% of single-parent mothers are inactive. One-third work part-time. 33% have no diplomas. 60 per cent of mothers with a child under 3 years of age do not work because of often financially inadequate child care. Finally, 20% of RSA beneficiaries, or 500,000 persons, are single-parent mothers, and 33% of them live in HLM. Obviously, I do not consider a single woman to be a worse mother than a married woman. Similarly, I do not deny the wish of some single women to have a child, to raise and love him, or their ability to be mothers. I understand their desire for a child. But the question we are asking ourselves today is how society and the law organize the existence of a child with one parent. This is the responsibility of the community. The best interests of the child are, to say the least, weakened by the bill. In view of the difficult situations caused by the absence of a father, the precautionary principle must apply. The father cannot simply be the one who gave his DNA and that the child discovers at the age of 18. He is the one who accompanies, even if, of course, a child can find other references around him. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the name of the precautionary principle, one should have a shaking hand when deciding on such a delicate issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u160	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 2541.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u161	Let me repeat again and again: every family, whatever its form, has the right to respect and benevolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u162	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u163	While this amendment is intended to limit the LDC to couples, and thus to limit its extension to women's couples only, excluding single women, it in no way constitutes any judgement on single parenthood.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u164	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u165	Nevertheless, a couple and a woman alone are not the same. This bill has been the subject of extensive work and has been the subject of numerous hearings. It must be noted that these, diverse and varied, did not lead to consensus, as the views on the interests of the child and the necessary conditions for its conception remain disparate. If the choice of a single woman to conceive a child belongs to her, as part of the expansion of the legalization of the LDC, the State and society, through the medical team that will allow it, bear the responsibility for the living conditions of that future child. We consider that the most favourable conditions for the development of the child are part of the joint project of two people, in their commitment to the child, enabling safety and otherness of his/her parenting environment. The scientific work on attachment shows that the presence of two parents provides a desirable safety for the healthy growth of the child, and first by guaranteeing the pregnant mother a safe environment, favourable to development in utero. On the other hand, is the importance of the third party in the mother-child dysade yet to be demonstrated? The financial issue – even if the studies are nuanced – and the time available compared to that of a two-parent family are additional reasons for questioning the opening of the LDC to single women. I have listened at length to those who argue that this is a reasoned and measured choice on the part of the woman concerned; But is the child's desire necessarily reasonable? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille also applauds]] Finally, some countries such as Austria and Norway have opened the MPA to women's couples, but not to women alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u166	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 2570.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u167	I found the argument of our colleague Isaac-Sibille full of common sense and wisdom; I will therefore make it mine, without repeating it, for fear of betraying it. Whatever the arguments put forward, it is indeed the interests of the child that each of them intends to defend, each in its own way. It is necessary to distinguish the case of a single woman from that of a couple – whatever its composition, moreover. This last point refers us to Mr. Lachaud's question about the role of the father and what differentiates him from the mother – beyond the peculiarity of the relationship that the mother has with the child she has borne and who will persist in a couple of women, although the right of filiation enshrined in the bill tends to deny this obviousness. The role of the father depends on what the man and wife do with it; As a result of a permanent discussion, it is not previously established. The same applies to a couple of women. In any case, being two brings the child not only physical security, but also psychological security. This is the limit of the uniparental model, although it can be said that a woman is ready to raise a child alone and has given herself the material means. At some point, the lack of access may be felt during the child's construction process and may not be palliated. In this regard, as in others, there is a danger of domino effects that will eventually be lost control.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u168	What is the opinion of the committee on all of these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u169	Since single women's access to the LDC was at the heart of the bill, the committee was obviously opposed to all the deletion amendments. The questions that have been raised, and which are entirely respectable, we have all asked ourselves at some point; and if it has been decided to retain the extension of the LDC to women alone, it is after careful consideration. In making this choice, we were anything but sorcerer apprentices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u170	It's not enough to say it so that it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u171	Precisely because the subject raised questions and doubts, our evolution was reasoned, cautious, and based on a reassuring impact study. What's this about? A single woman develops a parenting project; it matures it; months go by; She gathers her relatives – family, friends – around this very built project, which is quite reassuring for the future both material and emotional of the child so welcomed. Mr. The Fur and Mr. Bazin may not have much doubt on the subject, but they have a lot of suspicion about the hidden intentions of the Government or the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u172	[[Smile on a few benches of the LR group]] Especially from the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u173	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The intention, we repeat, tirelessly, would be to move towards a commercial GPA, towards a commercialization of the bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u174	Don't caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u175	You talked about it on the radio on Monday!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u176	The spectre of eugenics is also convoked. But how would allowing a LDC in a single woman lead to eugenics? It's totally unrealistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u177	We'll talk about the pre-implantation diagnosis again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u178	Please, Mr. Bazin...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u179	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Neither the Government nor the majority have any hidden intentions; On the contrary, we are transparent. Today we are legislating on the LDC within women's couples and for women alone, and only on this: neither on eugenics nor on GPA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u181	Article 1 and the amendments before us raise a lot of questions about our family models. I hear that reproductive health assistance should not be offered to women alone, on the grounds that it would be a socially vulnerable category or a more vulnerable family model. This has been said several times, single-parent families account for 23 per cent of families; It is true that their median income is lower than that of families formed by a couple and must therefore be accompanied. However, and this is the heart of our position, it is appropriate for us not to amalgamate the single women we are talking about here with those who have become so because of accidents in life. You are right, Mrs Genevard: in the latter case, single parenthood is not necessarily suffered; She can be chosen, as these women may have decided to separate from their spouse. But it wasn't their original project, and their life course was weakened. Thus, in these families, the difficulties encountered are less related to single parenthood than to socio-economic factors: break-up, separation of property, remoteness, lack of social support, or even conflicts, sometimes violent, between parents. On the contrary, families where single parenthood is chosen will have matured a project, often out of subsidiarity, that is, because of the biological clock...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u182	That's right. Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u183	I am not speaking to anyone in particular, but it is often for this reason that a woman comes to this choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u184	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u185	Some women who find themselves in this situation decide not to do so, as well as a couple may choose not to have a child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u186	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u187	All this is possible. In the families we are talking about, social support is important in order to mature the parenting project and accommodate the children in the best conditions. Often, moreover, the women concerned are well surrounded socially: they provide for otherness, they are aware of the insurance risk; They ensure the presence of brothers, sisters – uncles, aunts – because they want to protect their children, like us. Therefore, restricting access to the LDC to couples and denying it to those women who have a desire for a child and a long-term parenting project is, I believe, a challenge to these millions of women who are raising their children alone, denying their ability to do so in good conditions and to provide them with the safety and love they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u188	No one's fighting them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u189	These new family forms already exist, and if a woman, at some point in her life, has no choice but to give birth to a child alone, nothing will prevent her from doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u190	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u191	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u192	It's his freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u193	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] What we are proposing here is to secure the path of women who, in any case, will make a child. We will secure it medically, avoiding them from taking risks by searching for a donor on the internet – there are sites for this –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u194	And it's not sanctioned!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u195	... by saving them the quest for an evening donor, sometimes unselected, and sexually transmitted diseases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u196	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u197	We will also secure the path of men, because some women, after having made this long mature choice, and because this journey – we do not deny it – is sometimes difficult, ask for recognition of paternity after several years. We all know, around us, men to whom this happened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u199	In short, the text will secure a path that has existed since the dawn of time and that the law will never prohibit. The project respects all family models, the desire to give love to a child; He is respectful of both women and men. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Many of you have made a comparison with other countries. There are only two – which have been cited – who do not allow the LDC to women alone. Others accept the LDC for single women, but not for same-sex couples. And, in reality, what other countries are doing does not matter to us, because it is the reality of our country that we have to consider. All those who are going to vote for the text respect the reservations that have been made, and they feel the scope of them at the bottom of them, but, having estimated the benefit-risk ratio for women, they are in favour of securing their journey. We trust these women to mature enough for their project, to provide enough security for their child's life. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds]] It is for all these reasons that we wish to open the LDC to women alone. I am therefore against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u200	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u201	Like many others here, I understand the desire for children in single women. It is legitimate, because it is the constitutive of human nature. Yet, after careful reflection and many readings, hearings and meetings, I remain dubitative about the LDC for single women. The existence of a couple, whether their two members are two women or a man and a woman, is in the child's interest. Of course, it may be thought that the use of the LDC, which is not an insignificant act, will remain uncommon. But we're not sure. [[Ms. Frédérique Dumas applauds]] Admittedly, single women can always conceive a child if they so wish, but they then assume responsibility, while, within the framework of the LDC, the legislator supports the formation of a single parent family.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u202	That's right! The legislator and society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u203	I fear that by depriving a child of a dual parentage from birth, he will not be given the same chance as another child. However, I am very attached to the fact that all children have the same chance capital at birth. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe and Mrs Agnes Thill also applaud]] For all these reasons, I consider it reasonable not to allow the LDC to be women alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u204	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u205	I will be brief, especially as I share the powerful arguments put forward by the minister. If I can hear some questions and reservations, I believe we must protect ourselves as much as possible against amalgams and somewhat risky comparisons, which give all-round conceptions of a wide variety of family situations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applaud]] As much as I believe that it is necessary to work in a very concrete way so that single-parent families can better assume their situation – I am thinking, for example, of provisions aimed at combating part-time work, because it mainly affects women, and even more so those in a single-parent situation – as much as not to salute the courage, inventiveness and determination they demonstrate in raising their children, their ability to hold everything through all ends, irritates me and makes me want to think about them and to salute their courage to assume everything in spite of the difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u206	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u207	First of all, I would like to thank the minister for her perfectly clear and fair words, which do good to hear. We have already had lengthy debates on the subject before the public session and I know that he is passionate about several of our colleagues, but it seems to me that the opening of the LDC to single women highlights, above all, another subject of society which, on the other hand, refers to a great deal of fear while at the same time creating images of fragility and vulnerability: that of single parenthood in general. It would therefore be a matter of distinguishing well between single parents, single parents, and single parents, chosen and thus assumed. The question before us this evening is that of this chosen and assumed single parenthood – which will allow, as you have explained very well, to find the foundations of otherness in a somewhat wider circle. Many experts told us in the special committee that this was quite possible when it was done in full consciousness. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For the other single parents, who are facing difficulties, it is quite possible, as my colleague has said, that we, as legislators, continue to take the subject at heart and arm-to-arm to propose better solutions of societal accompaniment through other texts. But this is not the question we are asking tonight: it is not a question of fighting monoparentalities suffered or more or less arranged, but of whether we are able to recognize that there is a plurality of monoparentalities, that we no longer have taboos on this subject and that we are able to talk about it the very fact that we are able to distinguish them. And it is precisely because I feel ready to do so and because I recognize the courage of those women who have chosen her and who have the strength to carry out the education of these children that I will vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u208	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u209	I cannot help but pay tribute to the quite eloquent moment in which our colleague Breton praised the birth, the body of women and this carnal bond... A man using such words seems to me to be revealing a certain connection with the bodies of women and the construction that goes hand in hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u210	Oh! What a cliché, Mrs. Obono!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u211	And that was in support of an argument supposed to explain that his report to biology, in this case to the body of women, justified the vote of amendments aimed at denying women the choice of childbirth from their own bodies. On the other hand, I have heard arguments marked by the spirit of the staircase. In the case of women's couples, the problem was initially that it was not a man and a woman; Now, there's not two people. Even if there is a fairly clear consistency in this argument, I would like to deconstruct it by reminding that the parenting of a single woman is not a novelty. One of our colleagues mentioned an ex nihilo legal creation, but women have raised children alone since the dawn of time, including sometimes within an established framework, in accordance with the organisation of the society concerned. All we're gonna do here is act a fact of society. In this respect, I agree that it is the company's responsibility to secure, but does this necessarily involve the couple? The question arises when we know how much the couple can be a lock-up structure for women who are prevented by material insecurity from coming out of an extremely toxic relationship with their spouses, or even for the children themselves. I heard about the family as the pinnacle of stability, but I recall that it is also one of the first sources of neurosis, trauma, for individuals. Therefore, it is not possible to establish the family in this way...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u212	Abolition of marriage, in this case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u213	... understood as a man and a woman forming a couple, because this has not always been the case: there have always been single-parent families and multi-parent families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u214	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u215	This vision may be taken from a certain point of view, but it seems obsolete to me. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, I agree with the comments made by several colleagues: the responsibility of society to all individuals is to ensure well-being and collective survival. And it is indeed a question of responding by the appropriate means when family situations, whether single-parent, two-parent or multi-parent, do not allow individuals to survive. It is then socially and collectively that we must develop, for example, public services for early childhood, equal pay or all the services that socialize what is in the field of women, so far only in the private sphere. This is how we manage to secure the life paths not only of the children, but also of their parents, because the general interest of the children is also and first of all the general interest of the individuals who make up the family cells. I therefore call once again on our colleagues, the Republicans, and even some colleagues from the Republic on the move, to continue this debate when we discuss the PLF and the PLFSS, to address all social and collective measures that would enable, in terms of economic well-being and public services, to meet the needs of children and their parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u216	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u217	I am delighted with the tone of these debates, because I have known as you, Mr President, those that we had, under the previous legislature, on a rather similar subject, which manifested both a desire for publicity and counter-advertising, and that it is remarkable to hear arguments, not only justifiable and respectable, but which confront each other in a respectful manner. I heard earlier, quite rightly, that there are now different forms of family – and, as a colleague from the MODEM group said, they are all respectable. This has been a debate in French society for a long time, but all are now respectable. However, in the debates I mentioned, when we were talking about families, they were married couples, pacse couples, cohabiting couples, heterosexual couples, homosexual couples, but never considered a family not a single person with a child as a result of a separation or death of the spouse, but a single person's child project. In the evolution of the reflection on the nature of the family, there is a change that is not insignificant – even if it is not new, I readily concede it. Our assembly accepted a few years ago – I was not – that a single person who adopted a child could constitute a family. But does she form a family before she even adopts it? I do not believe that, because a parenting project does not constitute a family as such, even though the law has given it that right. If I take the floor at this time, it is because I believe that we have accepted what has led us to a very difficult debate today. When a single man or woman had the right to adopt a child, they were accepted to have a right to the child. By the way, I find this all the more disturbing because we know how many couples seek to adopt and fail to do so, or adopt a child born abroad. But I readily acknowledge that since then there has been little reason to oppose a person who now wishes to have a child from her alone. By nature, however, they can only be women. In fact, I do not know how to accept solitary adoption for men and women, while solitary conception is being legalized for women alone. I hear, "GPA, no! So the desire of a child would be less legitimate in a man than in a woman? I'm sorry, but I'm the father of four children and my desire for a child was as legitimate as my wife's! So I don't see in the name of what you give to one that you will refuse to the other: what you accept for one, you will have to accept for the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u218	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u219	We will inevitably arrive at a percussion, a shock: to give the man the same right as the woman, we will have to allow the use of a third-party carrier, with all the problems that this poses – on which I will not come back, since this is not the subject of these amendments. It therefore seems to me that these deletion amendments which refuse to allow a single person to create a parenting project refer both to a precedent – which I regret – and to consequences – that I fear. And I fear them all the more because they will be serious. Indeed, it is a matter of putting an end to hypocrisy by regularizing what already exists: couples of women wishing to have children rushed to put away the spouse's slippers and hide her toothbrush when the State representative announced his visit, one of them pretending to live alone to be entitled to the LDC. That's the truth! It exists! Moreover, it is a shame to accuse citizens of this kind of situation... But you all know that in order to recognize the right to the LDC to women alone as well as to couples – knowing that in either case, it is subject to declaration and to a very random verification – the text will have an unforeseen consequence for heterosexuals. Indeed, the use of an LDC now implies a medical impossibility to procreate, which gives rise to a social demand to which a medical act responds – it is a purely societal choice, which has nothing to do in a law of bioethics, but let's not. This leads you to say, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that the concept of parents of intention must be abandoned for reasons of equality and that the child of a homosexual couple who have resorted to the LDC must know his or her origin. We will have this debate at a later stage. As a result, however, since it is not necessary to make a difference, a heterosexual couple whose two members are infertile will, under the law that you are about to vote for, be forced to explain to their child that one of their parents was infertile.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u220	It's not a shame to be infertile!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u221	That seems regrettable to me. I'm opposed to lying to the child. I would have preferred, however, that the state should not interfere with these situations, and that these families should be left – because in a homosexual couple, infertility is obvious – to choose. I chose to intervene at this point in the debate to stress that this development is not neutral, that it does not come from anything – it comes from adoption – and that it will have consequences that are not limited to the women concerned alone, but that will concern the whole chain of filiation – which Pascal Brindeau tried to demonstrate a few hours ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u222	Seven speakers still wish to speak on these amendments. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u223	At this point in the text – and this will happen again – we find ourselves in tension, because there is no part of the Chamber that would be right while the other part would be wrong. Each sets ethical limits differently according to what it considers acceptable or desirable in the interests of the child, society or women, these different interests may sometimes be in balance. Many of us have gone on the issue of the LDC open to women alone. That was my case, for example. This subject seems to me to have to be distinguished from that of single-parent families. No one denies the difficulties encountered by some single-parent families when these situations are experienced, i.e. in the extreme majority of cases. We know these families, we receive them – they can even sometimes be part of our loved ones. The great difference with the LDC, which is open to single women, is that there is a desire for a child, a parenting project initially conceived alone, and not just two: it changes the nature of the project, but also the way in which it is envisaged and made possible. The two situations cannot therefore be compared. On the other hand, it is not up to the legislator to say what would or would not be a good family and to de facto establish a hierarchy between a better saying and a less-so-called. No one here can guarantee that the best-supposed would correspond to a heterosexual family while the least-supposed would be a woman raising her child alone. Because we do not want to judge these families, it seems to me more relevant to accept the opening of the LDC to all women, including single women. With regard to the argument of otherness, which has often come back in the course of the debates, I would point out that the search for that otherness, even within heterosexual couples, often occurs outside the couple, within the family or relatives, or with other referents. Because the project of a single woman has been well thought out and matured – a LDC project is not a simple project, carried out in a few weeks: it is the subject of a long medical evaluation process, with a significant failure rate – the latter has the will to search for and prepare for this otherness. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any case, I believe that we are in a position today, as legislators, to affirm that we do not establish a hierarchy between the different families that already exist in France and those that will exist tomorrow, and that by recognizing the plurality of these families, we recognize the children who come from them and who will therefore be much better received in our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u224	[[Smile]] Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor. I now have eight registered students: everything is increasing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u225	It's inflation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u226	It's like taxes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u227	First of all, I would like to say my great respect, and that of the group that I have the honour of chairing, for all the legitimate convictions that are expressed in this House. As we come together to find out whether the inclusion of a technique in the law can violate an ethical principle, cause a disorder to society or cause a loss of chances for a child, we must remember, by going through this debate, that since the dawn of time, women can make children alone when they decide – sometimes without deciding. As a result, they have never broken an ethical principle or caused trouble to society. History teaches us, and the legislator cannot tell these children that mothers alone have made that they are less likely than others, nor explain to these mothers that they have made the wrong choice or that this accident has led to a loss of chances for their child. On the other hand, some single-parent families do not live well – many of our colleagues, regardless of their convictions, have noted this. It is the honour of the State and the legislator to accompany them and to improve this support in the years to come. These children, however, were conceived by two beings: these families became single parents in a second stage, without the law having passed. These mothers, who fight and act, probably did not have the chance, the depth of reflection, the mental and physical preparation, or the entourage of women who, tomorrow, will be able to conceive a single child per LDC. Finally, I would like to conclude with the following reflection: love for a child requires humility. One is proud to be a parent, but the child grows up and is built by his or her parents, but above all – according to the educational world – by a collective parent. I believe that family can be made when there is a parent and a child, but these families are also accompanied by a society where grandparents, brothers and sisters – as the minister pointed out –, friends, meetings, opportunities throughout life, teachers, instructors, etc. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The reflection of the legislator must include the fact that the construction of the family necessarily involves one parent, but also a whole society: when we decide to family, we also make society. We must therefore reject these amendments, because nothing should give us the pretension to prohibit them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u228	Bravo, President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u229	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u230	On this issue of opening the LDC to women alone, I confess a journey: I have evolved. Spontaneously, I thought that a woman living the test of loneliness should not be subjected to the test of the absence of a child.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u231	Very good thinking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u232	Then came the auditions. We listened to the doctors, who told us about anxiety, guilt, and the referral on the child of difficulties in raising him alone. My opinion then evolved, and I honestly do not believe that we have the right to take this risk and to open the LDC to women alone. I would like to say to Mr Chiche and Mrs Bergé that I saw a buzz in the Chamber to convince their colleagues in turn...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u233	Pressure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u234	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... that everyone should be able to decide freely, in conscience, on a matter of importance, regardless of the group to which he belongs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u235	We'll make a free decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u236	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u237	I listened to your answer, minister: you talked a lot about the parents, but you didn't really talk about the children. In this respect, I wish to return to the hearing of the child psychiatrists, which took place on the last day of our special committee – we were few at the time. They have returned – and this is not related to sexual orientation – to the issue of women alone whom they receive in consultation and who sometimes experience significant or even problematic guilt as a result of having imposed their loneliness on their child. Mr rapporteur, it seems to me important, in the context of a bioethical law, to seek a balance between risks and benefits. However, whenever you speak on behalf of the Special Committee, I have the feeling that you are forgetting the risks and insisting only on the benefits. It's a little awkward. This awareness that the woman is alone can weigh on the child – this is what some child psychiatrists have explained to us. To answer Mrs. Dubost, it is easy to assume for one day to raise a child. However, this commitment is valid for the whole of life. The entourage can change, and the support of a day will not necessarily be the support of ever. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Our discussions are marked by a form of confusion between the reality of the situations of single-parent families – of children who already exist – and what society proposes to establish, namely, children with potential vulnerability. This is a real subject: the ethics of the child's vulnerability must prevail over the ethics of women's autonomy alone. Otherwise, society would take a serious responsibility, and I hope that these children will not blame us in twenty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u238	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u239	[[Smile]] As I indicated earlier, we can all have deep convictions. Personally, by working at night in EHPAD – a residential institution for dependent seniors – I was lucky enough to be able to take time with patients. I remember, in particular, a resident to whom I told about my life course and my difficulties, and who had yelled at me by explaining that in 1938 she had given birth to a premature baby – to six months of pregnancy – weighing four kilograms. At the time, many women gave birth to premature children because of the need to be married, and the pregnancy officially began at the time of marriage. This lady told me about her life, and she also explained to me that her husband was far from perfect, that she had been a little beaten – but that she might have been looking for him – and that many years later she had wondered if he would not have been better for her child than she would have raised him alone. At this pre-war time, however, his child would have been marked with a horrible word: he would have been a bastard. No mother wants her child to grow up with this ignoble stigma. Listening to our debates tonight, I wonder if, in 2019, we have really evolved. The company has certainly changed, but it has not done so since last year. It is the same for all, for a long time, except that it has often been necessary, in the past, to hide and ensure that his family corresponds to the stereotypes dictated by society. Today, in 2019, I want to believe that stereotypes can change and that a child can be born from a single mother if she decides to give her life and all her love. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It is really a particular subject, and it is the great difference that exists in our society between men and women: a man can be a father up to 95, 100, 105, 110, 115 years old; The woman knows that at some point, the famous biological clock is running.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u240	Is Professor Touraine okay?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u241	It may make you smile, but it is still a fundamental fact of life. A woman thinks, at some point, I can give love, but maybe my biological clock will stop me. We wonder what these children will say and do, they say we don't have twenty years of hindsight. But all you have to do is walk around, talk to people: we know examples. Parents did not wait for this bill to have children. I quote the case of a woman who said to herself, seeing the time pass – she had completed long studies, obtained a job – that she did not want to marry the first man who came to have a life arranged according to the norms of society: to marry, to build a house, to have children. But she had love to give and the desire to have a child to whom she would bring as much as possible to prepare her for a beautiful future. As several testimonies prove, women have done things that they had not decided, finding themselves in a dramatic situation, living almost like rape.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u242	One speaker per group!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u243	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Sonia Krimi also applauds]] It's 2019. Whether for or against this reality, a woman may have a child, including a couple formed with another woman. All situations must be taken into account, bearing in mind that, in the last century, women who had been pregnant with a bastard in their belly have led so-called normal lives so as not to be judged because of a distance from stereotypes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u244	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u245	My colleague Mr Aurore Bergé has pointed out that there are several legitimacys, and I thank him for that. She also pointed out that, of course, this law was not intended to say what was right and what was wrong, but that it was a law of bioethics. But this term contains the notion of ethics, which means that we are here to discuss the limits that we want to set, without it being tantamount to saying that some are right and others are wrong. But this obliges us to take positions, in my opinion, based on our convictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u247	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] There are few studies on the issue of women alone – unlike that of the LDC for women's couples. Psychiatrists have been quite unanimous – Boris Cyrulnik, for example, has developed some arguments. I would like it to be considered, according to his convictions, that these reflections are of no interest. But it bothers me that we can say that they are false, that we must not amalgamate. When you talk about women who are alone with a child because it's a situation they've been through, it's you who's making a mix! When you say, Madam Minister, Mr. Rapporteur, that these women have thought about their project, that everything has been very studied, I agree with you, of course, but how does this give assurance that everything will go well after that for the child?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u248	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u249	In the same way, you pointed out that many couples, heterosexual as well as homosexual, wanted to have a child. So far, it has never ensured, for anyone, that it would go well after that! No one can tell what happens next. You say we don't have to make a difference between families, but you yourself note that the mere fact that a single woman has a project means that everything will go well. How can you assure him?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u250	And in the straight guys, how do you guarantee it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u251	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] I think it's neither better nor less good for a woman alone, but in either case, we have no certainty. This government often puts science in the forefront when it makes a decision. In this case, most studies of neuropsychiatrists indicate that difficulties may arise. I think it's good to take this into account. On the other hand, we are told that foreign examples do not count. I have already heard this argument in the Prime Minister's mouth about public audiovisual, so I'm used to it. Throughout the evening, however, we heard members of the majority say that it was because foreign countries had allowed the LDC that we were obliged to do so. You can't say everything and the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u252	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u253	I do not claim to deny access to the LDC to women alone, as was said earlier. But I would like to express my doubts on the basis of my professional experience. Teacher of schools and head of nursery school for twenty years, I try to project – which is not an easy and serene exercise – into the head of one of these children born thanks to the LDC open to women alone. At the age of three or four, perhaps later, this child will become aware of his uniqueness. For if my information is good, this measure will make possible 2000 to 3000 additional births in our country, which is very few. Some of these children will be born in a homoparental family, with two referents – a model I believe – while others will not have that chance. Today I do not have the guarantee that these children will be able to be given the full and complete answers that will enable them to accept naturally the fact of having been conceived from the choice of a single reference. Finally, when we look at the adoption procedures, I wonder why there are no more women alone who see their project succeed. Unless I'm mistaken, the family councils don't give them spontaneous and easy adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u254	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u255	I would like to point out that it is sometimes more difficult to say no that yes. We are trying to share with you our reservations about extending access to the LDC to single women. I would find it a pity that this position is seen as a back-up position, because the stakes are not there. It is not that we do not want to move forward, but we are concerned about the willingness to give a child the best chance for his or her future. I repeat to the minister the respect and admiration I have for her, but we understand this issue very differently. On the one hand, it is said that women will take risks, put themselves in danger because of a child's desire – at that time, therefore, reason does not law – and at the same time it is said that these women conceive the prospect of having a child in a reasonable way, thought, to ensure the right conditions for the child's care. Some paradoxes are a little hard to understand! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Liliana Tanguy also applauds]] Similarly, I register falsely against the idea that this measure is intended to protect men, because I believe that a man, as much as a woman, must be responsible for the risks associated with his fertility. When a man has a relationship with a woman, he or she must be responsible for the consequences that may result. Contraception is not only about women, it is also about men. It seems important to me to make it clear that it is not for women to wear everything. Finally, there is often a relationship between the conception of the child by LDCs and the issue of adoption. I would like to point out that these are not the same situations. In the case of adoption, the child has already been conceived and is waiting for a home. The design of a child upstream is not the same approach. On the other hand, if I am not mistaken, adoption by single parents, and single women, is a measure that was taken after World War I, when many orphans needed to be welcomed at a time when many men were no longer there and women were present.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u256	A million orphans!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u257	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-I groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is important to recontextualize and not mix everything. So these are some elements to inform this decision. I appeal, of course, to the respect of everyone in the opinions he defends.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u258	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u259	I would like to go back to some of the things I have heard, particularly with regard to the issue of single parenthood. I want to remind my colleagues who reduce everything to the somatic dimension that there is also a psychic life. Not everything is limited to the body, not just through it. The body can also be imagined, psychic or symbolic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u260	The Moral Lesson Donors of MODEM!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u261	These are not moral lessons, I am referring to what I have heard. Words say much more about those who pronounce them than they think! There is no parallelism between the situation of families that become single parents and that of single women who start a family – a scenario that takes place in the other direction. Therefore, we must not make any misconceptions. [[Michèle de Vaucouleurs applauds]] Finally, what is more beautiful than allowing a woman who lives in solitude to move to the stage of concern and to pass on certain values while untiring herself from her past to project herself towards a future? As has been said, it is not a question of building but of trying to protect and recognize. The recognized routes are secure. Nothing is more fundamental for a child than being able to grow up in a safe family, recognized as such by society. I will not finish without quoting Albert Camus, an exciting writer: "You don't know that alone, we never are! And that everywhere the same weight of future and past worries us. Care is at the heart of this project to extend the LDC to so-called single-parent families.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u262	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u263	I would like to say how much I understand and share the desire of a child, even when one is alone. I have been – and still is – active in medically assisted reproduction, within the framework of this mandate and precedents, and also as a professional before becoming a Member of Parliament. I know that you are very attentive to what you call destinies, since a mission on this issue has even been created under the auspices of Boris Cyrulnik. So I wonder, not about single parent families, whose difficulties have been mentioned, such as successes, sufferings and joys. My question is: Is it for the state to replace a parent? Is it up to the community to take responsibility, as if the state created pupils? Is it in the best interests of the child to ensure that he or she has no parental reference? Is it good for him to be born without that father he'll be looking for? My colleague referred to Albert Camus, who was a child of a single woman and suffered from it all his life – references to this suffering are found throughout his work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u264	He's done fine, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u265	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I would like to invite you, on behalf of the precautionary principle, to be cautious about the ethical issues that concern us, because we are talking about the most fragile, the most vulnerable, the smallest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u266	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u267	I would add a few words to say that our group, although obviously respecting all the positions and paths of everyone, will reject these amendments for a number of reasons. The first is that, since the beginning of the discussion of the text, we have assumed the opening up of new rights for women, whether alone or in a couple. On the other hand, since the right to adoption was open to single women, one might wonder why they would be denied the right to bring a child into the world themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u268	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u269	Women can also be trusted, and they can say that in the journey of the project they mature with reflection and courage, they do not decide lightly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u270	What about the men?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u271	There is no decision on a lead from a LDC: women who have matured and completed such a project must be trusted. Let us be a little careful, too, about certain statements made by the child psychiatrists, even if I obviously do not question them. In their offices, they are dealing with a number of special cases which would be abusive to make generalities or to draw shortcuts. Many children are not going to consult the child psychiatrists, simply because they are well. The malaise exists in some, certainly, but, I repeat, let us refrain from generalizing. [[Applause on several benches of the SOC and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, we will reject these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u272	The next item is Mr Joachim Son-Forget, after which we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u273	There are, in a way, two ways of seeing things. Many of us tend to see future children born in LDCs as potential victims. I know the identity quest that an adopted child may have, since I am one, and the questions that my wife may have asked when she was very young, her mother having found herself widowed, at the age that I am today, following the death of her husband, who died of a heart attack, with two daughters in her care. I know, in my foreground, the questions that we ask ourselves in such a case and also know the difficulty of the identity search, while telling me, sometimes, that we have not gotten away with it so badly. The other way of looking at it is to consider that the potential victims are not the children born in LDCs, but the others: the children who, in the near future, will be born naturally; These children who will be able to blame their parents, in a few years, for having been conceived according to the laws of chance, when others have been able to be selected, therefore born with the best skills and benefit from the best biotechnological changes. Do you know that it is already possible, today, to form embryos with three genetic heritages, as was the case in the United States in 2016 by combining the nuclear DNA of both parents and the mitochondrial DNA of a donor? Do you know that it is also possible to create artificial gametes? Models exist in fact from mouse-strain cells: who tells us that these realities will not, tomorrow, be those of man? Who will be the victims then? Children born naturally or children born in LDCs, or all these children together?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u274	These developments do not concern amendments, Mr Son-Forget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u275	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Have we, today, asked the questions fairly broadly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u276	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 15, 114, 334, 593, 729, 885, 1100, 1616, 1691, 2541 and 2570.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u277	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 132 Number of votes cast 120 Absolute majority 61 For adoption 39 Against 81
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u278	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-25-E2012.u279	Next meeting, this morning, at nine o'clock: Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
