ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. s 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u2	This morning, the Assembly began its examination of the appropriations relating to the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities" (No 2301, Annex 36; No 2306, Volume VII) and to the financial assistance account "Advances to local and regional authorities" (No 2301, Annex 36), which ended with amendment No 300, which entered into force after Article 78. I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u3	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u4	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u5	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u6	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u7	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u8	Amendment No 301 by Mr François Pupponi is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u9	I have before me three amendments, Nos 864, 1786 and 1887, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 864 and 1786 are identical.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u10	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1786. Perhaps you can present at the same time No. 1887?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u11	I'm gonna take them both off, Mr. President. I heard the minister say that the two reports we requested were ready; I do not despair that they will arrive before January 2nd.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u12	Thank you, Member of Parliament, and thank you to the Minister for giving that clarification. Amendment No 1312 by Mr Gaël Le Bohec is being defended. Mr Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u13	The amendment is not directly linked to the mission "Relations with local and regional authorities", it aims to draw up a report on the arrangements for canteens at 1 euro. We did not examine it in committee. So I give an opinion of wisdom, everyone will vote freely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u14	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u15	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u16	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u17	I regret that the opinion is unfavourable; We know how poverty is growing in the country and how important the subject of access to school catering, in a department like mine, is. It would be interesting to know how the 1 euro canteen measure had been applied; Moreover, this would allow us to know how to improve the scheme, in particular how to encourage municipalities to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u18	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u19	I understand your reasons, Madam Member; I gave the unfavourable opinion succinctly because there is a 304 programme entitled "Social inclusion and protection of persons" within the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities". You will find all the figures on this subject, which is why we think it is unnecessary to draw up a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u20	We come to the discussion of Amendments Nos 1782, 1783, 1855, 857, 1856, 858, 2506 and 1789 on the additional article after Article 78, previously reserved. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support amendments Nos 1782 and 1783 in the joint presentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u21	If the minister agreed to introduce Amendment No 2506 in advance, I think we would save a lot of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u22	You seem to have decided to chair the meeting (smiles); I have no objection to that, if the minister agrees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u23	Of course, I agree. Amendment No 2506 aims to stabilise in 2020 the amount of the departmental envelopes for the provision of equipment in rural areas – DETR – at their 2019 level. Each year, departmental envelopes are calculated on the basis of certain criteria, as you know, including population, density and fiscal potential. The amounts thus calculated may vary by more or less 5%. If you adopt this amendment, each department will retain in 2020 the amount of equipment for the rural territories of 2019; The quota allocated to New Caledonia, French Polynesia and Wallis and Futuna would also be frozen. This precautionary measure is intended to enable us to work in 2020 on possible developments in the calculation of DETR envelopes, in order to ensure that the appropriations are allocated appropriately to rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u24	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u25	I will withdraw Amendments Nos 1782 and 1783. I would like to thank the rapporteur-general, Mr President, very sincerely. the special rapporteurs and the services of the minister, thanks to which we were able to find a good compromise yesterday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u26	I call Mr. Christophe Jerretie, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u27	We withdraw Amendments Nos 857 and 858, tabled by the committee. As Mrs Pires Beaune said, yesterday we tried to reach an agreement on the DETR. Indeed, we found during the preliminary work that each new simulation had explosive consequences for some departments. We do not want the DETR to become a new DGF – overall operating staffing. We have made the collective choice – executive and legislator, several groups combined – to block the amounts involved this year, in order to work in the first half of the year on the calculation criteria. One amendment had already been tabled on this subject in 2016, another was drafted last year by the Government, in collaboration with Ms.Stella Dupont: we realize that the consequences can sometimes be very important. This year we tried to find solutions by adapting other criteria, which explains why amendments were tabled in committee, but we found, thanks to all the simulations carried out very well by the departments of the ministry and the Directorate General of Local Authorities – DGCL – that it was not possible to reach a solution in such a short time. Amendment No 2506 is therefore the result of a compromise; I believe that it can be the subject of consensus because it is necessary not to make DETR a DGF bis. Investment allocations are important for rural areas; The leverage effects, I repeat, are considerable. We need to be available to work concretely on this issue, which perhaps could not find its conclusion in the PLF for 2020. The committee therefore expresses an opinion in favour of the Government's amendment and I withdraw Amendments Nos 857 and 858 for its benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u28	I call Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u29	I withdraw my amendments Nos 1855 and 1856. To avoid any misunderstanding, I want to clarify in what spirit we have worked in. It is a question of taking a one-year break to open up a reflection aimed at defining an allocation that targets as precisely and accurately as possible which rural areas absolutely need it. In this sense, the measure is conservatory. What happened? A number of changes have taken place in recent years: changes in the rules in 2016, changes in EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – and an increase in the number of metropolises; the consequences were significant, but remained hidden for a few years because the DETR increased sharply to partially offset the decline in the DGF. Since everyone was a winner, no one questioned the calculation methods. We now have a frozen envelope of just over EUR 1 billion, which creates winners and losers. However, it is not always possible to objectify the result. It was therefore necessary, in my view, to take a break. I am also counting on DGCL and the Government to carry out teamwork in a timely manner, probably starting in January, so that we can present next year to Parliament a fairer distribution for rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u30	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u31	As Mr Jerretie said, many amendments to the DETR have been discussed in the Finance Committee. Some proposed measures whose consequences would have been felt in rural communes, in line with the current criteria for the allocation of the DETR, while they were in the vicinity of a major metropolis, for example. The institutional landscape has changed significantly over the past five years, with the reforms of local communities. We see therefore that it is necessary to put all these elements back to the ground, so that the DETR will feed well the rural communes whose financial situation is difficult, in particular because of their economic and social landscape. We are therefore in favour of the Government's amendment, in order to take a break to study the modalities of the reform of the DETR, in collaboration of course with all opposition groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u32	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u33	I hear your arguments, but you have to pay attention to the diversity of situations. As you know, the department of Maine-et-Loire has embarked on territorial reform in an unusual way: there are a large number of new communes and a community of rural agglomeration. Today, however, the rural communes, especially when located outside the larger ensembles, are losing in terms of DETR. So I'm sorry for the break you're offering. We lost a lot two years ago, and if last year we had been able to receive a small compensation, it would have increased with time. I understand the various arguments, linked to the overall imperfectity of the system, but I insist: the choice made by some municipalities to regroup may be interesting, because it is a carrier of the future, but such a structure must not end up losing in terms of national solidarity. Today, however, this is the case in my department. I agree with your proposal, but I'm sorry. We really need to deal with this in order for everyone to be there, and for the distribution to be fair to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u34	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u35	I recall that in four years, the DETR has increased from 600 million to 1 billion. On the other hand, elected representatives, and especially parliamentarians, as a result of the abolition of the parliamentary reserve, have been better associated. Finally, the change in the administrative map, and particularly the map of intercommunality, has had important consequences. To cite another example than Maine-et-Loire – and I turn to Mr. President – in a large community of agglomeration like that of the Basque Country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u36	Mr. President's not Basque, he's Bearnais!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u37	... many rural communes which were disadvantaged by the old system entered the scheme thanks to Mrs Dupont's amendment. That said, we need to put things down and look at the situation more closely. That is what we are going to work with the Directorate-General for Local and Regional Authorities to eventually change the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u38	Mr Bru, Member of Parliament for the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, will have been sensitive to this speech, which is actually addressed to a Béarnais and not to an Basque!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u39	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 1789.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u40	The amendment aims to lower the threshold for projects eligible for a State subsidy to local authorities and their groups from EUR 150000 to EUR 100000. It often happens, at least in my department, that the departmental commission examining these files finds their small number. If we could look at projects of an amount greater than or equal to 100,000 euros, we would less often feel that we are meeting for little.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u41	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u42	The amendment was not discussed in committee. In fact, it seems to me that the current threshold is 100,000 euros. I have to check – proof that even a rapporteur is subject to doubt, Mr President...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u43	I can't help you answer, because in my home we have made sure that the opposition members do not sit on this committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u44	This is how we organize ourselves in the Béarn and in the Basque Country! In any event, I suggest that Mrs Pires Beaune withdraw the amendment so that we can carry out the verification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u45	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u46	I confirm that the current threshold is 100,000 euros. I therefore also call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u47	I call the credits from the special account "Advances to local authorities", entered in Statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u48	We have completed the review of the appropriations for relations with local authorities, as well as the financial assistance account "Advances to local authorities".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u49	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u50	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u51	We are dealing with the examination of the appropriations relating to the mission "Sport, youth and associative life" (No. 2301, Annex 42; No. 2302, Volume VI). Mrs Perrine Goulet, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u52	Overall, funding for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission is increasing compared to 2019. The Government is requesting €1.42 billion in commitment authority, an increase of 21.2 per cent, and €1.23 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 24 per cent. We welcome this progress, which affects all the programmes of the mission and would like to stress that no action has been taken to reduce its appropriations. With regard to the sport budget, we note an unprecedented level of resources made available to the Ministry: 710 million euros of means of intervention, or 9.8% increase compared to 2019. This budget is based on two programmes. The 219 "Sport" programme is experiencing a significant increase. It has €434.72 million in payment appropriations, an increase of almost 40% over 2019. This is mainly linked to a change of scope, since the compensation credits for the sports technical advisers – CTS – are now budgeted on the mission, for a total of 121 million euros. This development and budget confirm that all STCs remain in their posts for 2020, which should reassure the federations. The action "Development of high-level sport" earns 71 million euros compared to 2019 and the action "Promotion of sport for the greatest number" 36 million euros, up 61%. 2019 was a year of transition. The governance of sport policy has been profoundly changed, with the creation of the National Sport Agency – ANS – responsible for both high performance and practice development. We expressed concerns about this development in our report last year and noted with satisfaction that our remarks were heard. With regard to the budget dedicated to the ANS, we advocate a status quo for 2020, pending the assurance that public subsidies benefit clubs and sport for all, i.e. sport in rural areas, sport in QPV – a priority area of the city's policy –, mandisport and women's sport. However, many issues remain, such as the Agency's funding. If it has been set up as a public interest group, it is still financed exclusively by the State. Madam Minister of Sport, can you inform us about the upcoming negotiations on these issues with other IPTF stakeholders? The sport budget is also based on the 350 program dedicated to the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024. This budget almost doubles compared to 2019, reaching EUR 129.25 million in payment appropriations. We would like to acknowledge the full transparency of the budgetary resources allocated to the preparation of the games. For the first year, the budget yellow shows the totality of public appropriations committed. The French need to be reassured about the maintenance of the budget originally planned; This document provides for this. We welcome the importance attached by the Government and industry to the legacy of the Games. The budget line dedicated to it is abounded with €1.7 million in commitment authorisations, destined for the future laboratory of the French Anti-Doping Agency, a laboratory that will make France shine well beyond 2024. The Terre de Jeux label, for its part, will become real from the beginning of 2020. However, we would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the fact that the state subsidy for the Olympic Games Organizing Committee – the OCOG – originally planned for 2020 is not included in this budget. However, it seems to us imperative that it be paid in 2021. With regard to the 163 "Youth and Associative Life" programme, payment appropriations amounted to €663.7 million, up 8.4%. We welcome the arrival in this programme of a budget line dedicated to the universal national service – SNU – with €30 million. The rise of the SNU is confirmed, since 20,000 young people will be involved next year. We will pay particular attention to the articulation of the UNS with the civic service. We also welcome the EUR 13 million increase in the action "Development of civic service". However, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of National Education and Youth, we would like to draw your attention to the particularly constrained employment ceiling of the Civic Service Agency, which it seems necessary to raise. The budget allocated to youth and popular education remains stable. Associative life benefits from an increase of 54 million euros, almost 20% more than in 2019. While this increase is significant, we would like to highlight some needs: additional FTEs – full-time equivalents – for INJEP, the National Institute of Youth and People's Education; a grant for the FEJ, the Youth Experiment Fund; or a re-evaluation of the FDVA, the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, which we will have the opportunity to discuss during the discussion of the amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With this clarification, we urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for the funds of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u53	Mr Régis Juanico, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u54	At first glance, the funding of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission in 2020 seems to benefit from a sharp increase, with 238 million euros in additional payment appropriations for a total of 1.23 billion euros. But, as with any budget, there is the display and there is the reality. So, when we take into account the scope effects, with the transfer to programme 219 of the payroll of the CTS, and when we exclude the 350 programme devoted to the Olympic Games, the appropriations for sport increase by only 1.7 million euros: I will therefore talk about stagnation. If we add that within the funds allocated to SOLIDEO – the delivery company for Olympic works – only 28 million will be dedicated to sports equipment that will constitute the legacy of the Olympic Games, the increase in the budget is closer to 4% than the 10% posted by the Government, knowing that the means allocated to sport have decreased by 15% between 2017 and 2019, i.e. by almost 80 million euros. This decrease resulted in a sharp decrease in support for sports clubs and associations in the territories, as well as for sports facilities. In addition to this very unfavourable budgetary context, the abolition of aided contracts has been added. Such developments are in complete contrast with the Government's ambitious goal of increasing the number of sports practitioners by 3 million by 2024. The proposed budget for 2020 does not raise the bar; He's just stopping the bleeding. Following the French National Olympic and Sports Committee – CNOSF – which spoke in a forum published in the newspaper The Team this week, I can only regret that the amendments aimed at deploring the taxes on sports policies that I and several of my colleagues defended during the examination of the first part of the PLF have not been adopted. I am thinking in particular of those tabled by our colleagues Jean-Jacques Gaultier and François Cormier-Bouligeon, who tended to raise the ceiling by EUR 15 million: they were adopted in the sitting – a vote cancelled, because the Government had a second debate carried out at three o'clock in the morning. We could have increased the funding of the National Sports Agency for local sports clubs and equipment in the context of the territorial share, which has fallen sharply over the last two years. This would be all the more necessary since the Agency's budget is already insufficient: its resources are set at 278 million euros, while its expenditure in 2020, including its operating costs of 7 million euros, is expected to reach 291 million euros. I would also like to alert you to the situation of the staff of the Ministry of Sports, in particular that of the CTS: the situation is getting worse and the crisis has lasted too long; We must now put an end to it. The status of such staff should be maintained, while deploying a modern human resources management and continuing training policy. The reform of the deconcentrated services of the State for sports, youth and associative life also arouses concern with the disappearance of the DRJSCS – Regional Directorates of Youth, Sports and Social Cohesion – and the DDCS – Departmental Directorates of Social Cohesion. Staff, who will now be attached to the national education services, fear that their missions will be diluted, and that the focus will be on the UNS; This reform may further weaken the Ministry of Sport. While funding for the 163 "Youth and Associative Life" programme is increasing by €51.5 million, this is largely due to the inclusion of €30 million in funding for the universal national service, at the expense of civic service; It only benefits from a 2.6% increase in its resources, i.e. EUR 13 million, while its appropriations have increased by more than EUR 60 million per year on average over the last three years. Following numerous associations and elected officials responsible for youth policies – two forums have been published over the last ten days – I regret the renunciation of the ambition of a broad deployment of civic service. This scheme has reached a ceiling and is at a standstill because of the slowdown in the increase in appropriations; already, in 2019, we saw on the ground that management regulatory measures had to be taken because of financial constraints, affecting the number and duration of missions. These accordion effects are detrimental to all actors, young people and reception facilities. Additional €30 million should be allocated in 2020 to reach the target of 150000 volunteers; the appropriations entered in the PLF only achieve a target of 145,000 volunteers. However, the 30 million euros missing are allocated to the SNU – which concerns only 15,000 young people, not 20,000. However, it is redundant with many mechanisms of national education, with the days of defence and citizenship, and of course with the civic service. Organizing a citizenship journey from an early age, building on the many existing mechanisms, and first of all on the key stage of civic service would be much more relevant and effective. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Despite the reservations I have just expressed, the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has delivered a favourable opinion on the appropriations for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u55	We now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u56	In an excellent film, Le Président, Michel Audiard had Jean Gabin give a formula very appropriate to the budget discussions: "the language of numbers has this in common with the language of flowers that we make him say what we want". For example, if we go over the mission that we have today, we could welcome what appears to be a significant increase in the budget, especially in these times of accounting austerity: appropriations are increasing by 24 per cent, for programmes that are essential to the life of the city, associations, youth and sport. However, the devil often hides in detail. If we can welcome this or that increase in appropriations, that is the very vision you have of these three programmes that we are challenging. I can sum it up as follows: you make associative life and the commitment of young people a derisory palliative to the disengagement of the State; At home, sport rhymes too often with big sponsors. With regard to sport, it should be noted that the dramatic increase in the budget relates mainly to the 350 "Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024" programme. With an increase of 64 million, its appropriations have almost doubled. Of course, we know that the French and French feel a legitimate pride in organizing the Olympic Games of 2024. We have been able to argue that these games demonstrate the taste for healthy competition and for high performance, the international influence of our country; they will enable the construction or modernisation of new sports infrastructure. We agree with all these arguments. I am all the more attentive to this because my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, suffers from a chronic shortage of sports infrastructure: with an average of 16 equipments per 10,000 inhabitants, compared to 49 at national level, it is indeed one of the least well off in metropolitan France. For example, almost one child in every two of the 93 can't swim. And yet, what does it matter that tomorrow a great swimmer arouses admiration and vocation among the youngest at the Games, if, because of the lack of swimming pools, they cannot realize this new desire? Moreover, the legacy of the Games cannot be reduced to the building; democratisation of sports practice Moreover, the legacy of the Games cannot be reduced to the building; The democratisation of sports practice in the medium and long term is undoubtedly one of the most beautiful legacies that the Olympics could leave us. To do so, it is also necessary to support the lives of associations and volunteers who allow daily sports practice in our country, when they have been affected by the abolition of aided contracts and the budgetary anemia of the communities. The practical arrangements for organizing the Games are also a source of concern to me: for example, the planned construction of an Olympic pool between Bondy and Noisy-le-Sec in my constituency would be based on a public-private partnership with Auchan; and it would be flanked by shops, parking lots, hotels. In addition, the National Sport Agency, which could have been a formidable lever, sees its ambitions planed. Its budget, which has barely been established, is already being reduced, by discharging itself on sports federations, on the pretext of granting them greater autonomy. In short, in terms of sport, you are concerned only with "high performance" and "governance", to the detriment of popular sport, which is a vector of popular education. The very expression of popular education seems to be erased from ministerial documentation. The budget allocated to the action "Aid for Youth and People's Education" does not exceed EUR 71 million. This amount is truly derisory in view of the needs of such a mission of general interest. Do I have to remind you that almost 3 million children do not go on vacation, when these allow to awaken a new taste and curiosity among the younger ones, and contribute to learning to live together? In a 2013 parliamentary report, Socialist MEP Michel Ménard estimated that 600 million euros would be enough to make the right to holidays not only a pious wish but a reality. If the budget of the "Youth and Associative Life" programme increases by almost 51 million, I am more than dubative about the allocation of this manna. The proliferation of civic services, far from strengthening the social link, is rather the symptom of the failure of the State and the great difficulties that the voluntary sector is experiencing. In Pôle emploi, in hospitals, in care facilities for the elderly and soon in schools, this easily corvetable, poorly trained and, above all, inexpensive labour force is seen to remedy the shortcomings of the State or public services. Is this your ambition for our youth? Rather than reconnecting with Léo Lagrange's spirit, should we be content with the SNU? For these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party will not be able to vote in favour of the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u57	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u58	The budget before us today shows once again that sport is not considered a priority in our country. You do not go back to the significant declines of the last two years, so this budget confirms the stagnation of the resources devoted to sports practice. Many of us are concerned about the future of the ministry after the 2024 Games. The establishment of the National Sports Agency, such as the attachment of devolved personnel to national education, invites us to consider its future missions. Yet the involvement of the officials of the Ministry of Sport is total. Skills are there, at all levels, throughout the country. The French sport model, however perfect it may be, allows our country to develop genuine public policies in favour of sport for all, as well as in favour of high-performance sport and professional sport. Sports federations operate well overall; Associative networking is very dense, thanks to the support of local and regional authorities. But access to sport is not yet guaranteed for everyone. Obstacles to practice, whether territorial, gender, social or disability-related, are still too many. Equipment is often aging and sometimes poorly adapted. Amateur clubs lack resources to accommodate their graduates. The emergence of so-called free or self-contained practice must prompt us to question the means given to federations to adapt their offer to new demands. The French Anti-Doping Agency must be strengthened to meet the new control policy obligations. Its action must also be legally secured by the ratification of the Ordinance of 19 December 2018 transposing the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code; the relocation of the laboratory to Orsay must be ensured. However, the Ministry of Sport will not be able to meet these challenges if it does not receive the necessary resources for its strategic choices. The way in which the National Sports Agency was set up worries the sports world – the presence of many sports actors and actors on 19 September in the National Assembly, at my invitation and at the invitation of Régis Juanico, showed this. The threat posed by the project to transfer the management of the STCs to the federations continues to hover, despite the tremendous mobilization of the federations to defend their status as civil servants and their independence. Depriving public officials who deploy public policies would be no more or less tantamount to extinguishing them. In reality, beyond budgetary considerations, it is a real battle that we must wage, in order to give sport its full place and to affirm loud and clear that it is a public service in its own right. We must collectively demonstrate the fundamental importance of sport in our society. What is sport? What's it for? How can we protect him from commodification? What should be the place and means of sports associations? What role should sport play in our society in the 21st century? Minister, we could work ahead of your 2020 bill on a founding text. If the promoters of strong and ambitious sports policies, present everywhere in this Chamber – of course I am among them, Madam Minister – speak with one voice, with the actors and actors of sport, and together defend the idea that sport is worthy of public policies of the same scale as those enjoyed by culture, then we can win our battle against blind budget cuts. I would like to take this opportunity to commend my colleagues who have fought for the deflation of the taxes allocated to the financing of sport during the examination of the first part of the PLF; Their amendments had been adopted, and yet the Government, through a second deliberation, had that vote overturned. If we do not build a powerful discourse on the public service of sport, then every year we will continue to deplore the lack of resources of the ministry, and the race for private funding of the National Sport Agency. What a paradoxical situation, as the Prime Minister inaugurated the work for the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024 with you, Madam Minister! With regard to the budget dedicated to youth and associative life, we should note the hyperconcentration of credits on civic service, which concentrates 76.5% of the total. Let us stress this again this year: if we, members of the GDR Group, support the scheme, we consider that it should not be extended to infinity – it risks losing its raison d'être and its effectiveness. The way in which the system is to be avoided – I am thinking in particular of disguised jobs – is not yet satisfactory. Announcements about the possible use of civic service in primary schools are not there to reassure us. In addition, only 17.2 per cent of young people on civic service missions are persons without a diploma. It is necessary to increase efforts to reach this part of the population, to whom the scheme was addressed as a priority. As last year, the Fund for the Development of Associative Life is endowed with €25 million, when the parliamentary reserve allowed €50 million to be allocated to associations. Finally, with regard to the proposed law on community involvement, I urge the Government to assume its responsibilities. Although parliamentary niches allow for progress, the process remains too long. [[Mr Régis Juanico, draftsman of the opinion, applauded]] Members of the GDR Group, attached to the public service of sport and to association life, will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u59	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u60	Each of us has young people at home and associations in his municipality, and each of us does or should do sport. We have this common denominator – I would say almost that treasure – that binds us and that we are all ardently defending. What we don't yet have is the notion of return on investment or cost avoided by associations: we don't know how much associations pay in terms of social benefit, non-offending, jobs, well-being, citizenship. How much does it cost, we constantly ask ourselves; I suggest we ask ourselves how much it's worth. In advance of this point on the PLF for 2020, I propose that together, by the next budget, we can calculate the performance of an association and a sports field, or even the return on investment of a sports educator. Clearly, I propose that we reverse the debate: rather than constantly calculating costs, let us calculate what this relates to the state and society as a whole. I take this opportunity to welcome the 1.5 million associations that make France one of the richest countries in the world, as well as their 21 million members, their 13 million volunteers and their 1.8 million employees. I also welcome the 180,000 sports associations that ensure social cohesion on a daily basis and play an essential role in the education of young people. These are our most concrete tools, the closest to the ground. It is they, so invested in their mission, who weave the first net of protection and emancipation of society. Yet some of them suffer and their leaders are discouraged. Last week, two sports associations in Toulouse sent me distress signals because they are ready to put the key under the door, leaving 400 young people from the city's priority neighbourhoods on the floor; What can I say to them? Let us consider the very positive dimension of this draft budget: the appropriations for the mission "Sport, youth and associative life" for 2020 are up by 24% and the Ministry of Sports will have 710.42 million euros, an increase of 9.8% at constant scope. Sports federations, local actors and businesses gain greater autonomy and responsibility. With the creation of the National Sport Agency as a new governance framework, the Government is encouraging all of us – including us – to practice sport and physical practice at all levels. This institutional overhaul of sports policies makes it possible to achieve major orientations: a constant budget of EUR 194 million for sports clubs and territorial facilities, a genuine support for the sport-health strategy with the labelling of more than 100 sports-health houses by 2019 and the objective of creating 500 by 2022, a national doping prevention plan with EUR 11.1 million, and finally a real ambition in favour of disadvantaged territories in order to develop sports practices for all and everywhere and to achieve the objective of 3 million more practitioners. The budget of the 163 "Youth and Associative Life" programme increases by 8.4% and materializes a strong idea: to revive the desire and commitment of young people in order to exercise a concrete and lasting influence in favour of a more balanced and constructive society. The majority make the choice to invest in 2020 for youth by deploying the universal national service. It's an investment. You had to dare him. Who, so far, had taken concrete action on this age group as a whole? Who had taken the initiative to firmly invite all these teenagers in full motion to pass through the hands of experienced adults, caring but firm, in order to open up horizons for them – if only to take a train, to get out of his environment, to obey constraints, to meet other young people and other confessions – and to discover that they too can be respected and taken into consideration as sixteen-year-old citizens? This youth is precious; In France, it's a rare commodity. Fifteen days of SNU will not transform society in the first year, but it is a great tool to bring young people together, talk to them and motivate them to engage in society constructively. A young person who is helped to become involved at the age of sixteen will continue to be engaged at the age of eighteen. Another benefit of the action in favour of young people is that it enables them to capture their families, which are sometimes more difficult to interest and which have become a priority for many ministers. In the same vein, the goal of civic service in 2020 is to reach 150000 volunteers with EUR 508 million, or 76.5% of the programme's appropriations. It is an investment in commitment, in the continuity of the UNS. As for FDVA's resources, they are sustainable in 2020 with an allocation of €8.12 million, with an additional €8.5 million allocated to the citizen engagement account. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will recall to conclude the importance of the mission "Sport, Youth and Associative Life". What is played on the sports grounds, often naked, homeless or in the gallery, is all the citizenship of a city, it is all the cohesion of a village. Learning respect, sharing, and a sense of nationhood is done at Wednesday training and weekend games. I reaffirm how much the majority is committed to associations, how much they believe in youth, and how proud they are to prepare for the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u61	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u62	The state budget for sport will rise sharply in 2020, we are told. We're not gonna pin on the numbers. I simply note that, at constant scope, this budget – unlike the announcement effects – is hardly evolving. In 2020, the National Agency for Sport will benefit from €284 million from the State: it is a manna similar to last year because the ANS budget, created last April, took into account past commitments from the National Centre for the Development of Sport, the CNDS, which it took over. If the Agency's appropriations – which, let us recall, finance sport for all in all territories – remain stable, those of the Olympic structures fly away. This flight is quite logical in view of the existing infrastructure deficit, particularly in my department of Seine-Saint-Denis, which must host athletes, media and Olympic disciplines such as the swimming event. We will not be squeaking at the figures, but we will point out what they reveal: the lack of ambition of your ministry, Madam Minister, and the absence of a clear course just one year from Tokyo and five years from the most important Olympic Games in the history of French sport. The future of French sport, which is expected to reach consensus, has been under pressure for a year and a half since, in response to the budgetary challenges, the challenge of the role of the State by the sports movement and the questions of the communities about the Government's choices, which has taken the lead in establishing a new institutional framework and in referring to the priority question of why, i.e. the public policy objectives necessary for the establishment of a more active and sportier nation. Let us look at this budget in more detail. The Government is investing €120 million in the financing of STCs under programme 219. The STCs were previously part of the "Solidarity, Integration and Equal Opportunities" programme 124, which, at the same time, was falling sharply. It seems that the idea of entrusting STCs to federations has evolved, but in this case, what about STCs in the future? It is now a matter of linking them to national education; In short, the blur remains. To reassure the minister is not to delay, to soften, to dress the reality of false appearances. Reassuring is to take on clear choices and name them unequivocally. In accordance with the statutes of the ANS, the allocation of appropriations for 2020 will be "built with the Agency's stakeholders", i.e. the sports movement, local authorities and businesses. Under these circumstances, the Department's clarifications regarding the breakdown of the different envelopes appear premature and contribute to the ambient fog. In addition, the press kit of the Ministry of Sports states that it is "public funds other than contributions from partners and private resources". At this time, no other institution than the State has emerged to provide its funding. On what resources will the ANS and, more generally, French sport be able to rely on so that their means really increase? Sponsorship can provide a solution: out of a total annual volume of €3 billion, only 2% finance sport. What ambition does the budget have to make up for this shortfall? None. On the contrary, the Government plans to reduce the rate of tax reduction for payments over €2 million from 60 per cent to 40 per cent. Sport must cease to be seen as a burden. It must be a real investment in the future. Similarly, the successive declines in the funds allocated to the Ministry of Sports for territorial animation, coupled with the decrease in aided contracts and the disappearance of the parliamentary reserve, have had a serious impact on the capacity of the structures to function. Of course, in the "Youth and Associative Life" programme, FDVA's funding is stabilized at €33 million, of which €25 million is dedicated to its new missions. Nevertheless, this new system is largely undersized. You will have understood that, Madam Minister: many questions remain outstanding. We can only praise the attention – relative, but real – paid to sports associations and the recognition of the importance of sport for health, but too much uncertainty remains as to the ambitions of the state, and too much uncertainty weighs on the level of resources allocated to the sports world so that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party can The Republicans vote on this budget as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u63	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u64	The "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" budget mission we are looking at touches on specific areas that are at the heart of the lives of our fellow citizens. The implementation of the various public policies in favour of sport, youth, popular education and associative life is a major challenge in view of the major deadlines in this field, such as the Olympic Games in Paris 2024 and the development of the universal national service. These essential elements can be drivers for achieving our cohesion objective. That is why we wish to commend the Government's ambition and willingness to move forward on these issues and to recall how successful inter-ministerial mobilization is. We must continue along this path and affirm our support for this budget in order to carry out the important reforms undertaken since the beginning of the legislature. This ambition is reflected in the increase in funding for programs 219, "Sport", and 350, "Olympic and Paralympic Games 2024". We are naturally aware of the effect that the integration of STC credits has on this increase; However, the resources allocated to the National Sport Agency will allow the development of sport throughout the territories. Thanks to the locomotive of the Olympic Games, many sustainable equipment will be created in Île-de-France and their impact will extend far beyond that. We pay particular attention to the promotion of sport in all its aspects. First of all, a massive investment in high performance – commitment to our ambitions – must illustrate the desire to arrive at the Games in the best conditions and to prepare a new generation of athletes ready to spread French sport. Secondly, the development of sport for all is equally essential for many reasons: it is scientifically proven that the practice of physical or sporting activity allows among other things to prevent various pathologies – rheumatism, overweight, cancers, and so on. Last point: the transformation of the mode of governance of sport. The funds allocated to the new National Sport Agency underline the strategy of co-construction between the State and its partners for the success of sports policies. After the transition of recent years, we are finally leading to a stabilized model and reinforced means of monitoring in the coming years to evaluate the actions produced. The MODEM Group supports all of these measures, which are translated into practice in this PLF. On the other hand, the appropriations under the 163 "Youth and associative life" programme give a positive and encouraging boost to innovation initiatives and to the coordination of actions. The 2020 budget takes into account the importance of the issue of universal national service. We have already had the opportunity to support this project, which we believe is a true project of society, synonymous with commitment and cohesion for the younger generations. Much remains to be done, and everyone is aware of this, but we must ensure that this experience becomes inevitable. Moreover, the forms and contents of the UNS may evolve, depending on the feedback. I would also like to highlight the additional budgetary effort in favour of the UNS. As for the civil service system, which often links first experience of autonomy and first professional experience or associative engagement, it meets with the support of the public concerned, but also of the actors of the professional and associative worlds. This is an example of synergy to be valued. On the other hand, as we have said in committee, we regret the stagnation of appropriations for actions for popular education. We know that these are mechanisms that work for the autonomy of individuals and that accompany them throughout their lives. As we know, every step towards adulthood is singular, and sometimes it takes time to find its way. Finally, associative life is strengthened. The voluntary sector plays an important role in national cohesion, while being a powerful economic sector, accounting for nearly 10 per cent of private sector employment. In particular, I welcome the additional funds allocated for the training of volunteers through the Citizen Engagement Account and the Personal Training Account. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote on the appropriations for the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u65	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u66	Associations are one of the pillars of the democratic, social and cultural life of our country. More present in France than elsewhere in Europe, they are the least well financed by the public authorities; However, they intervene in a variety of fields, participate actively in the implementation of public policies, guarantee social cohesion and develop collective intelligence: this presentation, due to the Associative Movement, sums up the role of these structures in the territories. In these troubled times, support for associations should be increased and strengthened, as there is agreement on its crucial role in social cohesion. This is not the choice of the Government, which, after having eliminated the assisted jobs, a key support for many associations, has cancelled the parliamentary reserve, which is so essential for small community projects. He had promised to abound accordingly the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, but, in the manoeuvre, 27 million euros volatilized in 2018. We still haven't found them! If the budget allocated to associative life and youth increases in the finance bill for 2020, it is not to support associations, but to put in place a universal service that is still very vague, whose objectives are not measured and which prevents the development of civic services or the upgrading of the second part of the FDVA, known as FDVA 2. In 2020, 30 million euros are allocated to the universal service, 25 million to the financing of community projects: look for error! To bring together young people for two weeks to affirm the values of the Republic and to create a culture of commitment in them, 30 million are planned; for the funding of associations, which, according to the Ministry's figures, bring together 12.7 million volunteers, 23 million members, 52 per cent of whom are seniors, and 1.8 million jobs, representing 1.5 million full-time equivalents, will be 25 million. The budget allocates 4000 euros to each young person for two weeks on universal service, while it devotes the stagnation of funds dedicated to civic services, which nevertheless allow young people to integrate, for six to nine months, into a collective project, to acquire skills and to forge professional experience. The concerns of many associative structures could not escape you: according to them, civic service "is now directly threatened by the universal national service". And the list of stagnations and abandonments of this budget is not closed: aid to the holiday camps and the plan on Wednesday is reduced by 20%, the funds of the Youth and People's Education Cooperation Fund – FONJEP – for the employment of voluntary pilotage workers are frozen, and the FDVA 1 for training within associations stagnates despite the needs. There are also difficulties in managing the FDVA at the local level, due to a lack of human resources in government services. The government's disengagement from work over the past three years has had the effect of increasing user participation from 30 to 40 per cent. In addition to the consequences of the reform of the solidarity tax on wealth: donations to associations have decreased, this movement being called upon to increase with article 50 of this finance bill, which intends to reform the patronage scheme and whose announced effect will be a reduction in corporate donations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u67	We don't hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u68	Last year, I echoed the words of the Secretary of State to the Minister of National Education and Youth, who called the associations "the national treasure" and continued: "They constitute a formidable school of democracy and citizenship. They make the economy more humane and society more supportive, since everyone takes care of others." Then I regretted that the acts did not follow. Today we see that the commercialized society, which I denounced at the time, continues its path; that the ultraliberal logic, where only profitability counts, is multiplied by ever more restrictive calls for projects, killing the local initiative and denying the fabulous laboratory of ideas and innovations that make up the associations. The parliamentary reserve, which I mentioned earlier, financed associative projects to the tune of EUR 52 million. It financed various cultural, sporting and social projects, sometimes for small amounts, but structuring for the association and, above all, for its users. Since its abolition, 25 million euros have abounded the FDVA to continue the financing: 27 million euros have evaporated, like the aided contracts, leaving many associations in great difficulties. The confusing record I had in my constituency in 2018 has not improved in a year. From the abolition of posts to the abolition of activities, several structures have disappeared at the level of a district or commune, and the same can be observed throughout the country. Mr Secretary of State, you can encourage philanthropy to French, but it cannot replace the role of the State in collective life. Today, in France, the latter is based on a developed and dedicated associative fabric, which is professionalizing, constantly adapting to the needs of its users and complying with the requirements of the State. With your budget, you are gradually killing this movement, a structural element of the social cohesion of our territory and crucible of citizenship and living together. [[Mr Régis Juanico, draftsman of the opinion, applauded]] That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote against this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u69	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u70	The budget of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission is on the rise. This is due to perimeter measures, the opening of a budget line of EUR 30 million for the universal national service and the budgetary effort made for the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris. Of course, we welcome the increase in this budget. However, if this increase is brought closer to the goals you have set yourself, one can only wonder about your ability to achieve them. For young people first of all, we see that the resources allocated to civic service are increasing; However, the target is that 145,000 young people will enter this scheme in 2020 and that the Civic Service Agency will expand the scope of the proposed missions. As I said at the outset, our group considers that the resources allocated are not sufficient to achieve these objectives, so that we will defend an amendment aimed at doubling the effort for civic service. Moreover, several actors express their fears and have the impression that the UNS is at the expense of civic service. Mr Secretary of State, you are telling us that the appropriations for the civic service are increasing, but if you are able to spend EUR 30 million on the UNS, you will also have to give the civic service the means to fully deploy. In addition, we question the financing of the universal national service, because if you want to bring together all the French of the same age class by 2022, you will have to make a colossal budgetary effort in the next two financial laws. In the area of sport, the President of the Republic has defended in his presidential programme the 10 per cent increase in the number of lay-offs and their feminization. When we read the annual performance project, we see no progress, or so little progress. I would also like to recall the distress in which local sports associations are evolving, as a result of an inequitable distribution of wealth. Billions of euros circulate; However, little money goes back to associations, while, at the same time, a substantial share of the price of licences goes to sports federations. A better distribution of wealth would allow associations to equip themselves, to be much more active than they already are and to increase their room for manoeuvre. All of this would be in line with the increase in the number of licensees by the end of the quinquennium. We also deplore the lack of sports infrastructure in rural areas, as 73 per cent of the equipment is concentrated in urban areas. We welcome the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024 in France, which represents an exceptional showcase for our country. We hope to beat records and win a maximum of medals, a hundred years after the 1924 Games. Before the Paris Games, there are those in Tokyo: as such, I am the spokesperson of our two New Caledonian colleagues, Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès, and, more broadly, of the New Caledonian government, who proposed, as early as 2016, that French athletes be welcomed to the island, well equipped sportfully and located in a time zone almost identical to that of Tokyo. What about this New Caledonian rear base project, Madam Minister? Within the 350 programme, you create a budget line entitled "Heritage of the Olympic and Paralympic Games", with €1.7 million in commitment authorisations. However, when reading the annual performance project, it would appear that this sum should be spent on the preparation of the move of the laboratory of the French Anti-Doping Agency to the Orsay campus. Since we do not really see the relationship between the budget line and the proposed expenditure, we will be defending an amendment to reallocate these appropriations. To conclude with the associations, our group continues to believe that the removal of the parliamentary reserve for the benefit of the FDVA was a mistake. By focusing on some abuses, you foster distrust of elected officials. The management of these funds by the administration rather than by the elected officials is a dehumanizing and centralizing measure, which keeps the citizen away from the parliamentarians, thus from the republican institutions. For all these reasons, the IUD, Act and Independent Group will abstain from voting on the mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u71	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u72	Today, there are 16 million women and men in about 1.5 million associations, which irrigate our country and create nearly 2 million jobs. These women and men of good will are often, alongside the mayors, the "first of the ropes" in villages, cities and neighbourhoods. They contribute to their animation and to the strengthening of the social bond. They convey and embody the values of the Republic. They are the guarantors of living together and the cement of social cohesion. Finally, they are indispensable actors in the attractiveness of the territories. As you will have understood, my intervention in the review of the credits of the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission will focus on this associative life that volunteers support. Committed, dedicated and generous, they don't count their time or their money. But their voluntary engagement is now under threat. Oh, we'll always find people to volunteer on an ad hoc basis, a few hours, a few days, here and there. On the other hand, the threat weighs heavily on the assumption of responsibilities in associations, which are deterred by administrative and legal complexities, as well as a lack of recognition. In terms of financial resources, associations are the collateral victims of the reduction of State allocations to local and regional authorities. They also suffer directly, as has been said on several occasions, the consequences of the abolition of the parliamentary reservation, which has been attributed in full transparency. Finally, the decline in the purchasing power of our citizens directly affects the amount of donations made by individuals to associations, and the price of fuel can become a barrier to the attractiveness of voluntary activity. The Fund for the Development of Associative Life is not enough. Firstly, because it is not very well known to associations: it is therefore essential that the prefectures promote it more. Secondly, although we welcome the €8.12 million allocation for 2020, this amount seems to me insufficient in view of the wealth of the community network in the territories and its needs; I measure it regularly in my department of Mayenne. The Government has announced in committee its objective of opening the FDVA to private organizations in 2020, so that companies can support associations in the territories. We are reserved, and we believe that clarification is essential, especially since Article 50 of this draft finance law amends the tax system of corporate patronage, creating a ceiling of EUR 2 million, above which the challenge of making a donation increases from 60 % to 40 % of the amount of the donation. Many of us, I believe, have alerted you to the negative consequences of this decision on the financing of associations. Especially as the moment chosen raises the question, since the Prime Minister has ordered a report on patronage from our colleagues Sarah El Haïry and Naïma Moutchou, which will be presented on 15 January next. I would also like to draw your attention to the negative consequences of a reduction – sometimes envisaged – of compensations from 25 % to 10 %, particularly for bodies of general interest of a cultural nature, which increasingly rely on private financing. I am thinking in particular of the independent concert halls and the current music festivals, such as the festival Au hay de la rue, in Mayenne, which gathers around 20,000 festivalgoers each year in a commune of 1500 inhabitants. It would be wrong to say that nothing is being done within this budget to support associative life. Nevertheless, it must be noted that the experiment of the universal national service occupies a very important place in this budget. Other complementary arrangements could have been more extensive, including the citizen engagement account, which saw its resources increase by €8.5 million, and the civic service, which increased by €13 million. I could make the same point about the 219 "Sport" program. Of course, its funding is increasing sharply, but this increase must be relativized, as it is mainly due to the resources allocated to the Olympic and Paralympic Games, which we will host in 2024. Again, the world of associations is the most threatened. There is serious concern among sports associations and clubs in our territories, which are greatly affected by the sharp decrease in the number of contracts assisted. However, the alternative solution to the aided contracts that has been developed – the career path of skills – is inadequate for the situation of many associations, including sports clubs, which need state graduate staff, alongside our volunteers. Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, my conclusion will be as follows: let us be careful to preserve and strengthen the fabric of our associations, as well as the tremendous human wealth that our volunteers are. Their dynamism, commitment and dedication are an opportunity for France, as well as the honour of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u73	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u74	Since 2017, the President of the Republic and the Government have confirmed their commitment to French sport, as well as the full mobilization of the State for the preparation of Paris 2024, in a budgetary context where it is necessary to restore purchasing power to the French. Again this year, this commitment is reflected in the figures of the sports budget. The implementation of the 2018 budget has made it possible to see a public expenditure in favour of sport which has been new for more than ten years. As for the 2019 budget, it has allocated an increase of 55 million euros in our intervention appropriations. Budget 2020 – all speakers recalled – will be the department's largest budget since 2006. For 2020, the budget debate is part of a 9.8% increase in the Ministry of Sport's appropriations, with a constant scope, i.e. a budget of more than EUR 710 million. In the budgetary context that you know, ladies and gentlemen, this is a strong act – without squeaking at the figures. More than 297 million euros will be dedicated to the actions carried out by the Ministry's central administration. Just over EUR 129 million will be allocated for equipment to host the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. Finally, 284 million will be paid to the National Sports Agency, which is strictly equivalent to the amount granted in 2019. Some of you have mentioned a stagnation of its means; For my part, I consider that we ensure their preservation and protection. The budget that I present to you today maintains the budget increases that you voted for last year, including a €15 million plan dedicated to combating drowning, including new, mobile equipment, useful for swimming learning, and training sessions on a new pedagogical approach, which will be offered to teachers in schools, educators in associations and parents of students, thus to the general public. In this way, the Ministry of Sport and the National Sport Agency will indeed have the means of their ambitions in 2020. To illustrate this, I would like to draw your attention to the budgetary priorities that have guided the construction of the financial balances presented to you today. We expect a 7.5% increase in the budget dedicated to the fight against doping, in order to help strengthen the ethics and safety of practitioners. As part of the preparations for the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, we expect a 10% increase in awards for medallists and their companions. In addition, in 2020, we will continue to support the hosting of major sporting events in our territory, with a budget of €6 million. Support for the financing of community facilities and sports practice will cover 250 facilities and more than 15,000 associations, funded by the National Sports Agency in 2019. The stabilization of the State's contribution will help to maintain these balances. Of course, we will continue to pay the remaining 250,000 euros per year from the CNDS, these debts we have found – and well found! - when we get there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u75	It's investment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u76	The €90 million shift for the development of high performance within the National Sport Agency, in order to deploy a new vision of support to our athletes and their companions. This is one of our priorities, and we want new, fairer and more targeted aid. However, as I have had the opportunity to say before you on several occasions, sport policies in France do not stop at the door of my ministry. Sport is a common good. The creation of the National Sports Agency places it at the centre of society. The fight – mine, ours – is to develop it in all ministries, and everywhere in society. Sport, as all speakers have pointed out, is a factor of personal development and pleasure. It is also an essential component of the social link, in education, vocational training, integration, employment and economic development. This is illustrated by last Monday's meeting of the Interdepartmental Committee at the Olympic and Paralympic Games to review measures related to the legacy of the 2024 Games. The Government is mobilizing for sport, building a programme of more than 170 measures to develop the role of sport in public policies. The aim is to carry out public policies for sport, for its actors, but also for sport. Making sport a tool for health and well-being: this is one of the strong axes of our action. We are campaigning to give sport its full place in this area, in particular to combat sedentaryness and encourage the practice of sport by prescription. It is also from this perspective that I want to offer more support to social sports players, and that I defend measures for the development of women's sport and the fight against homophobia, as well as all forms of discrimination, in sport. In conclusion, I would like to share with you the future law on sport, designed to accompany the transformation of our sport model, as well as the development of sport practice for all our citizens. Consideration of the bill in Council of Ministers is scheduled for spring 2020. The aim is to unite your proposals, formulated in various parliamentary reports and legislative proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I started to talk to some of you about this. I want to thank you for your engagement. I would like to thank Bruno Studer, chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, and Céline Calvez, Perrine Goulet and Sandrine Mörch, who, like all of you, have been fully involved in the monitoring of budgetary matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u77	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u78	The Government has an ambition for youth: to give everyone control of their destiny – for them, of course, but also because we are working through them to build our national destiny. Our responsibility is to respond to the present needs of young people, while opening up the field of possibilities, and helping them to invent their future with confidence and optimism. In order to do this, we follow a guideline, that of the society of trust, commitment and mutual assistance, which the President of the Republic calls for, and which he reaffirmed at the end of the great national debate. The Government's youth policy was guided by that spirit. This is in particular the meaning of a mechanism which we will discuss in the context of the examination of this budget, the new universal national service, but also the civic service and more generally all public policies in these areas. In this society, associations occupy an essential place. Such a policy for youth and associative life requires, by its very nature, inter-ministerial mobilization. Youth policies as a whole represent an investment of EUR 95 billion. The State's effort in favour of associations, excluding tax expenditure, amounts to more than EUR 7 billion, which corresponds to some interventions according to which the budget for association life would be limited to EUR 25 million from the FDVA. No, three times no, ten times no! In our budget, 7 billion euros are spent on associative life and associations in our country. This policy is also based on strong partnerships. Its construction is based on a sustained dialogue with local authorities, on the one hand, and with associations and foundations, on the other. The 163 "Youth and Associative Life" programme therefore reflects only a fraction of the nation's effort in these areas, while allowing the state to play an essential role in driving, innovation, professionalisation, inter-ministerial coordination, expertise and regulation. In this programme, four sets of measures for young people deserve to be highlighted. The first concerns access to information, which is a prerequisite for the autonomy of young people. In particular, we must think of the thousands of precarious young people, for whom solutions exist, but who do not benefit because they do not know that they exist. The young people's compass is a new device that will give them answers; We'll speed up its deployment. The second set of measures aims to strengthen international mobility as an important lever for social and vocational integration and the empowerment of young people. On this point too, we need to make a communication effort to improve the readability and accessibility of existing offers, which are increasingly being supported at European level. The third set of measures is aimed at the development of collective receptions for minors and leisure receptions, which encourage cultural and sporting openness while promoting social inclusion. A total of 108 million will be invested to support local and regional authorities in the implementation of the plan on Wednesday, which is in line with some of the interventions on this subject: the budget for the plan does not decrease, nor the budget for holiday settlements. Finally, it is impossible for me to talk about youth without referring to civic service and universal national service. Civic service is a great school of life, which attracts more young people every year. To meet their expectations, we will continue to increase the budget, with a view to reaching 150,000 participants in the civic service in 2020, with a budget of EUR 508 million. A true social project, the universal national service allows young girls and boys, about sixteen years old, to live the values of the Republic, in an experience of social and territorial brewing. Undoubtedly, it will become an important rite of passage in the lives of young people – it is already so for those who have had the chance to participate in its prefiguration this year – towards their access to citizenship and autonomy. His prefiguration began this year. In 2020, it will benefit from a first rise in power, with at least 20,000 or even 30,000 young people expected. It has a budget line of EUR 30 million. The second issue of Program 163 is associative life. Associations occupy an essential place in the collective life of the nation and the functioning of our social model. They are at the heart of the presidential project of a society of trust, commitment and mutual assistance. They are also, in my view, beautiful schools of democracy and citizenship. They must be able to benefit from the support of both the State and private actors. I would point out, in response to some of the comments made earlier, that philanthropy and private support for state support do not make sense, because behind all private support, any act of patronage and philanthropy, any gift – those of individuals included – is a public commitment, in the form of a defiscalisation, thus a tax expenditure at the end. That is why we are giving new impetus to this public policy. By renewing our dialogue with associations and tackling the root causes of their problems, we want to create conditions for structural support and enhanced support, particularly in the areas of employment and financing, with five objectives: to sustain employment in associations, to recognize and value volunteerism, to simplify their administrative procedures, to accompany them in the territories and to enable them to raise funds. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Future of our youth, associative life: I know your commitment to these two subjects, which are so important for national cohesion, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for your attention and look forward to the rich and fruitful dialogue that is about to open.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u79	We come to the question of Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan. Let me remind you that the length of the question, like that of the answer, is limited to two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u80	Ernest Renan rightly said that the nation was "a plebiscite of every day." The community fabric and the love of its volunteers participate at every moment. This model is highly valued by the French. It concerns almost all the population living in France, which participates – thanks to this vitality, combined with the unwavering commitment of volunteers – in a unique democratic laboratory. As our colleagues have pointed out, the figures speak for themselves: 1.3 million associations, 13 million volunteers and nearly 2 million jobs, representing 1% of GDP. The field of sport – which you know very well, Madam Minister – is part of it all the more as it allows for a form of social emancipation of great societal significance. Its inclusive power is linked to the fact that it is – like other sectors, such as culture and music – one of the best devices for physical and psychological health. There is therefore a political axis that deserves to be treated as a matter of priority. However, the family still faces significant difficulties in accessing funding sources, both diverse and complex. It suffers from a fragmentation of energies in the face of contradictory, sometimes inappropriate institutional relations, which lead to paradoxes between aspirations and their realization. Pending the recommendations that we will put before you in our proposal for a law on sport, in particular on the governance of federations, with the election of the presidents of federations by the presidents of clubs, or with equality between women and men on the boards of directors, let us concentrate on the budget. A budget is not only a figure on a paper, but a translation of political will: that is what allows the operational implementation of the development of activities within each club. The President of the Republic is committed to a major reform of sport in France, in particular to promote the development of sport in companies, school sports and health sports houses. How can you assure us, minister, that these objectives will be well achieved by the end of the quinquennium? How can you also facilitate the daily lives of volunteers, especially in their administrative tasks? Digital tools and the power of artificial intelligence could help them to do so, and in particular enable them to obtain the EUR 100 million of European credits available each year under the Erasmus+ programmes, to put passion back at the heart of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u81	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u82	As I said earlier, the Ministry of Sport will have new means of intervention. If, as you said, the figures do not do everything, they at least illustrate the Government's willingness to invest in sport in all its dimensions. These enhanced capacities will enable us to deploy ambitious measures to meet many priorities. Let the children do more sport at school, we work on it, with Jean-Michel Blanquer, around the sports route project. We are experimenting with a formula where mornings are devoted to school and afternoons to sport. In addition, the development of the aquatic ease plan from an early age, at nursery school. Sport in the company will benefit from one of the measures announced at last Monday's interministerial committee: it is a question of exempting from charges the aid granted by companies to their employees to promote sports activity in the professional world. We also want to develop women's sport, in particular by helping athletes who have just had a child. It's a subject I care about. I recently brought together sportsmen to talk, for the first time, about pregnancy during the sports career. We think, however, not only of high-level sportsmen, but also of women who do not practice sport. It is a subject of society: how can we practice sport more when we have just become a mother? Sport must also contribute to health. That is why the labelling of 100 sports-health homes is underway, our goal being that there are 500 of them in 2022. Finally, you mentioned volunteerism. We all agree that without volunteers, sport movement and sports activity for all cannot exist. We talked about it at the interdepartmental committee. We want to open the citizen engagement account to volunteers participating in major international sporting events, such as the upcoming Summer Olympics; We want to allow more sports associations to welcome volunteers from the civic service, because they are still too few to benefit from it. Finally, Gabriel Attal, Jean-Michel Blanquer and I promote the organisation of the sports course as part of the school curriculum. This will allow sports skills, which are now informal, to be included in the children's journey to school and university and then to be better valued.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u83	I call the credits of the mission "Sport, Youth and Associative Life", inscribed in state B. On Amendment No 1859, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The floor is for Mr Régis Juanico, draftsman of the opinion, to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u84	I will be brief, since I have already given a full presentation of this amendment in committee. As I said earlier, the number of civic service volunteers will be between 141000 and 143,000 by the end of 2019. This is less than the target set by the public authorities in recent years. If we want the development of the civic service to continue without the threat of a halt, and if it is to reach 150000 volunteers, it is necessary that EUR 534 million be budgeted for this purpose in the PLF for 2020. The current budget – 508 million – represents an increase of only 2.6%, while, since 2017, the civic service had benefited, on average, an additional 60 million every year. If we want to reach the target of 150000 volunteers, we must abound the credits of 30 million civic service. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u85	Sarah El Haïry, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u86	Every time the budget for civic service goes up, my eyes flickle, because I'm glad. It happens, however, that the increase you are proposing, Mr Juanico, is not in the right budget, and you know that. She's not going in the right direction for a simple reason. If I share your concern to strengthen the civic service – I myself warned the minister at a meeting of the Committee on Education about the need to strengthen the Agency's workforce – I find that the current budget line is on track to reach 150000 beneficiaries. In addition, you want to take 30 million from the appropriations for the universal national service. That is why my opinion will be unfavorable: the SNU is the first step, the republican crucible that will then allow our youth to engage. This first moment of engagement and the hopes it has built must not be opposed to civic service. As this is a journey, the third stage of the UNS will be this universal commitment that will be made possible by a broader civic service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u88	I, too, will be brief not only because I have spoken on this subject in committee, but also because other speakers on all sides of this House have already responded to Mr Juanico's arguments. Mrs Buffet spoke earlier on a point which I believe is essential, and which I myself defend as soon as I have the opportunity to do so: the quality control of civic service missions and the fact that they do not replace jobs. We all agree that civic service must develop. In fact, it has done so continuously since 2017: we are still increasing its budget this year, and we will reach the level of 150,000 beneficiaries that was so much expected by the actors in the civic service for years. But it cannot be considered that the only objective is to increase without thinking about the quality of the missions and ensuring that they do not replace jobs. As I said, on this subject, the state and the public services must sweep away from their doors, and that is what we are doing right now. Another intervention – this time, I believe, from the benches of the right – insisted on the need to increase the diversity of young people welcomed for civic service missions. This is precisely the goal of the universal national service: to make all young people, regardless of their social and geographical origin, discover the commitment at the age of 16, so that they can pursue it, especially through civic service. For all these reasons, I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u89	I put to the vote Amendment No 1859.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u90	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 27 Number of votes cast 27 Absolute majority 14 For adoption 6 Against 21
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u91	On Amendment No 1682, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. On Amendment No 1857, which we shall consider a little later, I have a request from the Socialist and related group for a public vote. Both elections are announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 1682.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u92	His spirit is the same as that of the previous amendment, even if the sums are different. If I have heard the Special Rapporteur correctly, she considers that there is indeed a need for more resources for the civic service, but that Mr Juanico's amendment was simply wrong not to type in the right budget. For my part, I am prepared to amend my amendment if you tell us in which budget these sums should be taken. The minister tells us that too few associations have civic service missions. It also agrees with us, therefore, on the need to increase resources. Let's talk about it! If we agree, we just have to find the right budget to take them. But I am sure that the Committee on Finance will make an interesting proposal on this, and I invite all of you to adopt this excellent amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u93	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u94	You are right, dear colleague, your amendment does not present the same analysis as the previous one: you do not oppose SNU and civic service, that is true. In fact, you want to abound the budget of civic service, and that goes in the right direction. We have a number of options: among the amendments that we are going to consider, we will find, for example, the idea of reallocating inactive funds from the FDVA in order to advance the budget of the civic service. But, as it stands, even if it is not really my budget, I cannot give a favourable opinion to your amendment, which still calls for work on form. In substance, on the other hand, I agree with you. You point to the right problem: how to support the evolution of civic service?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u95	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u96	It is unfavorable, since the summary statement of this amendment indicates that it is intended to achieve the target of 150,000 young people on civic service next year. I would like to reiterate that we will achieve this next year, with the budget currently provided for by the PLF. It is therefore not necessary to draw on sports credits for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u97	I put to the vote Amendment No 1682.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u98	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 26 Number of votes cast 25 Absolute majority 13 For adoption 4 Against 21
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u99	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1895.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u100	It aims to support the community world. Today we do not have an employment system that supports associations. We have seen the effect of the aided contracts, I see the increase of the FONJEP but its subsidies are exclusively reserved for popular education, which does not include the whole of the associative fabric. So I dare to ask for the sum of 200 million. It is considerable, but we must respond to the problem of real associative employment, which comes to support associations for what they are, for what they bring to our social pact and our social model. In order to do this, I propose in this amendment a first course: employment of social utility, supported over three years, with the State contributing 80% of the SMIC in the first year, 60% of the second year and 40% of the third year. The reason is simple: it is about supporting progress, and finally the emancipation of our associations, while providing them with real support. Finally, the aim is to distinguish between integration arrangements and those that support associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u102	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u103	I know your involvement, Madam Special Rapporteur, and the work you are doing on the issue of associative employment. It's a construction site that you've been following since your election in 2017, but that you knew well before, through your journey. We agree with you on the need to develop associative employment. I fully assume the choices that have been made for the transformation of assisted contracts into skilled employment paths, I will not come back to this debate. The question remains of how to develop new tools and a capacity to further support associative employment. I will simply point out that the decision to increase the budget of FONJEP in order to increase the number of posts it finances – 4000 will be created by 2022 – will have as beneficiaries associations other than those of youth and popular education – JEP. I have mainly shifted these new posts to rural areas where, thanks to an extensive acceptance of the JEP domain, we can support other associations. In addition, the current FONJEP posts already support associations other than those of youth and popular education, since different ministries can finance FONJEP in order to create posts to support associations in their sectors: certain posts financed by the General Commission for Equality of the Territories – CGET – are thus dedicated to the priority districts of the city's policy; Others, funded by the Ministry of Culture, are assigned to cultural associations. Departments that want to support community employment in their sector can do this perfectly by using FONJEP. Finally, I would like to point out another important point on the issue of voluntary employment. We have transformed the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – and its counterpart for the non-profit sector, the wage tax credit – CITS – into a decrease in expenses: 1.9 billion euros are returned to associations with employees. This should be stressed, as it is a positive element for associative employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u104	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u105	I agree with Sarah El Haïry on the importance of the notion of civic utility employment. On the other hand, I disagree with the pledge – each one in turn – because it would deprive the sports budget of EUR 200 million – we cannot afford it. Since our discussion in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, an important report has appeared, La France associative en mouvement. He confirms what we were afraid of. We felt it: in 2018, associative employment fell sharply; The number of employees fell by 1%, resulting in the loss of 17,000 jobs. This decrease is more pronounced in some sectors – in particular, it is 3% for sports activities and 8% for cultural activities. These figures should encourage us to keep an eye on voluntary employment, and we will have to go back to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u106	I call Mrs Sarah El Haïry, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u107	I have the same dilemma as Mr. Zumkeller. You had to be sure of something. This is obviously an appeal amendment. Mr Secretary of State, I have taken note of the extension of FONJEP to associations which are not currently eligible. [[Mrs Maud Petit, MM. Yannick Favennec-Becot and Vincent Bru applaud]] On the other hand, with regard to CITS, as you know, only associations that already employ employees benefit from it. The purpose of the amendment is to draw your attention to the accompaniment of associations which do not yet have employees but would need to hire a first one. I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u108	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to support Amendment No. 1857.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u109	In my opening speech, I have already denounced the disappearance of the 27 million euros of the parliamentary reserve that we were still looking for. Since we have found them and since the universal national service does not meet the expectations of young people, we propose to provide an additional €5 million in FDVA 1, dedicated to the training of volunteers and community leaders, and an additional €25 million in FDVA 2, which partially offset the withdrawal of the reserve in 2018. With 50 million euros, the FDVA 2 would thus equal the amount of the reserve credits that were once directed towards the voluntary world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u111	You know how much I care about the universal national service. I will therefore not be able to give an opinion in favour of an amendment which removes EUR 30 million. However, I agree with you on the need to strengthen FDVA 1. Given the novelty of the scheme, not all training credits granted by the Citizen Engagement Account – CEC – may be used. I have tabled an amendment – I don't know what its fate will be – allowing FDVA 1 to receive training credits for volunteers who are not consumed. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u112	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u113	Opinion unfavourable for the reasons mentioned above.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u114	I put to the vote Amendment No 1857.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u115	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 29 Number of votes cast 29 Absolute majority 15 For adoption 7 Against 22
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u116	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1003.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u117	We are all constrained by the rules governing budget amendments to a game – we take sport to give youth and we take youth to give sport – which does not go far. I would like to draw attention to FDVA 2, not only its insufficient amount of EUR 25 million, but also to the fact that associations do not know the procedure for obtaining funding from this fund. How many times have I had to report his existence to associations? The little ones, in particular, completely ignore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u118	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u119	[[MM. Yannick Favennec-Becot, Alain Ramadier and Michel Zumkeller applaud]] How can we make him known to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u121	You said it was an appeal amendment. You're right, information about the fund is essential. I turn to the Secretary of State to ask him how best to communicate on this subject. In addition, in parallel with ongoing developments, the commitment was made to analyse the procedures and use of the fund in each department. With regard to FDVA's abundance, you strongly defended the allocation of so-called inactive association accounts to this fund when considering the proposed law to improve the cash flow of associations. I hope it's one of the tools that will feed the FDVA. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u122	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u123	This amendment highlights a difficulty: too many associations are unaware of the existence of the FDVA. I was able to see this at the forum of the associations of the city of which I am still a municipal councillor. So we have to do better. We have started this work with the prefectures, we will continue it, with the help, in particular, of the rectorates. Parliamentarians can also play an information role through their networks. We need to do better.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u124	Thank you, Secretary of State, for recalling the territorial role of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u125	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor to support Amendment No. 1886.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u126	The success of the Olympic Games will also depend on the involvement of the associations in instilling Olympic energy until 2024. The amendment aims to devote EUR 5 million per year to the Olympic Games to support, through the FDVA, all types of associations contributing to the promotion of the Games. To go in the direction of Marie-George Buffet, this requires knowledge of the fund and the means of access to financing. For lack of resources, we must choose between youth, the Olympic Games and sport. The choice is difficult. Finally, I come back to the idea of a one-stop shop for all associations allowing them to connect with private companies, to facilitate donations, to simplify the lives of volunteers and civil servants, but also to have access to European funds – EUR 100 million per year under the Erasmus + programme are not used because they are difficult to obtain; However, these funds could support a large number of associations and fund exchanges for European children through associative or cultural projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u128	I know how attached you are to associative life and sport. We all live the same dilemma – who to take to give to another? In a moment, I'm going to do the same thing as you, because I also want to abound the FDVA. This fiscal year is complicated, which is why I am addressing the Secretary of State: help us to help you boost the momentum and increase the resources of the fund. The tool we have created will not be enough, it is only one of the stones of the building that is destined to increase the FDVA. I ask you to withdraw, because it is difficult for me to give an opinion against an amendment of which I share the spirit, but, as with Mrs Buffet, Mr Zumkeller, Mrs Dumont or Mr Juanico, writing, forced by budgetary technique, prevents me from approving it. We agree on the objective, we must now collectively find ways to achieve it. Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Minister, you see that all these banks are demanding stronger support for the world of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u129	You had to defuse the taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u131	It is a mistake to oppose the organisation of the Olympic Games and the life of the associations, because our ambition is to involve the associations in the enthusiasm of the Olympic Games. The OCOG will soon launch the "Terre de Jeux" label that the associations will be able to apply for. This will allow them to use the identity of the Olympic Games to reach new audiences. Regional, departmental and possibly municipal sports conferences, organized by the National Sports Agency, will be an opportunity to talk about the Olympic Games as close as possible to the community. The OCOG must also set up an endowment fund of EUR 50 million, which, in addition to the resources made available by the Agency and the federations, will provide financial support to associations in accordance with a new economic model. I know that your main concern is to ensure that sports associations benefit more from the FDVA's resources. It's a fight that Gabriel Attal and I have to fight every day. I also know that you care about the transformation of the business model of associations. We're working on it. Finally, I know that you are campaigning for dematerialization in the service of the associations that we also defend.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u132	I call Mrs Perrine Goulet, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u133	The idea of a one-stop shop seems very interesting to me. Sports associations are indeed eligible for the FDVA, but they can also apply for funding from the ANS; in the budget of the Ministry of Sports, an envelope, which has just been created, is intended for associations that would not be attached to a sports federation, such as the Colosse association with clay feet; Finally, the future departmental or regional bodies – I plead for the maintenance of a departmental parliament for sport – will make it possible to obtain European funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u134	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u135	I do not oppose the Olympic Games to sport or youth. I practice an Olympic discipline in an association and I am also invested in cultural associations. It is not a question of opposing, but of re-creating new energy. I do not know if we can take the date for setting up a working group. Everyone agrees that the system is too complex. The working group would bring together representatives of the various ministries concerned – the Ministry of Sports, the State Secretariat for Associative Life, the Office for Equality of the Territories, the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in particular the State Secretariat for Digital Affairs – in order to simplify the operation for volunteers and for our country. I would be very interested to work with you in this state of mind. I could withdraw the amendment because the new tools and the new culture that would emerge from our work would allow us to identify even more important means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u136	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u137	I confirm my full readiness to move these matters forward with you, Mr. Member. With regard to European funds, work has already been undertaken with Amélie de Montchalin to set up a seed fund that will allow us to immediately pay European grants to associations. Indeed, it is on average two years after they have obtained the agreement of the European authorities that they actually receive the funds. These issues are moving forward, but procedures need to be further simplified. We'll do it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u138	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u139	In view of the Minister's reply, I withdraw my amendment and commit myself to this working group to obtain more European funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u140	I propose to the speakers defending an amendment with the intention of withdrawing it to indicate this in their presentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u141	To withdraw my amendment was not my first intention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u142	I will, of course, give them the floor, but we could then move our debates forward more quickly. This is a request from President Ferrand. Mrs Sarah El Haïry, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1893.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u143	I will have a thought for Mrs Buffet, because this amendment concerns the use of credits from the citizen engagement account. I will, however, withdraw it, because our budgetary constraint does not allow for a proper guarantee of this proposal for the reallocation of appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u144	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1890 and 1894, which can be presented together. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u145	Individual and company donations to associations amount to €7.5 billion per year. Although the Secretary of State had welcomed in committee that the work of the Restos du coeur allowed the State to save EUR 200 million a year, the size of the amounts merely revealed the State's inability to ensure the general interest of its citizens. I would also point out that the associations suffer from unfair tax reforms implemented since the beginning of the quinquennium, such as the drop in aided contracts, the increase in the CSG, the levy at source or the transformation of the solidarity tax on wealth into a tax on property wealth, which reduced the resources of foundations by 150 million euros in 2018. This year, it is in turn the fall in the corporate sponsorship tax reduction rate from 60 to 40 % from a threshold of €2 million in donations to endanger associations, which should be deprived of €400 million in revenue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u146	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u147	Amendment No 1890 seeks to call on the State to offset all these losses for associations by direct funding from the creation of a fund to support associations. This could be constituted by the transfer of funds for the financing of the universal national service, the test phase of which consists of a succession of incidents: insolation of twenty-eight young people, pumps as punishment, presentation of Marshal Pétain as the winner of the Battle of Verdun, humiliation of volunteers by the mentors or simulation of a shooting in the middle of the night. These appropriations would be better allocated if they were earmarked for associations. This appeal amendment therefore provides for a transfer of EUR 30 million from Action 6 "Universal National Service" to Action 1 of a new programme entitled "Fund for Associations". Amendment No 1894 is of the same mind in that it aims to obtain a transfer of funds from the SNU, of which I have just mentioned the merits, to a public fund to abound a system of assistance starting on holiday for children in the working and middle classes. The group of La France insoumis, however, shared the initial objectives of the SNU, which were to strengthen the sense of cohesion between citizens and to ensure a certain social and geographical mix among young people. However, as it stands, we regret the partial and martial nature of the UNS. That is why we propose that the funds attached to it should be directed towards a fund for the collective reception of minors and holiday camps, which are going through an acute crisis and which would make it possible to contribute to the objectives of social cohesion and mixedness, from an early age. Instead of welcoming 18-year-olds, who are already fighting, welcome children from the age of 3 so that they can learn to live together. That is the meaning of the second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u149	I will answer you with two figures, Mrs Rubin: 94% of UNS volunteers expressed satisfaction with their participation – and I refer you to the report of the National Institute of Youth and People's Education for further details; 74% of participants welcomed the social and geographical mix allowed by the UNS. As the latter is destined to become a republican crucible, I will give an unfavorable opinion to your two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u151	I will try not to be too long in the face of so many outbursts and caricatures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u152	Facts, not outrages!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] One thing in your remarks, Mrs Rubin, bothers me deeply, because, if you can instrumentalise the fact that young people unfortunately had a hot blow during a ceremony – without any of them losing consciousness or being hospitalized – it is absolutely scandalous to say that in some part of the universal national service Marshal Pétain was presented as a hero. Do you know where that idea came from, Mrs. Rubin? A false video that circulated on social networks through far-right accounts. I therefore find it particularly deplorable that you are taking it back to your own account in this House. I will not defend the universal national service, because you did not go to a single UNS centre, you did not meet any young people and any UNS mentor, nor did you attend one of the hearings in which I participated in the National Assembly and in which I referred to the UNS. That you criticise it in this House after consulting conspiracy tweets is your choice! Finally, I noted a tasty moment in your speech, when, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, you defended the tax credits for the large companies of CAC 40. I regularly argue that patronage is not like a tax niche, but hearing it from you has, I admit, something tasty and singular. [[Applause on certain benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] I wonder whether your colleagues are aware of the content of your remarks and your criticism of the universal national service. Jean-Luc Mélenchon, during the last presidential campaign, proposed one nine to twelve months for all, while Adrien Quatennens said, on Twitter, support the device, finding it even too short to his liking. Maybe you'd have to give your violins.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u154	On Amendment No 1860, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u155	First of all, I would like to remind you that these are amendments calling for the creation of a fund to support associations, weakened in particular by your tax measures – I will come back – and for departures on holiday, which are a matter of concern to you and whose stakes are primarily financial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u156	It's about avoiding losing face...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u157	As far as the UNS is concerned, I have obviously been a cartoonist, even though I have not mentioned any false information or made any instrumentalisation; I have presented only proven facts. Yes, twenty-eight malaise occurred. You also did not accept all of my comments, which should be listened to in full, Mr Secretary of State. We are indeed in favour of the UNS, but not as it stands. Finally, as far as corporate patronage is concerned, I did not want to tire you with the exhaustive reading of my summary statement, but it says that we are opposed to it if it comes back to a defi-calisation. With these two amendments, we finally announced the decline in the resources available to the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u158	I call Mr Regis Juanico, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 1860.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u159	As you will have noticed, some colleagues would like to increase the appropriations for civic service, when others would like to increase the appropriations for training through FDVA 1 or FDVA 2 with regard to the voluntary funds formerly from the parliamentary reserve. However, we are all obliged, because of the budgetary rules in force, to guarantee our amendments from the appropriations of the mission "Sport, youth and associative life". At least the members of the Socialist and Related Group can rely on an element of coherence, that of being philosophically and politically opposed to the universal national service. Therefore, it does not pose a problem for us to guarantee our proposals on it. I would point out, however, that if, during the examination of the first part of the PLF for 2020, we had adopted certain amendments concerning the revenue from the taxes allocated for the financing of sport, we would have had sufficient revenue to finance all of our proposals discussed this afternoon, including for associative life and not just for sport. I refer to the EUR 109 million I had proposed, rejected by one vote; the EUR 66 million that have not been validated due to an equal vote; and the EUR 15 million first adopted and subsequently withdrawn following a second deliberation requested by the Government. My amendment concerns sport for all. As we know, the National Sport Agency will have to deal with an increasing number of cases from the clubs in our territories in order to obtain operating grants and to acquire more sports equipment. However, according to my calculations, the subsidies granted to amateur sports clubs have fallen by EUR 30 million in two years. The aim of this amendment, which is based on the UNS, is therefore to recover this sum of EUR 30 million in order to finance sport for all and amateur sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u161	I share, Mr Juanico, your concern about the subsidies that clubs need. However, in order to have gone to the sports clubs of my department, the Nièvre, and to have studied the implementation of the federal sports projects, I do not have the assurance that the funds made available have reached the clubs and, beyond that, the sports policies that the State must pursue: sport in the priority areas of the city, sport in rural areas, sport for persons with disabilities, sport for women. I therefore do not wish to provide for an increase in state funding in this area and prefer to maintain budgetary stability, in order to ensure that the implementation of federal sports projects does not benefit primarily the committees and leagues. In view of the first figures, the latter seem to be drawing their pins from the game, as evidenced by the increase in committee funding to the detriment of clubs. It is therefore important to ensure that the funds allocated to the National Sport Agency are used well to implement the public policies of the State I mentioned. In this regard, we plan to conduct audits as part of the Spring Evaluation and review the grants awarded this year. If we find that they have succeeded in applying our sports policies to clubs and not to committees and leagues, you will find me at your side, Mr Juanico. In the meantime, for this year, I would prefer that the budget, which is well calibrated and which meets the needs of the National Sport Agency, remain as it is. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u163	I insisted on that earlier, Mr draftsman: we have preserved the budget of the National Sport Agency. In 2020, this will amount to €284 million, distributed as follows: €194 million for sport for all and €90 million for high-level sport. This year, 29 federations benefited from the experiment. With the federal sports projects, which have replaced the distribution of funds by the CNDS, it is possible, Madam Special Rapporteur, that some associations have been withdrawn from grants; but other associations may also have received subsidies. The landscape may have changed, as a new actor came into play: federations. Nevertheless, the twenty-nine federations concerned told us yesterday – I had brought together seventy federations in the ministry – that the reform is very beneficial to them, because it allows them to deploy a real project to encourage practice in sports clubs. You're talking about the possibility that there's money sleeping in the leagues. Be aware that this was already the case before,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u164	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u165	... when the CNDS gave money to the leagues – I had access to the CNDS documents. Now it's a question of questioning a little...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u166	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u167	... and to make visible what the leagues and committees do for the sports movement and for the territories. This question will be interesting for the associations, which depend on the leagues, but also for the federations and for the ministry. With this preserved budget, Mr draftsman, I can assure you that we are going to act in five important directions, which correspond to the policies of the State which the Special Rapporteur has mentioned. We intend to maintain the level of employment in the territories, thanks to the 5070 jobs of the National Sport Agency, formerly those of the CNDS. We want to generalize federal sports plans for clubs. An increasing number of federations – all of which we hope – will move on to the new configuration in the course of 2020. We will support local sports facilities, paying particular attention to those located overseas. We will implement measures relating to the social performance of sport, supporting socio-sports players. To this end, we planned a budget of EUR 1 million for this year; We finally raised it to 3 million, because we received 800 responses to the call for projects launched in their favour. Previously, neither the department nor the CNDS had been concerned about these associations. We will promote the dissemination of certain sports in plain language, thanks to the audiovisual production support fund. This aspect is of particular interest to me. This year we created a fund for women's sport, which allowed us to support the women's handball league to finance production costs; We're going to do the same for volleyball. It is about better valuing and structuring the sport to the feminine, amateur as well as professional.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u168	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u169	Madam Special Rapporteur, we already have an assessment of the experience of management by the federations. They have returned to a direct relationship with the clubs; In fact, it has been a way to empower them. In the past, as we all know here, many clubs have given up filing a file with the CNDS, discouraged by the complexity and, sometimes, some opacity of the criteria. As for federal sports projects, they are not suspended in the air! In reviewing the Act on the establishment of the National Sport Agency, we ensured that it was consistent with the agreement to be concluded between the Agency and the Ministry of Sport, so that public policies would apply throughout the territories. Did the clubs get hurt? Here are the figures we have: clubs disposed of 12.6 million euros in 2019, compared to 12.8 million in 2018; National committees, of 13.4 million in 2019, compared to 13.1 million in 2018; Regional committees, of 11.2 million in 2019, compared to 11.3 million in 2018. There is therefore relative stability; We cannot speak of a sharp increase in favour of committees and leagues, nor of a marked decline to the detriment of clubs. However, I would like to warn you: during the 2020 campaign, clubs will file much more files. We should not disappoint this request and, therefore, disappoint our clubs and volunteers in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u170	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1860.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u171	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 26 Number of votes cast 25 Absolute majority 13 For adoption 7 Against 18
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u172	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1891.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u173	This is an important amendment, Mr Secretary of State, because it would clarify matters, including from a budgetary point of view. It would remove all doubts, confusion between civic service and universal national service, suspicion of a possible shift from one budget to another. I propose to raise EUR 30 million from the "Youth and Associative Life" programme to create a new programme, "Universal National Service", whose funding would be increased. With this new budget line, we would see very clearly and transparently the budget dedicated specifically to the UNS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u175	I understand your political will and your approach, Madam Special Rapporteur. To hear some of the interventions, I think it will be useful to have a programme dedicated to the UNS, or perhaps a specific mission. Nevertheless, we must adapt to the size of the budget. But we have never seen a programme with only 30 million euros – I'm told, it's to be checked. Last year, the 4 million spent on the UNS was not even included in a budget line. We committed ourselves to creating an action this year, which has been done. When the UNS comes to power, we will create a specific program. I have an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u176	Mr Regis Juanico has the floor to support Amendment No. 1867.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u177	I have already presented it in committee. I believe that, on all benches, we broadly support the ambitious, and very interesting, objective of 3 million more sports practitioners in 2024, above all in clubs, but not only. We all want to collect a very important sporting legacy from the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris. [[Protests on the benches of the GDR group]] My amendment aims to experiment with a Sport pass, following the model of the Culture pass, which is currently being tested. I'm not talking about the Culture Pass, I'm talking about the Sport Pass. I would like to see 50,000 young people benefit next year. As the Prime Minister announced no less than 170 measures last Monday, following the meeting of the interdepartmental committee at the Olympic and Paralympic Games, it is important to identify some strong priorities, to identify levers that will achieve the objective I have recalled. The Sport Pass would help to combat a well-identified problem: dropping out of sport, especially at the time of entry in the fourth stage – it is particularly relevant for girls – when the third and second stages are in progress, and when access to higher education is in progress. It would concern young people between 14 and 20 years of age, to whom 500 euros would be given to equip themselves, to attend sports facilities – for example swimming pools – or to finance part of the cost of a sports license. This is, I repeat, an experiment. Not knowing your opinion on this, minister, this is an opportunity for me to ask you if you think that the Sport Pass is a good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u179	As you rightly pointed out, the draftsman of the opinion, the Prime Minister announced 170 measures at the beginning of the week. As you can see, the Sport Pass is not included. You will understand, then, that my opinion is unfavorable. In substance, however, you have rightly referred to the periods of drop-out, and young people, especially those between the ages of 13 and 18 and 20 years, should be "stopped" to the practice of sport. For my part, when I was younger, I benefited from the activities of the National School Sport Union – UNSS – which are not very expensive. On the UNSS side, the means exist, since the teachers are available. Perhaps it would be appropriate to further promote school sport – this will need to be discussed with the Ministry of National Education. Above all, federations and school sports actors must stop shooting at each other with red balls! [[Marie-George Buffet and Olivia Gregoire applaud]] The main thing is that young people practice sport. If they do not have the means to do so, UNSS can allow them to do so. For practicing sport in this context during my years of college and high school, I can tell you that UNSS is very enriching. I have an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u181	I am very sensitive to your proposal, Mr President-in-Office. I'd be delighted if you could present it to me in more detail. Your amendment relates to the right to sport, particularly for those who cannot afford it and for young people who would not be able to go back to sport when they have done so before. It is an interesting part, and we are currently working on a project that specifically aims to enshrine the right to sport for all. It was originally intended to be part of the 170 measures, but work is still under way. For the moment, we keep the project warm; We'll be reporting soon. In a way, your amendment flatters me: it means that you estimate at 25 million euros the interministerial work that Jean-Michel Blanquer and I are doing right now to promote sport at school, first of all in the first degree – where there are no teachers of EPS – from kindergarten and primary school. As part of the reform of the territorial organization of the State currently being carried out by the Government, the departments of our two ministries will come closer. This is an opportunity for sports associations to invest much more and much better in school time. If we are able to meet the challenge of sharing school time with the community and thus promote the sport of our children on a daily basis, we will have taken a big step. This can be a huge opportunity both for the voluntary sector and for families who are likely to benefit from it. In addition, we will have given real coherence to the territorial reorganization of the State to which we are proceeding. In addition, the sport movement, in conjunction with the NOCSF and the French Paralympic and Sports Committee – CPSF – is currently considering the establishment of simpler and more effective bridges between the practice of sport at school and club practice. As part of the legacy of the Games for the State and the sports movement, a measure will soon be announced: the creation of a real title of access to sports clubs, which could be free in the first year and at a progressive price in the following years. The challenge is to introduce more children to club sports, after they have discovered sport in primary school or even college if the measure is extended to the second degree. I have an unfavorable opinion, but know that we are working on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u182	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u183	My amendment was not intended to quantify public policy aimed at bringing sport closer to school. There would be a lot to say about that. I just want to alert you to certain elements and figures. We have set ourselves the ambitious target of 1,000 school sports sections by 2024. However, as I say very calmly, we are only 200 more sections after two and a half years. At this rate, we'll never make it. According to the latest figures available to me, the experiment of the system "courses in the morning, sport in the afternoon" concerns today 10,000 students out of the 10 million that our country counts. This therefore remains relatively marginal. You mentioned the educational and sporting path, Madam Minister. I fully endorse this measure and will support it. It must now be implemented as part of the citizenship process. In addition, you are very invested in "swim skills". It is important that we provide more resources for 100 per cent of sixth grade students to master this basic knowledge. As far as "knowing how to ride" is concerned, the first-level school certificate is unfortunately not compulsory at this stage, as the necessary resources are not directed towards schools. I wanted to relativize the results achieved at this stage, but you will always find me at your side, Madam Minister, to go further in the rapprochement between sport and school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u184	[[Ms Olivia Gregoire applauds]] I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we move a little faster. Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1889.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u185	I wish to question you, Secretary of State. The Youth Experiment Fund is an excellent tool. The Minister of National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, said last year that he hoped to celebrate his twentieth anniversary. Now, if we don't allocate more money to the YEF, he'll die. My amendment aims to abound the EYF by EUR 15 million. This year, I consider it an appeal amendment. Next year, if we don't find funds to fund the YEF, I'll have it voted. I will withdraw the amendment, but the meeting is set, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u186	[[Smile]] You heard me, Mr. Secretary of State! What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u187	I don't know if I want to respond to these funny words, even though I've heard them correctly. We are, of course, looking for new sources of funding for the EYF, which, in my view, has the particularity – magnificent – of having many possible financiers, including private funds. We therefore share this objective and will do everything in our power to find new funds for the coming year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u188	I call Mr Regis Juanico, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 1865.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u189	I will not be very long, because this is an amendment on sport health and well-being. We will certainly all agree that this should be a priority, which will be reflected in key funding. It will please Mr Attal: I do not want to distort the UNS, but only to squander 3 of his EUR 30 million budget, which would not put the scheme in question. The funds for sport and health and well-being are in the order of €2 million, with €200,000 in new measures. This seems to me to be relatively insufficient if we want a real dynamic, especially around sports-health homes. Their investment credits are not financed, their operating credits are a little financed; 100 of them will be labeled, and 500 will be required by 2022. It would therefore be important for sport, health and well-being to benefit from an additional €3 million, especially since the Ministry of Sport has always been much more active in this field than the Ministry of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u190	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u191	You're going to find me painful, but I like to know where the money goes. At the moment, we don't know what these first 100 healthy sports homes will need. Let us therefore give ourselves a little time again; Let's label these 100 houses, let's let them organize; Then, only, we'll see if they need money. This is the best order in which to proceed. I therefore request the withdrawal of this amendment; If not, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u193	I would like to thank Mrs Goulet for her development. The sport-health strategy launched by Ms. Buzyn, Mr. Taquet and I have reached its first stage this year: the identification of local initiatives, as local authorities have taken the lead, and prescription sport already exists in the Greater East, in Occitanie, in the Biarritz region. Our policy today is to support this movement at the state level, by signing a partnership agreement with a group of mutuals who will commit themselves to repaying physical activity, even if social security, for its part, does not commit itself to it. This year we also obtained the transformation of the medical certificate requested by the associations: from now on, the sports movement will refer to a real follow-up, announced by Mrs Buzyn in the framework of the bill "my health 2022", which we hope to strengthen for minors aged 0 to 18. In addition, as part of the Social Security Financing Bill, you voted in favour of the reimbursement of a physical activity balance sheet for people in remission of cancer. Mr President, your proposal contradicts the very nature of the UNS. In this beautiful project for which we are working with Mr. Attal, sport will of course have its full place. A survey of young people experimenting with the UNS shows that sport is the activity they most want to practice, with which they want to reconcile. In adolescence, as you said, there is a need to understand that sport is good for health and is not just an activity that your parents have enrolled you in your childhood, an activity that you have no sense of after a while. The UNS promotes health through physical activity. Gabriel Attal and I now have the means to jointly pursue this policy of educating young people to health through sport. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u194	On Amendment No 1681, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u195	In the action "Heritage of the Olympic and Paralympic Games" there is a sum of 1.7 million euros, no less, for the relocation of the analytical laboratory of the French Anti-Doping Agency. We don't understand why this amount is recorded here. This question has already been raised in committee, where we have not received an answer. Madam Minister, you said earlier that the Olympic Games money should go to the Olympic Games: that is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u197	Dear colleague, I do not share your logic. The relocation of the laboratory will allow for more sampling; It is therefore necessary for the Olympic Games to take place properly. In addition, the new laboratory will be designed to contribute to the international reach of France, since AFLD carries out analyses abroad. Finally, the amount in question will not be deducted from the envelope for the "Heritage of the Olympic and Paralympic Games" action. I have discussed this with Tony Estanguet, who is a member of the Olympic Games Organizing Committee: we will receive the €50 million registered. The label "Terre de Jeux 2024" arrives in January. The new anti-doping laboratory will therefore be a legacy of the Olympic Games, and these credits are in their rightful place. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u199	Mr President, we attach great importance to the existence of this laboratory and to the fact that it continues in much better conditions than it is today. It is currently housed in a gymnasium in the Ile-de-France sports resource, expertise and performance centre, which is not suitable for the rugby world cup in 2023, then the Olympic Games in 2024. The laboratory must therefore move to premises adapted to these issues. While this measure does not only affect the Olympic Games, it is nevertheless relevant to the legacy of these Games, since, as Perrine Goulet said, the analyses carried out by this laboratory in other international competitions will bring France abroad. They will also attest that the fight against doping by French and foreign athletes is a real challenge for us. Like all the other public policies that we want to stimulate – sustainable development, sport for health, education and inclusion of young people through sport – the anti-doping campaign is carried out by major sporting events, by the Olympic Games in the first place. We want to amplify that momentum. The expansion of the 500-square-metre laboratory will be used specifically for the Olympic Games; This is why part of the EUR 11.6 million spent on the move of the AFLD is on the Games budget line this year. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u200	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u201	We agree that this is EUR 11.6 million in total, of which EUR 1.7 million is for the move?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u202	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u203	On the other hand, the Special Rapporteur, I am very surprised that funds have been included in the "Heritage of the Olympic and Paralympic Games" action which, you say, will not be taken from this action. Is this a surprising conception of budgetary reality, or have I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u204	That's not true! I'll explain it to you again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u205	Let's let Mrs Buffet talk first.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u206	Don't worry, Mr. President. In the end, we have understood very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u207	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u208	This debate allows me to speak on two points. The first is the relocation of the laboratory: I welcome it, because it meets a need, and its new framework – the Orsay campus, isn't it, Madam Minister? – will allow him to be more effective in his research. The second point is the legacy of the Games. Controls at the highest level are necessary, but it is also necessary to give AFLD, for the next four years, the means to continue its controls in the amateur sports community and especially in the commercial halls. Its current budget will make it difficult to carry out these two indispensable missions simultaneously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u209	Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u210	I put to the vote Amendment No 1681.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u211	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 26 Number of votes cast 21 Absolute majority 11 For adoption 3 Against 18
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u212	I call Mrs Cécile Rilhac to support Amendment No. 1879.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u213	The aim of this amendment is to transfer €0.3 million to finance an annual survey on the social impact of sport. It is now essential to measure the real costs and benefits for society of sports policies and major sporting events. In its annual study, published a few days ago, the Council of State denounces the lack of statistical data on sport, despite its ubiquitous presence in society. It is essential to have a scientific assessment of the direct and indirect effects of sport in the main areas where it exerts influence, such as social cohesion, employability, education, equality between men and women, health, but also the development of infrastructure and the attractiveness of the territories. To finance this evaluation would enable public authorities to accurately estimate, in the interest of the general interest, the positive externalities of a policy or event. As our country prepares to host the Rugby World Cup in 2023 and the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024, assessing the social impact of sport would provide relevant content for the concept of inheritance, which must be followed up in concrete terms to achieve positive consequences. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u215	Having discussed your amendment with the Government, I will leave it to the minister to answer you. In any event, I request its withdrawal; If not, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u217	Madam Member, you are right: it is becoming increasingly important to measure the economic, social, environmental impact of sport in general and of major sporting events in particular. This will be the case at the Games; as much to anticipate. The Ryder Cup was the subject of a study by the Observatoire de l'économie du sport, published a few weeks ago. Moreover, as has been said earlier, we support, with the assistance of the National Sport Agency, another type of actor: the socio-sports associations that work in the heart of our neighbourhoods, among the most fragile audiences in our society. We are doing important work in order to structure them, to create a collective whose role will be central, which can in any case be heard in the framework of studies on the social impact of sport in France. I therefore propose that the initiative detailed by your amendment be placed on the agenda of the Observatory for the Economy of Sport. During November, we would work together on a specification; the study would be proposed to the Centre's steering committee and then implemented if selected. I will support it: I made the same response last year to a similar amendment. We can launch such a study; We have the statistical tools developed by the National Institute for Youth and People's Education, which is also part of the Observatory. Co-financed by other actors, it will help to avoid reducing the envelope for the infrastructure needed for the game.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u218	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1899.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u219	This amendment seeks to secure the transfer of so-called inactive accounts to the FDVA, which we wish to abound. The adoption of this measure would complement the legislative arsenal provided for in the proposed law to improve the cash flow of businesses, which we will consider at second reading on 28 November.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u221	We share this objective, which we announced in the road map for the development of associative life and which you have incorporated into your bill. It is important to give this mechanism a legal basis, but I am very bored, because the wording of your amendment is not appropriate in that it infringes Article 17 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789, which is not nothing. On the other hand, we really need to move this issue forward. If this amendment is adopted, we will have to commit ourselves to correcting it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u222	I call Mrs Sarah El Haïry, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u223	I understand Mr. Secretary of State's reservations. I commit myself to correcting the wording of this amendment, if it is adopted, in the course of the shuttle. We do not want to infringe any rights, simply to ensure the operation of the device so that the FDVA is abounded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u224	Rather, it would be up to the Government to commit itself. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u225	Wisdom, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u226	I call Mr Benjamin Dirx to support Amendment No. 1866.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u227	This amendment is intended for the Government to submit to Parliament a report describing the State's financial effort in the field of sport in the form of a yellow budget. Indeed, the State's efforts for sport go far beyond your own ministry. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of National Education and Youth are also concerned, for example. That is why it would be very interesting to have such a document. In order not to increase the number of budget yellows, we propose to delete the one dedicated specifically to the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 to annex it to this new budget yellow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u229	I share your observation, my dear colleague: the funds allocated to sport go far beyond the Ministry of Sport and an inter-ministerial vision would make it possible to make better use of the Government's action in favour of sport. I made the same observation last year when I presented my report to the Prime Minister because it had been difficult for me to gather all this data. Finally, I agree not to multiply the budgetary yellows, even if the one I proposed at the time is sacrificed. Favourable opinion, for the right cause!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u231	Thank you, Madam Special Rapporteur, honourable Member, for your contributions, which I am going to arbitrate with. The seventeenth proposal of the study, which this year the Council of State devoted to sport, joins yours while responding to my philosophy. I've done my best this year to get the sport budget through the doors of the ministry. I believe that this has been achieved because we, together with the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, have succeeded in obtaining from the Prime Minister that €70 million of the investment programme for the future be dedicated to sport. Mrs Buffet is right: the pure and simple analysis of the sport budget does not make it possible to measure the extent to which it irrigates all parts of our society. To devote a yellow budget to sport, along the lines of youth or culture, would allow everyone, and in the first place parliamentarians, to follow the evolution of what is called the legacy of the Games. We must, from now on, leave a trace of the organisation of these Games. I am delighted that we have taken up this task since the implementation of the 2019 budget. I will continue this process next year by feeding the yellow budget as best I can. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u232	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1831.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u233	This amendment is intended for the Government to submit a report to Parliament on equal public investment in sport for women and men. The role of women in sport is increasingly being questioned. They are often discouraged from playing so-called men's sports while so-called women's sports are devalued. Sportsmen, regardless of their level, are often mocked, not taken seriously, even in high-level competitions where they denounce media coverage, salaries and discount financing. The public, especially sportsmen, increasingly aware of these injustices, are waiting for the authorities to react. The women's World Cup, which took place in France in 2019, gives a good illustration: more publicized than usual, it filled the stadiums and broke the audience records, even at the international level, exceeding by 30% that of the previous edition. Many high-level athletes, such as the Swedish "Golden Ball", who boycotted the competition, took the opportunity to denounce the lack of consideration of their discipline and the lack of investment, which has important consequences for practice. Public investment and its distribution are the keys to this inequality. Yves Raibaud and other geographers have highlighted the obvious inequality between sports investments for men and those for women. This report should ensure that public investment in sport benefits both women and men, even if it modulates the distribution of investment for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u235	It is true that women's sport is neither sufficiently developed nor sufficiently publicized, but the report you are proposing will not improve the situation, if only because the data you wish to gather are already included in a cross-cutting policy document on gender equality policy, the objective of reducing inequalities in access to sport. On the other hand, I wonder how we could measure the equality of sports investment between men and women when sports equipment is not "gendered". It would be extremely dangerous to build sports equipment according to the kind of people who will use it. Above all, the practice of women's sport is already followed in programme 219, for example in sports licences. All the data you may need can be found in the cross-sectional policy documents or 219, so I will invite you to withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u237	You are asking the question of equal access for women and men to sports facilities, but this is part of the broader issue of access for all, men and women, disabled and valid people. As the State's mission is to reduce inequalities, we need to focus our policies on disadvantaged audiences or cared for territories. That being said, I recognize that women are an audience that we must give priority to. We are taking steps in this direction, in particular to bring our equipment into line with certain comfort standards: separate changing rooms, easier access to water, provision of sanitary facilities to the standards for the disabled, adaptation of lighting so that the darkness of a stadium, which would not disturb a man, is not a brake on the training of a woman. These are some examples of arrangements that we support, and even put in condition for our funding, in parallel with that of the National Sport Agency. I will also continue to pay attention to the financing of community-based facilities in open practice, such as women-friendly gears or modules, which are increasingly being requested in calls for projects. The sports community is very behind in terms of mix. The right to sport must be the same for men and women. The same delay is found at the level of the governing bodies, sports federations, associations, leagues and committees. I hope you will support next year's action in a new bill to change the governance of sport and ensure a perfect mix in the world of sport. Women and men, through their complementary visions of the world of sport, will be able to address all the themes you have raised and find solutions to promote women's sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u238	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u239	Thank you for that clarification. Far be it from me to want to manage the equipment. I just wanted to encourage mixing in the use of sports equipment. I continue to wonder, however, about the meaning of Yves Raibaud's report, which demonstrated the inequality between sports investment for men and investment for women. What did it mean by investments? Was it just the locker room? That being the case, I thank you for your information. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u240	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1832.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u241	The aim of this amendment is for the Government to submit an information report to Parliament in order to assess the possibility, interest and conditions for the establishment of an autonomous allowance for young people. More and more young people are borrowing from banks to finance their education and daily expenses. They follow the precarious and exhausting part-time work that hinders the smooth running of their studies. This development is the symptom of a society that fails to make effective the principle of republican equality in the face of obstruction and professional success, which discourages young people from the most modest backgrounds from pursuing higher education. The autonomy allowance would be preferable to the current scholarship system in order to put an end to the growing deterioration in the living and study conditions of these young people. It would provide a concrete, symbolic and republican response to the problem of inequalities in education. An information report would assess the cost of this measure, the need for it in our society and compare its effects with the current system. You know, Mr. Secretary of State, the programme of the La France group and its positions. You know that we had proposed an allocation of 800 euros per month for young people aged 18 to 25, for a maximum duration of three years, subject to qualified training and subject to the condition of resources, in parallel with the system of scholarships for courses of more than three years. This report would allow other models to be considered in order to refine our diagnosis, in the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u243	I see very well what you are referring to in referring to the risk that young people who have to work in parallel with their studies are taking. However, a broader reflection is under way on the universal income of activity, the contours of which are not yet drawn. Once this reflection has advanced, it will be possible to combine more specific studies. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u244	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u245	Unfavorable opinion, too. I have obtained, not without difficulty, that a college be set up to study the feasibility of a universal income of activity for young people. It will involve youth organizations, the inter-ministerial delegation to the fight against poverty and the departments of the various ministries; its conclusions are expected before the end of the year. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u246	Mrs Sandrine Mörch has the floor to support Amendment No. 1892.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u247	He asked for a report on the effects of the FDVA on the social impact of the funding of associations. The arguments exchanged during this discussion show that national representation must have greater visibility regarding the use of this fund. I would remind you that the EUR 25 million allocated to FDVA 2, which is practically paid, is only 20% of the total amount of applications. If 53% of the associations that submitted an application have been accompanied under the FDVA, what do we answer to the small associations that are calling for help because they can no longer bear the accounting and administrative costs, nor the expenses allocated to the survival of their club? Their volunteers – who, incidentally, work and raise their children! – are affected by too heavy a workload that often falls within the scope of professional competence. They often keep these associations afloat with the help of their own families, and some are about to return their apron. Yet it is these volunteers who keep the neighbourhoods, resurrect the villages, act as referents to the youth and gain the confidence of their families. It has a price; We have to estimate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u249	Indeed, we need a step back on the FDVA that is recently created. When its impact has been analysed, the eyes will change and we may stop saying that the energy and money spent on the associative world are nothing but useless niches. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u251	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, Member, for your work on the evaluation of the FDVA. I am told that the 2019 Finance Act provided for an annual report on its implementation. As I do not have a reply yet, I give a favourable opinion on your amendment, which ensures that a report will be produced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u252	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1898.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u253	He asked for a report on voluntary employment. It is a warning amendment that I will rework to propose next year a more concrete scheme, different from the aid proposed in the initial draft – 80% of the SMIC in the first year, 60% of the second, 40% of the third.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u255	Opinion unfavourable because several reports were published very recently on the subject, such as that of Jean-Marc Borello or the one published by the association Research &amp; Solidarités. In addition, discussions are under way with the Ministry of Labour on the issue of associative employment; I think she's going in the same direction as yours. I do not think it necessary to add a report to the reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u256	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to support Amendment No. 2322.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u257	I welcome the adoption of Amendment No 1892 calling for a report on the FDVA. He asks for another one: he aims to obtain the number of nationally subsidized files in 2019 in the field of culture, compared to the total number of files funded by FDVA 2. The small number of FDVA files in the field of culture deserves some response from the Government. I wanted to defend this amendment when discussing the budget for the Culture mission, but I am presenting it here for reasons of timing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u258	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u259	Request for withdrawal because your amendment is satisfied with the adoption of Amendment No 1892. If this report is not published before, we will be able to address the issue of cultural funding during the Spring of the Evaluation. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u260	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u261	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice. The annual report on the FDVA foreseen by the amendment just adopted, like the report that will be published in a few weeks – I have just been confirmed that the 2019 PLF only planned a single report covering 2019 – will give the sectoral breakdown of the associations supported. I can already tell you that 19% of the dossiers selected in 2019 under the FDVA were in the field of culture; The sports sector is ranked first, with 30% of the files. Your amendment seems to me to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u262	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u263	I'm happy to take it off. Could you also give us the amount of this aid for culture?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u264	Without revealing the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u265	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u266	I do not have it yet, but the report will be published in a few weeks' time and I pledge to transmit it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u267	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-08-O1063.u268	Next sitting, Tuesday, 12 November, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Continuation of the discussion of the second part of the finance bill for 2020: review of the appropriations of the "Culture" missions "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", "Public authorities" and "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement". The meeting is adjourned.
