ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, on a new reading, of the draft law on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice (No. 1503, 1548) and of the draft organic law on strengthening the organisation of courts (No. 1502, 1549).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the joint general discussion. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u3	Our group has a new time to speak on these texts, which again leads us to question the conditions for their consideration. The first reading was marked by some disorganization and the discussion was finally almost always decided in the same direction. We hope that the very tight vote will lead you to more benevolence and listening to this assembly. That said, let's get to the point: justice. If we were to define it, we would commonly find two meanings. In a first sense, justice is a value. It is, according to Aristotle, the best of virtues, the one that conditions all the others. It allows good life, for oneself and within the city. It therefore occupies a primordial place in the lives of men. In a more contemporary sense, justice is also a public service. As such, it is an activity aimed at the general interest, guaranteed under the control of the public authority and subject to certain principles such as equality, neutrality or freedom. However, the reform we have been discussing for several weeks does not seem to fully agree with this definition. First of all, despite a certain effort, these texts still do not give sufficient means to justice, given the importance it has in our society. Instead of strengthening justice, it is adapted to the lack of resources. Instead of promoting strong and regal justice, this bill enslaves justice to budgetary constraints. Secondly, the justice that is proposed to us here loses all the attributes of a public service: there is no guarantee of neutrality anymore when we entrust missions to administrations that are judges and parties; there is no guarantee of free service when missions are entrusted to private service providers; There is no guarantee of equality in refusing to take the necessary precautions to maintain the territorial grid of the courts. We also find many paradoxes in these texts: compulsory conciliation; the desire to reduce prison sentences at the same time as most of the budget is spent on the construction of prisons; new private platforms to carry out a sovereign mission of the State; the trivialisation of exceptional measures; the desire to bring justice closer to the people at large while taking the risk that courts will disappear in the territories. Despite all the work that has been done in this chamber and by our colleagues in this chamber, we are therefore in the presence of always equally ambiguous texts, which still provide as little guarantees to the people who are litigants, and where the idea of justice is lost in the meandering of budgetary and managerial considerations. We know, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that you are defending this project with ambition and sincerity. However, in the face of so many oppositions on all sides, of all opposition parliamentary groups, of all the legal professions and of so many other institutions, including the Defender of Rights or of the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights, you should be made clear: these texts still have many difficulties. Moreover, far from fully disputing your proposals, we often ask only for safeguards. If there is unanimous agreement on the problems of justice, we all have different solutions on these benches to remedy them, and that is respectable. On the other hand, no one here wants our justice to be transformed, under the guise of modernity, into a private service abandoned by the State and guided by algorithms, more anxious to dispose of business stocks than to render justice for social peace. The IUD, Action and Independents Group has considered at length once again, trying to take into account everything that has been said at first reading and during the debates in committee. The result of this reflection has been the tabling of amendments aimed at introducing measures and frameworks which we consider to be really important, both for the quality of justice, for the justiciable and for access to justice in our territories. We will therefore again present measures to ensure the maintenance of all places of justice. If we have heard that there is, to date, no will to change the judicial card, it seems to us essential to include it in the law, so as not to take any risk for tomorrow. We will also advocate more ambitious budget programming than proposed in these bills. Indeed, the budget allocated to justice still seems to us to be insufficient. The efforts made are notable but will not make it possible to catch up with the backlog that has been accumulated for too long due to chronic underinvestment. Unfortunately, the many merger and mutualisation measures envisaged here seem to demonstrate this. We also want to regulate the possibility for family allowance funds to revise maintenance payments. If the initial idea of dispensing the ordinary judge seemed to us to be a step in the right direction, the discussions revealed many concerns, which we will try to address. The attached report states that the primary tasks of justice are to resolve conflicts and protect the rights and freedoms of citizens. We share this idea, but it seems to us that these texts are moving away from it in practice, and the previous discussions have not always reassured us. The will of pragmatism is understood, but the price must not be the dehumanization of justice and the loss of all symbols. Simplification is sometimes necessary, but be careful: sometimes, what is called "complexity" is in fact the guarantee of safeguarding the rights of everyone. Justice reform is necessary, but one cannot lose sight of its specificity when identifying the keys to its transformation. Computer science can be a convenience when it is necessary, but whatever modernity one aims at, it will never be trivial to be deprived of freedom through the screen of a computer. Similarly, it is perfectly commendable to want to refocus the judge on his core business, but what legitimacy can be given to the many other actors that the bill establishes as quasi-judges? Finally, access to justice for all must be a priority, imposed without concession. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I believe that we must now try to establish a more serene dialogue in order to give us the best chance of reaching consensus laws rather than being adopted with a few votes. This is essential because a text that addresses one of the pillars of the social contract needs such enhanced legitimacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u4	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u5	At the heart of the popular revolt that has been shaking our country for more than two months is a deep feeling of injustice, which corresponds to everyday, very real inequalities: fiscal, social and ecological injustice; injustice of justice itself, according to the saying: "Depending on whether you will be powerful or miserable,/ Court judgments will make you white or black. » To this cry of injustice of the people, the Government and the majority respond with contempt and regression. They respond with contempt by making the modest people pay for some concessions that have been torn from high struggle, while they exonerate the richest, or by organizing at great expense and with great noise a national debate in cardboard, locked by an executive who himself asks questions biased with the aim of having his policy approved. This debate is a little like the so-called consultation on the texts we are debating today, which has been criticized by a large number of legal professionals. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] They respond with regression, in particular by unprecedented police and judicial repression of the popular movement, which makes the autocrats around the world pale with envy and admiration. Let us mention some of your acts of glory: the "preventive dispositions" – these are your very terms, Madam Keeper of Seals – taken to prevent manifestation; Thousands of arrests and police officers, the vast majority of whom are abusive, including high school students, environmental activists or even lawyers. Let us remember, since we must remind you: in democracy, there can be no preventive inquiry, otherwise there is no habeas corpus; In democracy, there can be no connivance between the ministries of justice and the interior to hinder a constitutional right, otherwise there is no balance but collusion of powers either. This regression is also at work in the programming and judicial reform bills that you propose to us, which follow an austere and auteristic logic, profoundly unfair.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u7	These texts are unjust because they are the expression of class justice. As a result, they serve as a fundamentally repressive project. It is by force and the threat of the use of force that the powerful boast of securing order, which is in fact, for them, only the synonym of the unequal society that always brings the same benefit to the work of others. It is class justice, therefore, because it protects the interests of a minority, already materially privileged, who relies on the judicial system to increase its power. It is a two-tiered justice, where the wealth determines the chances of winning a trial. Thus, section 4 of the bill provides that in more litigation cases, it will be possible to dispense with representation by a lawyer and to defend oneself or with the assistance of persons "exclusively attached to his personal service or business". However, for whom is it easier, in a dispute, to defend oneself or to seek the services of people attached to his business? Is it easier for a banker or writer, or for a part-time employee or a farm worker? Who benefits from this so-called simplification? Similarly, to whom does the extension of the scope of mediation benefit, knowing that mediation costs money and that you do not give the necessary means to a genuine public service of mediation, open to all? To the same, to the same, to those who do not need it so much. According to the Defender of Rights, those who, under the current system, face barriers to access to their rights and therefore face the greatest difficulties in administrative procedures are mainly young people, aged 18 to 24 years, farmers, inactive persons, workers and the least educated. In addition, "the greater the degree of precariousness, the more likely the persons concerned are to be penalized by administrative procedures to be carried out online, or even to lack the material equipment necessary to do so". Insecure persons also have less access to their rights because they are less able to conduct an end-to-end appeal procedure to defend them or to defend them, because of the costs, technicality and intimidating nature of the judicial system. To these real problems, the majority respond with an even greater geographical distance from the courts, with the merger of the courts of instance and of the courts of main instance, and the dematerialization of the ever more unequal approaches. You thus reinforce the disparities rather than reduce them. The justice you establish is double-edged. You defend the transfer of judicial powers to the administration or to the private sector, but by refusing to prejudice the change in the reference of sex to civil status, you deny our fellow citizens the right to self-determination and therefore reject the right to equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u8	Yes! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u9	You strengthen the control of the beneficiaries of social rights by decrees published in catini during the truce of confectioners, but when it comes to ensuring the irreproachability of public services in the fight against discrimination, you look up to the sky and reject all our proposals. You are passionately defending the right of companies to hide their illegitimate actions without hindrance, by extending the scope of business secrecy. For those who benefit from it, this measure is indeed a simplification, to the detriment of the work of journalists and whistleblowers. Your justice, class justice, is a repressive justice. You are using repression because the policy you have chosen is to ignore one dimension: social justice. The increase in the budget which you welcome with great exaggeration, Madam Keeper of the Seals, is above all an increase in the resources devoted to confinement. You proudly reiterated that there would be 7,000 additional prison places by 2022 and that funds would be budgeted for an additional 8,000 by 2027. We assume that you will soon put in those who fall victim to the crime of demonstrating that you plan to vote soon. You talk about "effective punishment", "meaning of punishment", "quickness", while you think about monitoring, punishing and locking up the same. As you show a very republican firmness towards those who demonstrate, you bear witness to all jupiterian indulgence to those who benefit from the prince's broads. Is it necessary to recall the example of this protestor who admitted to having committed a fault, presented himself to the court and was immediately placed in pre-trial detention even though he met all the criteria for not being remanded in custody? At the same time, a certain Elysée mission officer walked around the world with two diplomatic passports for six months,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u10	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u11	... after having committed acts of which he continues to deny the seriousness and allowed himself to lie to a parliamentary commission of inquiry. To sum up, your project is the distance between litigants and places of justice, the privatization of the justice system in everyday life, the strengthening of the power of the prosecutor's office, that is, political power, to the detriment of the rights of the defence, which creates serious infringements of the constitutional rights and freedoms that underpin the rule of law. Your bills thus mark a political, social and democratic regression that we strongly oppose. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You're putting in place degraded justice. A degraded justice is a demeaning justice. By dehumanizing and demeaning our judicial system, you are indeed creating the conditions for the growth of popular, social and political revolt, which we very soon hope and work on, will defeat all your policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u12	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u13	In the face of the civil and political turmoil in our country, we could expect the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority to commit themselves to reform otherwise. While justice is one of the pillars of our republican pact, these bills are an example of verticality. On the same day as you launch the great national debate, you keep against the winds and tides of texts that bring together the quasi-unanimity of the judicial world against them. Your justice reform project is indeed negative for the rights of litigants, especially for the most vulnerable populations. For months, all legal professionals – lawyers, magistrates, clerks, academics – have been alerting you to the dangers of this reform, which was neither built with them nor designed for the benefit of the litigants. You ignored these warnings, as you ignored our remarks and amendments during the first reading of the text. Once again, you have acted alone and chosen the passage in force, in haste, in contempt of the intermediate bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u14	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u15	Today, the judiciary has mobilized more strongly than ever before throughout the country to defend the rights of litigants. I was with the demonstrators this morning, in the Seine-Saint-Denis, in front of the Bobigny High Court, then, at noon, Place Saint-Michel, and I was able to see their anger and dismay at the deafness of the Government. Like the yellow vests and all discontented citizens, they feel despised and ignored. Beyond the very content of the reform, it is their exclusion in the drafting of the texts that provokes indignation. Your persistence in exercising power so undemocraticly can only worsen the fractures that are currently going through our society. It is in this context that we are now approaching the examination of your reform as a new reading, unfortunately without much hope of a change of course. Your reform of the justice system, under the guise of simplification and improvement of procedures, actually aims to reduce costs, to hinder access to the judge, to privatize certain aspects of the justice system, rather than to give him the human and material means to carry out his duties. The increase in the budget by 2022 and the breakdown of appropriations are not sufficient. France spends less than 66 euros per year and per capita on its judicial system, when Germany spends 122 euros on it. In addition, of these 66 euros, only 48 euros per year and per capita are dedicated to the courts. The announced budget is absolutely not up to the stakes, given what your predecessor described as a public service of justice "in the process of clocharding." The reform provides for the restriction of the scope of the judge's intervention on mass litigation, i.e. popular litigation. Instead of filling the staff gap, which is essential for mediation and conciliation, the bill seeks to resolve everything through the development of alternative forms of online resolution and even enshrines the opening of a dispute settlement market, which I believe is extremely dangerous. As we know, digitization does not allow for closer justice or simpler justice, but aggravates inequalities. The digital divide is not only a divide in infrastructure according to the territories; It is also a fracture of usage according to distinctions of age, social class, disability or illiteracy. Instead of giving justice the means to function, you have chosen to divert the litigation of everyday life. Your reform proposes, for example, to transfer to the family allowance fund the power to revise the amount of maintenance. However, there is no indication that the CAF, now grouped at the departmental level, will be in a position to provide a faster and simpler service for users. The people I interviewed even say the opposite. Moreover, and this is a perfect illustration of how you conceive the democratic debate, you decided at the last minute, in the general shock and without parliamentary discussion, to initiate the reform of the 1945 Order. Your only project for delinquent childhood is to judge more quickly by considering children as miniature adults, while the 1945 ordinance sees them as adults in the process. What is important in the interests of children is to quickly implement the educational measures and ensure that they are fully exercised to break with the offender's commitment as soon as possible. To that end, of course, the question of the human and material means granted to justice, particularly to juvenile justice, is a must. This is the whole meaning of the rostrum published on 5 November by the children's judges of the Bobigny High Court, who, once again, called for relief in the face of the sharp deterioration of child protection systems in the Seine-Saint-Denis. The delays in taking care of minors at risk are unacceptable: 18 months separate the hearing in which the decision is handed down by the juvenile judge and the assignment of the follow-up to an educator; As for the time limits for criminal judgements, they are about a year. The reasons are known: a clear shortage of staff, magistrates and clerks. "We have become judges of fictitious measures," these magistrates write in their rostrum. Finally, you want to reform the judicial organization of the first instance by bringing together the High Court and the courts of its jurisdiction in a new unified jurisdiction. If you do not want to close the courts, the reorganization of the territorial and material powers of the courts is a radical development whose effects on the litigants must be measured. On the contrary, the distribution of powers which might vary between different courts of main instance may make the judicial organisation less legible and less effective for the person before the court. The proposed scheme does not take into account the need to match the distribution of courts with the needs of the population. Like all legal professionals, the human rights defender rightly points out, with the experience of his nearly 500 delegates in the territories, that the end of community justice will lead to a significant decline in the right of access to the judge for the most vulnerable. In practice, the reform will restrict equality before the law, and hinder access to the law and the judge in the name of the logical sacrosanct budgetary rigour. We will seek in vain, in these texts, where the interest of the justiciable is hidden. Together with all the justice professionals, we strongly oppose this reform, which promotes class justice, down from the expectations expressed by our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As the national debate begins today, you cannot, on the one hand, pretend to listen, discuss and debate, and, on the other hand, move on to your reform. We believe that you must withdraw your bills or, at the very least, establish a moratorium, so that at last a real debate on justice can take place in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u16	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u17	Madam Keeper of the Seals, last autumn, when our assembly examined these texts at first reading, Jean-Michel Clément informed you of the concerns of the Libertés et territoires group with regard to the provisions that you proposed to adopt to reform our justice. As we begin their second reading, let me point out to you that his fears and ours are still so acute. They are shared by many justice professionals, proof that it is not corporatism that drives them, but on the contrary a common desire to build an accessible justice that respects the rights and freedoms of our compatriots. These fears are reinforced by the chaotic conditions under which the reform was discussed at first reading. Our debates have shown us your inability to move towards other proposals, proposals for wisdom and common sense, proposals for local justice, effective and worthy of modern democracy. You have almost systematically rejected the amendments of minority or opposition groups of the National Assembly. You have refused to listen to and hear our warnings about the consequences of some of your actions and to incorporate into your bills the solutions we put before you. Both in committee and in public sittings, the Freedom and Territory Group has worked constructively, but your majority has not deigned to take our contributions into consideration. It also refused to hear the mobilization of the judiciary. This is particularly regrettable at a time when our fellow citizens are calling not only on elected officials but also on the Government to listen more to their difficulties and expectations. There cannot be, on the one hand, a listening posture and, on the other hand, the expression of intransigence. Madam Keeper of the Seals, hear all those who do the daily life of our justice. Hear from the magistrates, who work in understaffed courts and tribunals. Listen to the transplant staff, who work in a jailed justice system. Hear the lawyers, who are not there to slow down the administration of justice, but to fulfill their duty of ensuring the rights of the defence at all times. Therefore, on the occasion of the new reading, I invite you to pay particular attention to the people and professionals who live in the territories, as well as to the messages conveyed by Members who are rooted in the daily lives of our fellow citizens. The Liberties and Territories Group has tabled a number of amendments which aim in particular to preserve and strengthen local justice, to protect the rights of the defence, to ensure equal access to justice for each of our compatriots. We must ensure that we do not upset the organisation of justice by means of amendments tabled at the last minute. The most shocking example is your willingness to see juvenile justice reform by order, even though it is a real social debate and we do not know anything about your intentions regarding the combination of educational measures and sanctions. This is not the right way to proceed. I believe that national representation should be involved in this matter. Our colleague Jean-Michel Clément, a specialist in the subject, would have liked to be heard and have the privilege of participating in the reflection. The conditions under which the two texts before us were adopted at first reading therefore do not seem to us to be in line with a reform of the justice system. Thus, it would have been legitimate for the organic law to be the subject of a solemn vote. As I was telling you right now, the Members of our group have tabled a number of amendments, all guided by the concern for the general interest, the desire to implement a public service of justice close to our citizens, the need to achieve a balanced territorial grid and to move towards a judicial institution organised to respond to the challenges of tomorrow. We hope that on the occasion of the new reading, with your majority, you will open the door to amendments that do not come from your political party or from the ranks of your friends. During the 2017 presidential and legislative campaigns, you promised – like us, in a way – a new world. The Members of the Liberties and Territories Group understood that this new world would enable us to reform our country by listening to everyone, bringing together the living forces of the nation, including its political forces, to work together. Although so far this has not been the case, it is not too late. Accept, for example, the deletion of section 52 A, by which you request that the Government be empowered to proceed by order in order to diversify the modes of care for juvenile offenders. Also, accept the deletion of article 53, which provides for the merger of the High Court and the courts of its jurisdiction into a court of law. In the long run, we believe that this merger will inevitably lead to a recasting of the judicial map, thus helping to keep justice away from citizens and to create judicial deserts. It seems to me essential that, in this area too, all the stakeholders are involved: justice, of course, but also the representatives of the litigants, for example through the departmental committees on access to the law, in which the local elected representatives are present. Also agree to include an obligation to transparency of algorithms used in court decisions processing tools. Beyond regulating the framework for the dissemination of court decisions, it is important to frame the tools that will ensure the exploitation of online decisions. They will provide information on court practices and will provide a basis for analyses and predictions, potentially questionable, on the outcome of certain disputes. That is why, as the Cadiet report was submitted to you a year ago: "The objectivity and quality of these treatments are... an essential issue of transparency. » Accept to take account of our many other amendments on the various articles of your two texts. They come from the realities of the field, the experience and the common sense of the law professionals, who are currently marching against your reform. Freedom, equality, justice and proximity are what must guide you and guide us throughout our debates if we are to achieve a balanced text that meets the challenges. Do not subordinate the organisation of justice to financial contingencies, which are the only compass of Bercy's services, to the exclusion of any qualitative criteria. The quality of justice in digital publishers' data cannot be assessed. Under the guise of savings and rationalization, do not dehumanize our justice by making digital the support of procedures; Nothing can replace the direct relationship between the magistrates and the defendant. Under the guise of simplifying the lives of citizens in the justice system, do not undermine the rights of individuals. Under the guise of strengthening criminal procedure, do not violate the fundamental freedoms of our fellow citizens; Do not remove justice from every one of them. Madam Keeper of the Seals, this new reading offers you the opportunity to provide a clear, forward-looking and respectful response to an effective public service of justice directed at every Frenchman, a public service of justice that we wish to continue to wear proudly as a banner, a public service worthy of this country, which calls itself the country of human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u18	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u19	I am very happy to be able to intervene at this moment because, a short time ago, I was in a commune well known in the Eure, where the President of the Republic gathered elected representatives, including parliamentarians and mayors – he spoke in front of a large assembly – to launch the big debate. It took – I hope she will not blame me – that I leave my neighbour, Ms. Jacqueline Gourault, Minister of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, to join you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and start this beginning of the year with you, as we had agreed for a long time – we had to begin, today, 15 January, the continuation of the review of the constitutional review. So it was said that our steps would cross again, which allows me to offer you my very sincere wishes for success – we will see if this year will mark the success of justice and constitutional review... [[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the LR group and the FI group]] For the time being, I feel like I wake up every morning to experience the same events, just like the day of the marmot in the film Un jour sans fin. We have the impression, in fact, of repeating without end the same arguments. If Christmas and New Year had not allowed us to taste a well-deserved break, while we were somewhat on the patellas after a succession of very short nights, I would really feel like I was repeating myself and rehearsing the same speeches. To start this year by discussing bills that we debated, under the same conditions, just a few weeks ago – while the Senate regretted, at the CMP, which failed, that it was unable to examine the 37 new articles – leaves me somewhat puzzled, regardless of the quality of the interventions. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I have previously admitted to having been unfaithful to you this afternoon, since, as I said, I was in the Eure with the President of the Republic. We were told that there would be a number of debates on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u20	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u21	[[Smile]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I say no, let's go for the debate, which took place this afternoon without annoyance. He may be continuing at the time I'm talking to you – more than six hours, it would be a record, after Marathon Man's day... Let's salute the President's performance! Beyond this somewhat easy end, it might have been thought that the reform of the justice system would be suspended, at least for a few weeks, to consider ways of strengthening proximity and issues relating to the organization of public services. Indeed, among the topics proposed by the President of the Republic is the specific reflection on the desirability of abolishing public services. Of course, there is no question of abolishing justice, but I believe very seriously, without drawing on the string, that the ongoing discussions could have allowed a number of issues to be addressed which have not been addressed at this stage. Several thousand of our friends lawyers, magistrates and clerks, coming from all the bars, were gathered in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u22	There were 8,000 of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u23	Beyond the great debate launched by the President of the Republic, it is difficult not to see in this mobilization the mark of enthusiasm – obviously not of reform – and of a great concern, which will make this beginning of the year somewhat difficult. I see how important it is that the wishes that I wish you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the rapporteur of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, be fulfilled so that you can spend the first few weeks of the year without too much trouble. Beyond the difficulties raised, which could have been included in the scope of the major debate, the observation remains the same: it is the black book of the Public Prosecutor's Office, presented at the 2017 national conference of prosecutors, which considered that our justice is being destroyed, "in the process of clocharding". I don't know who the beauty is and who the tramp is, to continue in the film register, but our justice is breathless: it lacks posts, prison places and a criminal policy, which is to be reaffirmed. Justice has been left in set-aside for too long, especially from 2012 to 2016; It was even then, it seems to me, sacrificed by the dogmatism of a guard of seals who refused a realistic evolution of criminal policy, which, however, was necessary. The prison plan had even been stopped,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u24	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u25	... after which, in the last months of President Hollande's term of office, Jean-Jacques Urvoas, who became guardian of the seals, presented an ambitious plan in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u26	Fault half forgiven!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u27	But it must be admitted that, from the previous quinquennium, the account was not there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u28	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u29	And without Rachida Dati?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u30	I'm afraid he won't be there any more now. Even though this ranking is partly questionable, France ranks twenty-third out of twenty-eight in Europe, perhaps soon out of twenty-seven – it went very badly, a few hours ago, in Westminster, which gives rise to a difficult Brexit. How am I surprised, in these circumstances, that justice is being blocked? It's all in that figure, unfortunately. [[Smile]] Prison remains indispensable, unavoidable in a number of cases. I can see, after turning my eyes for a moment, that the president of the Committee on Laws has replaced the rapporteur: tonight is really magic mirror! Prison remains indispensable, I said, even if it should not be the alpha and omega of criminal policies. What matters is the existence of a real sanction, which is actually carried out, which provides some room for manoeuvre depending on the inmate's behaviour. This justifies the support of a number of us for diversification measures in the construction of prison places. However, I will not insist on it any more, the number of places is insufficient. The promises of the presidential campaign will not be kept, and the 7,000 places which are supposed to be opened by the end of the mandate will not be opened, for various reasons: land not yet acquired, public investigations which cannot be carried out in time, land-use plans or local urban plans not yet discharged from any recourse. In short, we are not at the end of our sorrows! Nor have we found in these texts the will to develop a justice of proximity, so much so. At a time when yellow vests and many of our fellow citizens call for proximity and when the President of the Republic himself goes to a small town in the Eure, the first stage of a round of consultation in France, this dimension is absent from the text. Proximity may disappear as a result of the merger of the courts of main instance and the courts of instance in a departmental judicial court, which may eventually lead to the evaporation of a number of places of justice, which are all points of entry into our beautiful judicial system. Proximity gets further away as digital makes a remarkable arrival, noticed, but perhaps excessive. By replacing men and women with "clicks" on "moulds," as some said, one ends up forgetting that justice is made up of men and women. While access to law and justice is a necessity in a democratic society, I feel that we sometimes lose some essential elements. It is also stated – as you have said on several occasions – that our justice must be inclusive, and that is correct. However, there is nothing in your text on legal aid reform. I understand that a number of work is under way and that others are going to be done, but this important part of the justice system, this door would have gained from being incorporated into the bill. Finally, I would like to refer to the malice, not to say the fault, of reforming juvenile justice by order, pursuant to article 38 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u32	This decision has been imposed on us, like a Deus ex machina– unless it is a Deus ex Jove... It is in any case the worst effect in this time when everything that falls from above is hardly welcome. While it is legitimate for a new President and a new Government to take over the heavy prison record and, more generally, the issue of justice, while the findings are probably now increasingly shared, a number of measures remain insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u33	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the LR Group as well as among non-attached Members]] I conclude: this is why it will probably be difficult – we will come back – to vote for these texts. I hope that, during the discussion of the amendments, we will benefit from a little more openness than was the case at the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u35	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u36	Our judicial system is bankrupt. It is a fact, shared on all sides, that had been asked to be corrected during the previous parliamentary term, without success. This is a failure that our assembly has tried to respond to, in vain. From reading to reading, a step after step in the construction of the texts, this supposed simplification of judicial bodies has encountered profound pitfalls, of which the professionals have repeatedly revealed the seriousness. In the judicial system that you intend to build, the administrative bureaucracy culminates in its zenith and the local justice, to which the French are attached, is still a little weaker. By encouraging the alternative settlement of disputes, you draw the contours of a new form of judicial organization where judges will be deprived of their prerogatives and where mediation will be the response, unique and hasty, to the congestion of prosecutors who will deal with cases outside the presence of the main stakeholders. Article 2 echoes this dangerous attempt. For the sole purpose of preventing the judicialization of disputes, you intend, in order to fulfil accounting objectives, to deprive the judicial authority of its spokesperson and to favour a third authority without legitimacy. The same applies to representation, a notion that our civil code does not explicitly define. With the same aim of encouraging the speed of processing of cases, you make this legal fiction the absolute answer, which makes it less necessary for all actors to be present at the time of the decision. I understand that speed is a principle of our judicial system, which is not a question of questioning, but making it a pretext for an accounting response is dishonest. The desire to dispense with the judge's opinion in proceedings requiring acts of notoriety is a matter of the same unsettled haste. Depriving the judge of his last prerogatives, this is the main word of this text, which entrusts the bodies which owe family benefits the task traditionally assigned to the judges in family matters. These organizations will be given an exercise that they ignores the subtleties, inadequately assessing the reassessments and thus directly harming the beneficiaries. In short, the judicial system to which you aspire is deprived of its natural authorities. It appeals to the speed of execution, to neglected treatment, dependent on accounting profitability, instead of this careful examination to which any judicial decision must naturally be subject and which establishes justice as the cardinal virtues. To deprive the French of legitimate judicial authorities was not enough: it was also necessary to uproot the territorial incarnations. The centralizing demands of the archanes of Parisian power had to be met. Moreover, article 42 bis AA, which seeks to recognize the Paris High Court as the only court competent to judge the modalities of compensation for victims of terrorist acts, speaks quite eloquently. The disappearance of the subsidiary levels is perhaps one of the greatest prejudices of this text: the merger of the activities of the courts of procedure and of the courts of high instance, which you call your wishes, echoes this and may lead to a loss of the judicial exercise of proximity necessary for the daily lives of people. In the absence of reliable assessments on the issue, it was also impossible to know whether such a denaturing of the judicial system would lead to the savings expected by the Government. Accelerate judicial time, deburden prosecutors' offices and prisons: these are guidelines for texts as far away from the citizens as the needs expressed by the competent authorities in this field. Now, it will take a year of legal separation for the divorce to become effective. From now on, it will be sufficient for repeat offenders caught in flagrante delicto to pay a derisory fine to avoid prosecution. Gradually, our prisons will be deserted from criminals, who will be able to enjoy an electronic bracelet whose deterrent effects remain uncertain. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Hérité du quinquennat Hollande, inscribed in the straight line of the modernization of justice hoped for by the socialist potentates of the previous legislature, this text signifies the explosion of our judicial system which the French now look suspiciously at. Rather than freeing the judicial system, your policy locks it up a little more, making the French of common sense a mere suppletive of a world that they condemn because it destroys every day a little more the last acre of our freedoms. I will share this legitimate mistrust by voting against the adoption of these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u37	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u38	"Whether evil destroys or builds, Rampe or be king,/ You know that I will go, Justice,/ I will go to you! If I wish to introduce my remarks with these verses of Victor Hugo, it is that the path to justice, or at least the idea that one is in a state of law, never ends. Because it is fundamentally human, our justice is inherently imperfect. It is judged by some too lax, by others too severe – we have seen it again today – even iniquitous. It is ultimately the mirror of our contradictions, of our society. But our justice is also the last resort of our fellow citizens in troubled moments of their lives. As imperfect as it is, she assumes her role thanks to the women and men who work every day to make her live. At a time when our country needs certainties, I am aware that this obvious imperfection is paradoxically difficult to admit. Our role as legislator is therefore to ensure that we never stop on the way and to adapt our justice to changes in society, in accordance with the principles of the Constitution. It is in this spirit that this text brings, I believe, pragmatic answers, built on broad consultation and rich parliamentary debates. If some are concerned about this project, it is that it announces a real change. As we know, justice reforms have always generated anxiety to which we must respond. Without seeking to be exhaustive, I would like to go back to a few areas of this bill. The first is to give our justice the means to look to the future. Despite budgetary constraints, justice appropriations increased by 3.9% in 2018 and 4.5% in 2019. This increase will, in particular, help to accompany the digital revolution. The digitization of procedures does not dehumanize justice; It makes it more effective, and we have referred here to the guarantees attached to it. But if it is essential to increase the funds of justice, this is obviously not enough. We must also make our justice more accessible to our fellow citizens. As we know, there is no more difficult time than the one when we have to walk through the door of a courtroom. The bill made the choice to promote amicable resolution of disputes, thereby avoiding the involvement of litigants in ever-triggering judicial battles. It is also a matter of providing readability to our judicial organization, with the creation of a single act of referral and the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. The defendant can therefore simply go to the court closest to his or her home. We must also make our criminal justice more effective. This text simplifies the criminal process and, in particular, restores effective investigative time to the JPOs – the judicial police officers – by unloading them from formalities that we know are unnecessary. Other provisions aim to harmonise the conditions for the implementation of investigative means in the light of the different investigative frameworks, obviously under the supervision of a judge. We must then give victims a more meaningful place in criminal justice. The project allows them to file complaints online, which is a real step forward. To those who have expressed reservations about this progress, I reply that our role as legislator is to give the victims the greatest number of opportunities to prosecute their aggressors. Let's not decide for them. As we know, many victims of sexual violence, who will never pass the door of a police station or gendarmerie, may feel more secure via digital means. We must also bring about a shock in the clarity of the sentence. The sentence imposed by the judge, which must be carried out, must be re-emphasized. It is not understandable that prison sentences of less than one month are imposed because their execution does not bring anything to society and only desocializes the convicted person. We see that this is not any prison, on the contrary: the principle of individualization of the sentence is respected. Similarly, the execution of sentences of between one and six months will have to be ensured outside a detention facility, in any case in principle. For sentences between six months and one year, the judge may make the choice of detention such as that of accommodation. For more than a year, any prison sentence will be carried out in detention, without any adjustment ab initio. Finally, it is impossible for me to close my speech without referring to the reform of the Juvenile Justice Ordinance 1945. The bill proposes that the Government be empowered to consolidate into a single code the provisions applicable to juvenile justice and to make the necessary amendments, in the interests of efficiency and legibility. Madam Keeper of the Seals, in the course of the debates, you have recalled a number of guarantees which I believe are essential. The main one is to preserve the founding principles of the 1945 Ordinance, in particular the primacy of education over repression and the dual vocation of the juvenile judge. Building on these principles, we must restore meaning to the justice of children, first of all in the interests of children, of the victims and more broadly in the interests of all our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Through these bills, we are committed to building modern, peaceful justice. We do not forget our republican and humanist convictions, nor the demands made on behalf of our most fragile fellow citizens. We are betting on an open, accessible, readable and modernized justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u39	The joint general discussion is closed. The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u40	I would like to respond briefly to six points raised by the speakers. You mentioned, Mr. Gosselin, your feeling of living An endless day or Marmot Day. For my part, I would say: bis repetita placent. I have no doubt that by presenting these provisions to you again, I will finally convince you! First of all, on the method, you once again claimed that there had been no consultation. I reiterate this before you: there has been listening and consultation with professional unions and other representatives of the legal professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u41	That's not what they say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u42	They could, however, do so: I have enough to attest to the exact number of meetings we have had, myself, my firm or my services, with all of these professions. He would doubtless surprise you, even if, as one of you said, it is not the number that matters but the content. The important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that between the bills before the Council of State and those you are now considering, there have been significant developments. On the one hand, these were the result of my discussions with the representatives of the trade unions in the legal professions, in particular lawyers, whose proposals I have accepted a large number of, and on the other hand, the amendments which the parliamentarians have proposed to me, whether they belong to the majority, to groups close to him or to other groups. I was a little surprised, Mr. Molac, to hear you talk about "financial contingencies" when my ministry's budget is up by 25% – I dare not even repeat it again –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u43	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u44	... the creation of 6,500 jobs and a fairly equitable distribution of this increase between the judiciary and the prison justice, for the year 2019 in any case, with 38 and 39% respectively. You blamed me, Mr. Zumkeller, for adapting justice instead of strengthening it. I think you're harsh because we're certainly strengthening it, in terms of personnel and credits. Several of you have spoken of "privatization of justice", including Mr Zumkeller, I believe, and Mrs Obono. Mr. Little even referred to a "dispute settlement market". I don't think we can be blamed for that, when we are doing exactly the opposite. This "market," as you say, MP Few, it already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u45	You're imposing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u46	We are precisely bringing in elements of regulation and ethics that I think are extremely important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u47	It's a mess!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u48	The intervention of the family allowance funds in the process of revising pensions – and not in setting them up, I would like to stress – has also been a source of criticism. We have heard them and, accordingly, we will again propose amendments to you in a new reading. I would remind you that this is an experiment, that recourse to the judge is preserved and that the implementation of the decision of the Director of the CAF may be the subject of a suspension order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u49	There's going to be some suspensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u50	I find it a pity that we do not draw on what is being done in other countries to make progress in this area. In criminal matters, Mrs Untermaier, you have regretted too many derogations from the common law. You fear that the strengthening of the powers of the prosecutor's office will undermine individual freedoms. Without going into details that I will explain to you later, when we come to the examination of these provisions, I want to reiterate, at this stage, that we have ensured that in any situation these elements are placed under the control of the judge. Whether it is the decisions of the JLD – the judge of freedoms and detention – or the ex post facto appeals, we have ensured that the judge is always present: it is a basic guarantee that we owe to our fellow citizens in protecting individual freedoms. We are also concerned about the victims, as illustrated by the project to create the JIVAT, the judge for the compensation of victims of terrorist acts. Similarly, with regard to the three- and six-month question raised by President Valérie Rabault – I regret that I did not reply directly to her on this point just now – we have provided guarantees, and amendments will allow us to further improve our original proposal. In any case, the concern for the protection of freedoms has always animated us. I will take on board the words of Jean Terlier, who seem to me to be quite opportune in our debates: justice is the "trait of union" that ensures the "cohesion" of society. That is why we have always stressed the guarantee of freedoms. The fifth point, referred to by Mr Gosselin and so many others among you, concerns the fear of the disappearance of local justice, with the merger of the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. It's absolutely nothing! The aim of this merger between IT and TGI is simply to ensure to the litigants that the request that it will introduce will be taken into account more legibly, more easily and more easily. I repeat this once again before you: I guarantee, of course, the maintenance of all the courts. Ms Lorho referred to a denaturation that would lead to the expected savings. However, through this judicial organisation, we expect none of them: we expect only readability and simplification for the litigants. Finally, Mrs Louis referred to digitisation, rightly stressing the importance of dedicated appropriations, and she drew the line as I see it as well. This is an asset not only for the personnel of the justice system, the magistrates, the lawyers – all of whom are already very digitised – but also for the justiciable, whose steps, if he wishes, will be facilitated, including for the filing of a complaint, which Mrs Louis has kindly pointed out. I would add that this will be an additional asset and not a substitute for physical reception, which will be guaranteed throughout the courts. I conclude by referring to the 1945 order, on which we will of course come back during our debate. Mr Gosselin, you spoke of a malice or even a fault. But that's not how I see it! As I said earlier, if we proposed authorization by order, it is to force us to discuss a bill here, all together, in six months' time. I have outlined the principles on which I am based and will not repeat them, since Alexandra Louis has also clarified them. It is absolutely not a question of confiscating the debate or avoiding it, but of forcing us to do so, after a consultation that I want to conduct with you. Mr Molac, if Mr Clément wishes to participate, he will be welcome: the opening is complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u51	We're just as open.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u52	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In short, this project modernises justice more than it transforms it, Erwan Balanant said. If you give me the opportunity to do so, I will focus on its implementation so that we can truly reassure all those who have expressed concerns today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u53	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u54	Several speakers are inscribed on rule 1. Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u55	At first reading, in response to my question, you announced that you would release 12 million for the prison in La Talaudière, which is in a state of advanced obstinateness, so very degraded. It is impossible for prison staff to carry out their public service duties properly and to work in complete safety. It is also impossible to envisage the social and professional reintegration of prisoners, who, while serving the sentence to which they have been sentenced, cannot use their time in prison to learn a profession or simply re-learn the basic rules of life in society. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I salute this first small step, but 12 million will not be enough, far from it. The budget for the construction of the prison of Saint-Bonnet-les-Oules – the famous 70 million euros – must be redeployed to rehabilitate the prison of La Talaudière. I will have the opportunity to come back to that earlier by defending an amendment to that effect. Furthermore, what are you doing to address the issue of prison overcrowding without sending a catastrophic signal to offenders and criminals? What are you doing to improve the working conditions of prison guards? When will you increase the number of overseers, especially at night? On the ground, our fellow citizens tell us that the sentences imposed must be applied, so that the work of the police and gendarmes is not in vain. Our fellow citizens no longer want to read in the press that a multi-recidivist has been released for good conduct and that, three days after his release, he again took action. Mr. Karim Crabent, a stickman from Saint-Étienne, said very precisely yesterday that it is necessary to reform our judicial system because it is obsolete. Your text, however, is not in the right direction by moving the litigants away from the judge. The Paris baton also recalled that there is absolutely no reason why, in the great national debate, there should be a question of social justice, tax justice and no justice at all. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] So, Madam Keeper of the Seals, at the beginning of this year, my wishes will be simple: listen to the French. If you don't mind, I'll invite you to the Loire department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u56	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u57	Last week, I met with representatives of the UFAP-UNSA Justice, FO and CGT unions of the PREJ – the focal point for judicial extractions – of Béziers. The observation is clear: a theoretical number of thirty-four officers for a real number of twenty-eight. Conclusion: a clear lack of staff, complicated working conditions and safety that is not ensured during extractions. In practice, at the national level, union representatives estimate the number of people needed between 2500 and 3000 full-time, whereas by 2020 they will only be 1800. So we're a long way from the point of view. This lack of staff is all the more serious because it does not allow for the dangerousness of the detainees, for example in extractions, since the presentation of the accused during the immediate appearances is systematically qualified in level 1, i.e. two accompanying agents, even if the accused presented has a heavy judicial background. These words, among others, say a lot about the state of our justice: "No one is afraid anymore. Similarly, these repeated phrases to the envious by arrogant inmates against prison staff: "You are only a key ring. It's because of me that you're working. » As for working conditions, between random overtime and changes in schedule overnight, prison officers can no longer do so – and let's not talk about the low attractiveness of wages. As for the conditions of detention of detainees, they are difficult, that is the least one can say. There are just over 1,000 inmates in Gasquinoy – while the prison is planned for about 850 inmates – and according to management, there are 80 mattresses on the floor. It is almost gratifying to see that prison overcrowding, about 10 per cent in Béziers, is therefore in the region's low average prison population. I could go on for a long time. We have heard enough: the budget for justice is increasing, but, I regret, it is still not enough and your current proposals still do not allow us to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u58	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u59	As your bill comes back to our house for discussion earlier this year, the seal keeper, I remember that just a year ago, those issues were already on the Orders of the Day. Indeed, on January 30, 2018, I asked you about these topics during questions to the Government. You then replied – I refer you to the report – that the Raimbourg-Houlillon report made only recommendations, "a number of proposals" which would be "subject to consultation". Since then, he has not been. In your bill, you have strictly applied these recommendations: the specialization of judicial sites, the loss of jurisdiction and influence of the out-of-centered courts, the diversion of proceedings, their digitization, the baremization of compensation. You have not accepted any consultation, any dialogue. At first reading, you rejected almost all of our amendments. The specialisation of judicial sites is the widespread disorganization of our system, the complexification for the justiciable and, above all, the announced death of the eccentric courts. However, last year we witnessed a great mobilization of professionals, including lawyers, but let us not be mistaken: the reform of the justice system is linked with one of the aspects of the contestation of the yellow vests. An active court is a territory, it is an accessible public service, it is also jobs that are linked to it and therefore an entire economy. The government's desire to specialize in the courts is simply the principle of metropolization that applies without shouting. Today, the President of the Republic has initiated a major national debate on issues that affect, inter alia, the functioning of our public services. Why are you trying to pass in force without even listening to what the French and their representatives have to say to you, even that they will tell you at the end of the great concertation launched this day?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u60	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u61	Finally, Madam Keeper of the Seals, if you had really wanted to do something for justice and for the litigants, Article 1 sufficed. Our justice system is good. It faces operational problems related to lack of resources. If you had put in place the means necessary for its proper functioning, there would have been no need to reform the justice system. The first article that you propose and the means dedicated to the functioning of justice will be insufficient for the system to function properly, as we know, you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u63	All positions are not filled. The means that you unlock will allow for more posts, but not all of the posts will be. I come to the essential problem, which you are trying to deny: after the vote on the reform as you want, the courts will disappear. You're merging the courts of first instance and the courts of first instance. The judge in charge of the administration of the district court will disappear and only the head of the court, the head of the court, will have the power of administration. However, article L. 121-3 of the Code of Judicial Organisation provides that, each year, the head of the court shall assign judges "in the various departments of the court". A person who misses one or two magistrates, one or two unfilled posts, may choose not to assign one or two magistrates to a former trial court, which, de facto, will result in its closure. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] You may say that you will reform this article as part of your authorization under article 38 of the Constitution, but you should have done so before. You're going to deprive the heads of jurisdiction of their administrative powers. It is obvious that they would all have been windy standing against this kind of arrangement! Since you do not put the necessary means in place, there will be, in the long run, court closures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u64	Excellent demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u65	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u66	"Justice is freedom in action," wrote Joubert. Without freedom, no justice; without justice, no equality between citizens and loss of sense of belonging to the national community. This vicious circle, or, depending on the options chosen, virtuous, is at the heart of our debate on justice reform. This text, whose content has not really changed since the first reading vote last December, will call for the same opposition on our part if you do not take account of the important developments that need to be taken into account. The judicial authority has a special mission: it must render justice on behalf of the French people. This requires a thorough rethinking of the organization and functioning of our judicial system. The first element is the budgetary aspect: France ranks only 20th out of 45 Council of Europe countries, with €65 per inhabitant of public budget allocated to justice. There is therefore an urgent need for a substantial increase in appropriations. More generally, it is the very philosophy of your project that needs to be revisited. With insufficient funding, increased diversion, criminal laxity, we are responding to rising budgets, increasing the number of magistrates, reorganizing the prison system, and maintaining the role of the trial courts. In Bethune, for example, the merger of the High Court with the High Court will further exacerbate the difficulties of our compatriots in gaining access to the public service of justice. There is an urgent need to put an end to the crisis of trust between the French and their justice. In the face of increasingly violent crime, which is increasingly revealing the enslavement of society, it is high time to replace the certainty of impunity with the guarantee of punishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u67	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u68	I am not far from finding myself in perfect agreement with Mr Savignat: a simple increase in resources, without touching anything else, would have been better than the reform you want to implement. Frankly, governments must be able to put their actions on a long-term basis rather than being subject to reforms every two or two and a half years. There is also a problem with figures: how can you continue, as in committee, to talk about 25% increase? In the attached report, only 24 per cent is mentioned. And by removing the rounding, which suits you well, we have only achieved 23% increase since 2017. And I do not take into account inflation, which is a little higher than usual. We proposed, in an amendment, to set the target of an increase in the justice budget of 25% between 2018 and 2022. It will always be taken. If it were adopted in an adventurous manner, it might put your colleague Darmanin in trouble, but it would probably only be a fair return, given the confiscations that have been carried out on the budget of the Ministry of Justice and the implementation of the public interest judicial agreements concluded with the large banks, which are far less effective in combating fraud than fines imposed in the context of conventional criminal proceedings. The means in your bill are not up to it. They will only achieve target numbers that are not such an ambitious goal. You're talking about an effort of unprecedented magnitude. I want to tell you that this is the minimum trade union if you do not want the ministry to collapse on itself and society to reach an untenable level of tension – although unfortunately the process seems to me to be well under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u69	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor, which we are pleased to hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u70	It's a shared pleasure, Mr. President. I am also very pleased to see Mrs La Custody of Seals, the rapporteur and all of you, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you the year you deserve, much better than the previous year, knowing that the one that will follow will be even better. [[Laughs]] My intervention will focus on the possibility, opened by the bill, of allowing guardians to include in management fees the remuneration of directors without limit of ceiling or prior control. I am talking about it now because this is the moment when I can be present in the Chamber. It seems to me that it amounts to giving them too much freedom when we know that, if some guardians "tute" well, others do so in the interest of their own portfolio. Then, in section 8, you remove the prior authorization of the judge or family council to place funds belonging to the protected person in an account, again without limit of ceiling or control. As the funding of the funeral is also concerned, there is concern that some guardians may want to bury the protected person a little too well. In article 16, the Government proposes the possibility of appointing a person authorized after the hearing of a petition. To protect adults, it is the duty of the legislator to ensure that the same rules are applied. You have understood my fears, Mr. President, and I think you share them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u71	Joker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u72	I hope that the Government will follow me because we can all one day find ourselves on the side of the protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u73	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u74	Once again, the Government is submitting to us a text strongly marked by accounting considerations far removed from what the matrix of justice reform should be: quality and proximity. Instead of meeting the expectations of justice professionals and litigants, it seems to me that you are demeaning the public service of justice and that you are a little more darkening the effectiveness of the rule of law. Rationalization does not mean dehumanization. Economies is not synonymous with the destruction of the territorial grid of justice. Effective justice does not mean diminishing the rights of the defence. Our justice no longer breathes serenity and trust, as should be the case. Our magistrates, our clerks, our lawyers are no longer able to carry out their duties in good conditions. The litigants are rightly concerned. We must achieve a more balanced text, capable of responding to the problems of prevention, repression, reintegration and reparation. However, you should agree to hear the proposals of the Members, who are not all, as you know, from your majority. As my colleague Paul Molac was able to ask you a moment ago, agree to hear the solutions that are on the rise and which the Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group have in their amendments. Allow every citizen to have confidence in the public service of justice and justice to remain close and inclusive. The territories are the identity of France; proximity is the key to efficiency. We ask you to get out of the posture you adopted at first reading. For the benefit of our fellow citizens and the professionals of the justice system, do not harm the local justice system. Put the people in each territory at the heart of your reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u75	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u76	Madam Keeper of the Seals, you are submitting to this House a reform that is disconnected from the realities experienced by litigants and legal professionals. Under the guise of taking over the development of digital technology, you propose to us a dehumanization of justice, which will be a source of additional anguish for the French victims of the fracture of usages. You open the door to virtual justice without providing guarantees for the protection of the rights of litigants. Our public service of justice cannot be robbed. The quality of our judicial organization and its functioning must be strengthened. To preserve a justice of proximity that will guarantee access to justice for every Frenchman, this is the red thread that must guide our debates, at the time when the new reading begins. Today, legal professionals have again expressed their opposition to this text, which disregards their commitment, dedication and skills. Accept to build with them an accessible justice that respects the rights and freedoms of our compatriots. Accept the amendments from the Libertés et Territoires Group. So show wisdom and openness. Our democracy and the confidence of the French in our institutions are at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u77	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 369, 370, 424, 1, 124, 706, 312, 206, 818, 707, 52, 64, 238, 708, 53 and 65, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 370 and 424 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 52, 64 and 238, and 53 and 65. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 369.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u78	At the same time, I will defend No 370, the withdrawal amendment. The aim is to go beyond the budgetary path proposed by the Government. I recognize a positive point in your bill, the keeper of the seals: the choice of a multi-year programming method, which I myself had advocated for some time. It should also be noted that there is an improvement in the means you plan to provide appropriate responses to the crucial challenges facing our judicial system. Unfortunately, your budgetary programming is far from the objectives and means that would be necessary to bring about real solutions and fight against what your predecessor, Mr. Urvoas, called the "closure" of justice. Our judicial system suffers from a shortage of judges, a shortage of prison places, a lack of administrative resources and a very poor execution of sentences, as a result of all budgetary shortcomings. With this amendment, I propose, by 2022, to increase appropriations not by 23.5%, as you are proposing, but by 50%, as set out in Amendment No. 369, or, failing that, by 33.5%, as the Senate had suggested with great relevance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u79	Amendment No 370 has just been defended. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 424.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u80	It is also defended, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u81	Is Amendment No 1 defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u82	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u83	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u84	The increases provided for in this programming bill are very inadequate in the light of the emergency situation in which justice is located. The increase should therefore be reviewed, particularly in response to the suffering of prison staff, who are experiencing difficulties due to understaffing. I am in regular contact with the agents of the prison of La Talaudière, in the Loire department, and I can tell you that their situation is untenable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u85	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 706.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u86	The increases we are proposing in this amendment are those we have included in our programme, The Common Future. We are aiming at EUR 9.5 billion, that is to say little more than the majority, which provides for EUR 8.3 billion. We think you could have made an extra effort. However, it is all about how to disaggregate these sums. Once you have built an additional 7,000 prison places, there will be little left for the rest, including recruitment. Of the 6500 jobs you want to create by 2022, there are already 2300 supervisory jobs planned just to accompany the creation of prison places. If you were to adopt my amendment – I would be the first happy – with 9.5 billion by 2022, we would have, beyond the target number, the means to regain more flexibility, including to achieve the objectives set by the central administration, such as the number of cases per magistrate and clerk. It would no longer be a matter of moving out of a degraded management mode to a normal management mode, but of achieving an efficient and rapid management mode.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u87	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 312.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u88	We recognize the efforts made in this bill. However, France lags far behind its European neighbours, particularly Spain. We therefore propose a slight additional increase so that we do not stop in the middle of the ford and launch a dynamic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u89	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 206.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u90	At first reading, it was widely repeated that the budget of the Ministry of Justice was on the rise compared to those of other ministries: 4.5% compared to 2018, or 7 billion euros more for 2019. It's true, it must be recognized. However, according to last October's statements of the Paris baton, Marie-Aimée Peyron, the means, both human and financial, are not at the rendezvous. In Paris and Béziers, the situation is not bright. First of all, I would like to quote the example of the TGI de Béziers, which, in 2017, could not run at full speed because three of the twenty-three judicial posts were not filled. In general, 22.5 per cent of the staff were short of capacity for normal functioning of the court. In 2018, things improved even though two of the twenty-four judicial positions remain to be filled. As for the staff, there are still four out of a theoretical staff of 68. The trial court, on the other hand, works almost on a single leg, as there are still five out of fourteen missing officers in theory. The second example is that of the prison staff I met on January 7 and 8, which I mentioned earlier. They have drawn my attention to the officers assigned to the linking pole of the judicial extractions. The observation is always the same: lack of staff – 28 agents instead of the planned thirty-four –, difficult working conditions due to the lack of consultation with the judiciary for extraction requisitions, which leads to constant planning changes, sometimes overnight. Finally, there is a real problem of insecurity: all too often, only two officers accompany the inmate, without taking into account his danger, to the detriment of the safety of the citizens since the interventions take place very often on the public road. Beziers is unfortunately not an isolated case. Is the proposed budget sufficient? Will it effectively combat terrorism or radicalization in prison? I do not believe that, which is extremely damaging to the French. That is why I propose that it be re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u91	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 818.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u92	Having been drafted by Mrs Rabault, given her competence in the field of finance, our proposal is realistic and there is no doubt about that. France spends twice as much on per capita justice as Germany. This glaring lack of resources is probably one of the reasons why 63% of our citizens consider justice to be working badly, according to a FIFG poll in March 2017. The aim of this amendment is to increase the budget for justice to 500 million a year, which we believe is entirely reasonable. The great debate will undoubtedly bring to light the immense difficulties encountered on the ground. The increase of 24 per cent, which we welcome, will undoubtedly increase the number of prisons but will remain insufficient to carry out the criminal policy you promise, in particular to develop alternative measures to imprisonment. That is why we propose that you go much further.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u93	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 707.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u94	It tends to make your promise of a 25% increase come true. I'll explain. According to the figures presented – $7 billion in 2018 and $8.3 billion in 2022 – you will see that the increase is only 18.6%. By a clever calculation, you're trying to show that the 25% increase is real, but from 2017 onwards, you don't have to do it. In the appendix, the increase mentioned is 24% and not more than 25% – we lost 1% as we passed. And in the same annex, the increase between 2017 and 2018 is 3.9%. Too bad that Cédric Villani is absent; He could have given us a hand in the calculations. You may want to do it again, starting in 2017, the account isn't there: we don't even reach 24% but only 23%. My proposal will therefore make everyone agree: an increase of 25% between 2018 and 2022, which will bring the appropriations to 8.75 billion euros in 2022, a amount slightly higher than the path originally planned but more than the promises that you are not sluggish about. And I don't go back to the credit cancellations in 2017, the carry-overs, the budget cavalry that goes with it. In any case, it would be more honest to adopt this amendment, which corresponds more to everything you say everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u95	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u96	All speakers noted the impoverishment of justice. The proposed effort – an increase of 23.5% over the period 2018-2022 compared to 2017 – seems to us insufficient to ensure the budgetary recovery of the courts and the prison administration. This amendment aims to provide for an increase of 33 % in appropriations to meet the expectations of the 110 French Bar Associations and 8000 justice professionals, who have demonstrated today in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u97	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u98	It aims to raise the ambition of the 2019-2022 programming bill. It resumes the budget path adopted by the Senate, which is far more ambitious, up to the challenges and the lack of means of justice. We propose a credible increase of more than a third of the appropriations. As Mrs Anthoine has just said, 8000 lawyers have travelled today to make this request heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u99	Mr Jean-Claude Bouchet has the floor to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u100	Prison overcrowding, deteriorating conditions for judges and civil servants, underinvestment in information technology: the impoverishment of justice is a universally shared observation on the benches of this assembly. You propose to increase the justice budget by 24% between 2017 and 2022, or 1.6 billion euros. We can welcome this effort, but it will not be enough to guarantee lasting justice, with the means to be more effective, fairer and faster. The amendment that I am submitting to you therefore seeks to raise the budget path by increasing the appropriations by more than one third.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u101	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 708.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u102	With this amendment, we again propose to increase the number of staff in the public service of justice in order to reach the average of the major European countries, guaranteeing a diversified recruitment. To this end, we have amended the employment forecasts provided for in Article 1 as a result of competition. There is an urgent need to launch a recruitment plan to reduce congestion in the courts, by recruiting 18,000 judges, clerks and administrative staff by 2022 in order to reach at least the European average. To reach the 18,000 net jobs created in 2018, it is necessary to recruit 4,500 people in 2019 and 4,500 each year between 2020 and 2022. The guarding of seals continues to skew, explaining that the situation is different in other European countries but the figures are without appeal: with only ten professional judges per 100,000 inhabitants, a budget of 72 euros per inhabitant dedicated to justice and procedures of an average of 304 days, France ranks among the worst pupils in the European Union. Recall that, according to the Union Syndicat des Magistratures, at the end of 2016, 1000 judicial posts were vacant in France. While the Senate has voted for a more ambitious trajectory than the Government's, it is not sufficient. I repeat that the majority of justice professionals who have been mobilizing in numbers for months would see in the adoption of this amendment a first response to their difficulties, which contribute to the deterioration of justice for the people of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u103	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u104	The bill provides for the creation of 6,500 jobs in the Ministry of Justice between 2018 and 2022, while the bill for the direction and programming bill for the reorganization of justice, adopted on 24 October 2017 by the Senate, had adopted a much more ambitious fiscal trajectory, commensurate with the challenges and the current lack of means of justice, by providing for 13728. That is the number that we believe must be retained to respond to the cruel lack of human resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u105	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u106	It tends to increase the number of job creations in the Ministry of Justice between 2018 and 2022, by resuming the path adopted by the Senate, as the one planned by the Government does not meet the needs of justice. We propose a realistic increase, twice as much as expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u107	I call Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, to give the committee's opinion on this series of identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u108	The diversity and plurality of the proposals to amend Article 1e show the difficulty of the budgetary exercise: to find a balance commensurate with the ambitions and needs that we have all identified for justice, of which we are all aware. The Government proposes to increase the budget of the judiciary by €1.6 billion by the end of the quinquennium, or almost 25% more. Indeed, Mr.Bernalicis, having voted on the 2018 budget in 2017, we are accountable for what was decided at the time in anticipation of the programming bill. Programmed appropriations increased from EUR 6.7 billion to EUR 8.3 billion in 2022. It is also planned to carry out 6500 recruitments, which will not only be dedicated to the prison administration – 832 will be planned for the judicial services, including more than 300 magistrates. The opinion is unfavourable on all the amendments. We all have the ambition of an important budget for justice, but I welcome the considerable and historic effort of almost 25%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u109	The honourable Member has the floor to give her the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u110	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for these amendments, which are all very interesting, because of the local situations that have been mentioned, whether it is La Talaudière – I promise you, Mr Cinieri, to accept your invitation as soon as possible –, Béthune or Béziers. In essence, you describe the reality of our judicial territory. However, I cannot accept the budgetary trajectories that you propose. Do not accuse me of rejecting all the amendments but acknowledge that we are following different logics. For my part, I propose an ambitious programming bill – I will not repeat the details of judicial or prison real estate programming, recruitment of magistrates or digital ones – and realistic. On the contrary, your proposals are neither credible nor sustainable in the current context.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u111	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u112	That's why I can't follow you. Mrs Untermaier, with all due respect, I would like to point out that you are proposing an increase of EUR 500 million per year, or 2.5 billion over five years, while my "pre-decessor", Mr Urvoas, wanted only an increase of EUR 1 billion over the same period. You know very well that if you did not do so under the previous quinquennium, during which you were nevertheless driven by a real ambition for justice, it was because you had become aware of budgetary constraints. We are in the same situation, but where, during the previous quinquennium, judicial appropriations had increased by 13.9%, we propose to increase them by 24%. Mr Bernalicis, I confirm to you the figures of the Government, at constant perimeter, from 2017 to 2022. This increase will allow us to recruit staff. Mrs. Ménard, you mentioned the situation of prison guards. We will recruit between 1700 and 1900 additional prison guards per year. The financial resources have been calibrated against the objectives. Because I do not agree, MP Savignant and MP Bernalicis, when you tell me that, in the end, the bill could have stopped at clause 1. No! We cannot simply provide resources without setting objectives and moving towards the reform called for in our judicial system. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I will simply conclude by pointing out that these additional means will obviously allow us to recruit judges and staff; and that these personnel will be recruited in such a way that what I say before you today, and for several months now, that is, we will not close any jurisdiction, that is what will happen. And I am totally false, Mr Savignat, against your demonstration. Article 121-3 of the Code of Judicial Organisation, you said, deals with the distribution of judges in the various "services" of courts. But the courts of appeal are not judicial services! I recall that judges are appointed there by decree of the President of the Republic, not by the head of the court. What has been said is therefore not correct: we will not close any court, because we will have the means to act as I have just explained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u113	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u114	What I want to question through these various amendments, Madam Minister, is the method: if they were defended, it is because we consider that the slope, in terms of a programming law, must reflect an ambition sufficiently high to satisfy the needs of our fellow citizens, in particular to counter the slowness of justice, which is observed everywhere, not to mention the need for proximity. However, from the explanations that you and the rapporteur have just made, we note that it is the annual budgetary principle that takes precedence over the multiannual programming law. The rapporteur told us that a state budget for 2018 was voted in this House, which sets the bar at a height that prohibits us from going to our proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u115	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u116	I take it that the annual budgetary principle takes precedence over a multi-annual programming law, when, in my view, it sets a course which the budget must, on the contrary, allow to follow. I would therefore like you to clarify this point, because it completely changes the nature of the debates that we have at this moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u117	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u118	Programming is clearly a letter to Santa Claus. Otherwise, Rule 40 would apply and would simply prevent us from defending these amendments, in which case the debate would be closed. If this programming is met, so much the better, it will be preferable to the situation of departments whose appropriations are falling. And in this country, that's the reality for most of them. You are taking care, Minister, to say that this budget is there to pursue your objectives. You're right: he's not here to meet the needs. And that's the problem: it's better to start from the needs. Among the courts of appeal which I know of the grievances, Douai's, for example, defended your reform overall, but not on the means; As far as the means are concerned, the courts say that if they reach the target force, they will just be able to function. Because the target staff, as defined, do not correspond to the actual needs of the courts. If you offer them four or five additional magistrates, they will have work, this work will be done well, and the deadlines will be reduced for the litigant. This is the reality of this country: the target numbers are already undervalued everywhere, precisely in order to avoid showing too large a gap in relation to the needs of our jurisdictions. As for the breakdown of the 6500 posts, only 832 posts are allocated to the judiciary. The bulk is absorbed by the 1100 prison guards, to reach the target population; with the 2300 new positions to "arm", according to the consecrated phrase, the new structures, it makes 3,300 additional supervisors to recruit, in addition to the renewals made necessary by retirements, for example, even though it is already the greatest difficulty to carry out these recruitments. Honestly, the whole prison system is really not a good policy, including in terms of recruitment and human resources management. As for the 1,500 prison integration and probation counsellors, I am not sure that they are enough, especially as you wish to re-appoint them with the pre-sentence. In fact, these 1,500 recruitments were also planned to fill the gap and arrive at an acceptable and sustainable average number of files per officer. So I'd like to do something about it and make us happy by throwing numbers at your head, but they have to match the real needs. These figures are not based on the needs of the courts in that country, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u119	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 54 and 66. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u120	This amendment deletes the statement that programming will be updated by 2021. Indeed, there is no need to foresee this since the value of Article 1, which is purely programmatic, is in no way binding. The appropriations and jobs will have to be formally voted annually by the Finance Act, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u121	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u122	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u124	Unfavorable. This is also an opportunity for me to respond to Mr Viala's question. Article 1 provides a clear fiscal path: the €7.3 billion we voted for 2019, then €7.7 billion for 2020, €8 billion for 2021 and €8.3 billion for 2022. This is the path we propose to adopt. The update planned for 2021 will allow adaptation if necessary. I would point out that, in the framework of the other programming laws that we voted for, including the military programming law, we also introduced an update in 2021. It is therefore also for the sake of consistency with the other programming laws that we have voted for that opinion that I give an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u126	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u127	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u128	Updates may be welcome if they raise credits! This could be interesting, especially since inflation is already, I believe, a little higher than expected. So, if we take it into account, the increase in the budget between 2017 and 2022 is no longer 23.3%, as announced, but much lower. If, in addition, there was an adventurous desire to increase the remuneration of prison guards so that, for example, they would be paid as much as national police officers, on an identical scale, which would not be so strange as that, in reality, would require a little more money. I am trying to anticipate for you, Madam Minister, the future social movements you may face. It is therefore really better to adopt this article, in order to give itself a small margin of manoeuvre. Perhaps one might even add that updating can only be done on the increase, to make sure that there is not an entourage in the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u129	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u130	[[Smile]] The urgency, Madam Minister, is real. It is therefore appropriate to provide for an update and an assessment of the first achievements by 31 December 2020, and I thank you for accepting my invitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u132	Disadvantaged, out of consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u133	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u134	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u135	[[Smile]] But the invitation is well confirmed, Madam Keeper of the Seals...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u136	[[Smile]] Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u137	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 51 and 68. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u138	This is an amendment of consistency with the table in Article 1, paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u139	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u140	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u141	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 50 and 67. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u142	This is again an amendment of consistency with the table in Article 1(5).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u143	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u144	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u145	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 712.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u146	With this amendment, we propose the strengthening of the justice system for children and young people, as well as that of the PJJ, the judicial protection of young people, in their fundamental task of educational monitoring in an open environment or in a home. In order to do so, we propose to amend the annex to the bill by announcing €35 million for the open environment, notably through the redeployment of funds provided by the Government for the construction of so-called "closed educational centres" – CEF. During the work on this bill, we have been alerted by many trade unionists, educators and educators of the PJJ, who recall that these closed centres do not stop juvenile delinquency in any way, but are on the contrary "antechambers of detention", as also recalled by the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights in March 2017. The unions also led a day of strike last October. It is important to recall that there are many alternatives to these detention facilities, such as territorial educational services, day education units in courts or territorial integration services. In short, there is something to do for a particularly vulnerable public, for whom the Government's "prisoner-centered" response is likely to only worsen the situation. As Jean-Pierre Rosenczveig, former president of the Bobigny Children's Court, pointed out, this situation is also deplored by magistrates and magistrates, who indicated that "all means are concentrated on young people already well enrolled in delinquency to the detriment of those who are only at the beginning" and noted a "scissors effect between the functions of repression and prevention in the Bobigny Children's Court. In twenty-five years, the number of prosecutors' substitutes has increased from two to eight, when the number of youth judicial protection staff decreased from twenty educators to thirteen." From our point of view, it is a logic that you emphasize and that we must put an end to. That is the meaning of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u148	We have had this discussion many times in our discussions. We will return to this with Article 52, on EFCs. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u150	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u151	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u152	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] No, "we'll see later", it doesn't work that way anymore! You can no longer refer the discussion of an amendment to the consideration of another article. It is within the framework of this article that this amendment must be considered! Otherwise, move him, in agreement with the service of the meeting, to Article 52! Get on with it! You're the one who put it in this place of the text, it's not us. I would add that, in good liberals, you should devote these resources to the open environment, simply because it costs less!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u153	Not so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u154	Do you already try to reopen the closed educational centres that are themselves closed, before opening new ones! Let us already improve the functioning of those who exist, before creating them in new territories. The range of tools for the judicial protection of young people is lacking in measures dedicated to the open environment: it is therefore necessary to devote the necessary resources. Let us make good use of these millions dedicated to the judicial protection of young people, in line with the demands of professionals in this sector. Let's consecrate that 35 million in the open.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u155	I call Mrs Danièle Obono to support Amendment No. 709.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u156	We are again defending this amendment, as the arguments put forward by the Government and the Commission to reject it have not convinced us. We propose that the Government guarantee the same opportunities for overseas sentencing as the average found in metropolitan France, so that citizens in these territories have public services with the same human and financial means. The National Consultative Commission on Human Rights, in a 2017 report, pointed out that overseas countries are characterized by a "very small number of people benefiting from an adjustment of sentences", because "the adjustments of sentences" there "are much more difficult to implement than in metropolitan France", due to a clear lack of infrastructure and investment. This amendment goes further than the elements that you have brought to the debate and that we do not think are in a position to make up for the significant delays in this area. It is likely to enable our ultramarine fellow citizens to enjoy equal access to public services, while too often it is lacking overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u157	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u158	As I have already had the opportunity to stress on many occasions, we share the objective pursued by this amendment. Moreover, the Minister of Justice is mobilizing on the subject, as demonstrated by the strengthening of the prison services for integration and probation in overseas communities since 2013. Many projects are also under way: I am thinking in particular of a call for tenders to put an end to the failures of overseas communication networks, in order to improve the electronic supervision of convicted persons. Real estate projects are also planned, including the renovation of the prison in Cayenne and the construction of a prison in Basse-Terre. These projects directly contribute to strengthening sentencing policies in these territories. Finally, on the initiative of our colleague Olivier Serva, we adopted a trans-party amendment to Article 1b, aimed at incorporating into the annual enforcement report a specific assessment of the deployment of the financial resources devoted to justice in the overseas communities. This good approach is pursued in an in-depth cross-cutting interest. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u159	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u160	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u161	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u162	I learn that things were happening before the running Republic was in power, when we felt the opposite since the beginning of this discussion! Our colleague's report, which we have voted for, adopts, in a way, a wide-ranging view, since it aims to achieve a state of affairs. We propose an amendment to the annexed report, which not only does not really commit you, but only aims to achieve, by 2022, the real equality of the overseas countries and territories with the rest of the territory. That's not the change of the century! Perhaps real equality is a problem for you. To me, she doesn't pose any. We could make such an effort, especially since, although they are the dada of the majority, electronic bracelets are not the only possible form of punishment. We must commit ourselves to this, because you cannot, on the one hand, explain that there are too many incarcerations and that alternative solutions should be provided and, on the other hand, reject amendments that are in line with real equality in terms of sentencing arrangements, by 2002, in the overseas regions. It is true that the latter are not always considered to be an integral part of the Republic. Get involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u163	I call Mr Jolivet to support Amendment No. 601.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u164	It is intended to add a sentence to paragraph 146 of the annexed report, in order to invite the administration to develop access for researchers to the prison environment. This position, which I defend with Aude Bono-Vandorme, is due to three reasons. First of all, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe invited the French State, by deliberation, to Kyrgyzstan, to develop research in this field, in order to broaden its spectrum beyond the social sciences. Secondly, the academic world considers that the Ministry of Justice – it is a historical phenomenon for which you are not responsible, Madam Keeper of the Seals – would not have developed any institutional relationship with it. Even if academics are accredited, they generally feel excluded, which leads some to regret the development of mutual ignorance. Finally, it is necessary to conduct interdepartmental research: today, only your administration is the recipient of the reports submitted by the researchers approved by you. Perhaps the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries would be interested to learn more about the evolution of the mechanisms of transition to radicalization. To this end, data must be available, which means allowing researchers to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u166	The committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion on this amendment. However, the leads you wish to develop in this research are interesting. That is why I am expressing a favourable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u168	Positive opinion, too. The Directorate of Prison Administration is developing a proactive research policy and already has a lot of data. It is important, however, to benefit from the eyes of academics and researchers, who can enlighten us with their thoughts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u169	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 456.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u170	This amendment, tabled at the initiative of Mr Gosselin, aims to experiment, over a period of three years, with the setting up of associations within the courts of main instance, with the task of building the projects of exit at the end of the sentence and of setting up the sentence and helping the prisoners to build their career paths. It is therefore intended to promote the professional integration of prisoners. As everyone knows, there is a real issue of coordination between the various actors involved in this field: justice, business, employment, local missions, prison administration and prison integration and probation services. The establishment of structures such as the Group for the Employment of Probators (GREP), which operates in prisons in the departments of the Rhône, Loire and Ain, seems particularly relevant. In fact, reports to the GREP are made by prison integration and probation advisers, whether in an open or closed environment. This efficient approach contributes to a better professional integration of prisoners upon their release. It can be evaluated as it goes: the figures are relevant. It should be extended through this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u172	We have already talked about this on many occasions. While these initiatives do exist, it would be counterproductive to include them in the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u174	Same opinion. The mission of accompanying prisoners to the exit falls within the competence of the prison integration and probation services. Associations can obviously bring their skills, and we often work with them. However, the drafting of your amendment would tend to favour relations between these associations and the TGIs, which I find difficult to organise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u175	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 242.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u176	It concerns the inclusion, referred to in the attached report, through the optional establishment of prison committees. The adoption of this amendment, the wording of which may still be modified, if you wish, would be an important step towards developing a new spirit in prisons, in support of prison overseers. Its aim is to promote the integration of prisoners through participation mechanisms, which also refer to European recommendations. These inmate committees were established in the United Kingdom, Spain and Denmark, with real success. Prison overseers do a remarkable job: it is not a question of prejudging the opposite. On the contrary, they should be accompanied, through this optional mechanism, which requires the agreement of the institution, in order to enable prisoners to work with prison supervisors on the functioning of the institution, as well as on the daily problems to be solved and to find them, once they have returned to civilian life at the end of their sentence. This amendment may be included in an annexed report. It is far from excessive, since I repeat, it provides for the agreement of the overseers who must be associated with this system and even fully appropriate it. It is in line with the effectiveness of the punishment you are seeking and the meaning you wish to give it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u178	I would like to welcome the new wording of this amendment, which is the result of the exchanges we have had in committee for the new reading of the text. However, this wording does not yet appear to be sufficiently complete to obtain the committee's favourable opinion. This is indeed a sensitive matter, since it asks us to combine matters of good order and security of the institution, which your amendment refers to, with questions of improving the conditions of imprisonment of prisoners, without omitting the place of prison staff in the system. This subject still requires work; I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment, failing which the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u180	As you know, honourable Member, since we have already discussed this subject, the consultation of detained persons on their activities, which is not exactly what you are asking for but which is approaching it, is already provided for in the 2009 Act and implemented under conditions laid down at the regulatory level, in provisions contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Prisoners are thus consulted at least twice a year on the proposed activities and are involved in these consultations with prison staff, including the Prison Integration and Probation Service, SPIP. In practice, this system is translated into a consultation of detained persons on matters relating to daily life in detention, far beyond the question of activities alone. In 2017, 142 prisons conducted consultations with the criminal population and more than 1,000 consultations were held on topics as varied as education, work, canteen, life in detention, hygiene or telephone. It therefore seems to me that the current legal and regulatory provisions are sufficiently comprehensive and already allow consultations of detainees to be considered on a wide-ranging basis, in line with the objective of the provisions of your amendment. I do not think it appropriate to impose a single form of consultation that would involve the election of representatives of detained persons. On the basis of current provisions, some institutions have chosen to diversify consultation methods beyond the establishment of a consultative body, either through collective expression meetings, questionnaires or through the use of a box of ideas. It should also be stressed that consultations of detained persons are also carried out in the context of the implementation of the compliance modules, which we wish to promote – consultations are an integral part of the philosophy of these modules. This diversity of forms of consultation and the wide scope for the expression of detainees permitted under the current provisions must be preserved. Let me give you an example that shows that this flexibility and diversity seem sufficient to me. The internal regulations of the prison in Caen provide for the establishment of a social life council. Within this council, the criminal population is represented by detained persons designated for this purpose; the administration is also represented by members serving in an advisory capacity. The Social Life Council meets every six months. The agendas and minutes shall be communicated to the criminal population. As you can see, there are therefore multiple forms of consultation, organized either in the context of forums or in a lighter way. I wish to preserve this diversity. For all these reasons, I am against Amendment No 242, although I understand its philosophy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u181	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u182	Madam rapporteur, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to support the amendment tabled by my colleague Cécile Untermaier in reply to some of the arguments that you have put forward. By law, we can recognize what is right, give operators the opportunity to generalize a happy experience and thereby advance our ideas. You yourself support the principle of inmate committees and welcome the thousands of experiences in this field; By including this possibility in the law, you will allow such committees to be deployed on a larger scale. We're not bringing you to any bad trial. We are all in favour of the humanization of prisons – deprivation of liberty must not be dehumanization. In addition, learning about future citizenship is an important issue in prison life. Cécile Untermaier's amendment takes account of European experience: where prisoners' committees are provided for by law, they develop in all civility and without causing problems. In addition, this amendment, which was tabled in December so that we have time to learn the principle, has a major condition, namely the agreement of the community of overseers, which is an indisputable balance for us. Thus, Amendment No 242 is an amendment of perfect balance. So we would really regret that you did not come back to your unfavorable views.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u183	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u184	I too support Mrs Untermaier's amendment. I am astonished that Mrs. Keeper of the Seals boasts the merits of a mechanism such as the compliance modules, which specifically provide for the inmates to be associated in turn, to each of them to exercise responsibility and to discuss clearly the organization of the detention. This is the case, for example, in the last prison I was able to visit, in Douai, where 30% of the facility is managed according to compliance modules and where supervisors are the first to boast the merits of this mode of operation, which generates less tension. The detention quarters where it is implemented are those that experience the least attack by supervisors: it's no more complicated than that! I don't understand your chilliness. You're hiding behind the overseers. Either you say too much, or you don't say enough! If you're not able to convince the officers of your own department, there's a real difficulty, Mrs. Sealing. Our colleague Cécile Untermaier takes the precaution of introducing this measure in the attached report. This arrangement will therefore not be binding: it will be available to school directors who believe that it is possible to implement it. The authors of the amendment have already taken a great deal of caution in this regard. What will it cost you to vote on such an amendment? You will be on the side of those who are trying to advance the conditions of detention and improve community life in institutions dedicated to the restriction of liberty. It is also the best way to prepare inmates for their release. Please think and at least give this amendment a wisdom opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u185	So, Mr. Ciotti voted for the inmate committees...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u186	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u187	I support the amendment that Cécile Untermaier has just defended and agree with Dominique Potier's comments. Amendment No 69 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u188	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u189	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u190	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u191	Same opinion. I do not believe that special situations should be included in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u192	We come to Amendment No 710, on which I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (France) who has not submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u193	This amendment, by which we call for the establishment of a probation agency, is part of a series of amendments dealing with the issue of sentencing. We propose to move clearly to a triptych that would include the fine, the probation penalty – which would therefore be autonomous – and the prison sentence. A probation agency would provide support to magistrates who handed down such sentences. Instead, you propose the creation of a work agency of general interest, focusing on a single probation measure, to which you also associate professional integration – you do not understand your logic very well because these two notions sometimes overlap, but not always. This probation agency could include the full range of probation measures, thus making the scheme more effective. It would be much more coherent than your work agency of general interest. It would strengthen certain measures such as outside placement, which could be imposed as autonomous probation sentences, in a different state of mind. The structure we propose to you seems to us more integrated and more logical.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u195	Disadvantaged, as I have said on many occasions. The provisions contained in this bill are already proof that we want to develop the probationary system in our country, both in terms of the proposed legal instruments – the repositioning of imprisonment on the scale of sentences, the development of sentencing arrangements, the merger of probation with probation and criminal coercion within a clarified probationary system – and the new human means granted to the SPIPs. In addition, Mr Bernalicis himself referred to the creation of a work agency of general interest, an organisation which I believe is in a position to respond to our concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u197	I don't see very well the interest and usefulness of a probation agency. It seems to me that the definition and implementation of the sentencing policy is carried out by the prison administration, with its staff, the SPIPs and, where appropriate, with the assistance of the associations. I do not understand the value of your amendment, Mr Bernalicis, but perhaps you will explain it to me when we address the probation provisions. I don't see what the added value of this probation agency would be. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u198	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u199	Be careful, Madam Keeper of the Seals: your arguments may turn against you when we discuss the creation of your agency for work of general interest! I don't know what the added value of such an agency would be, but I'm not gonna make myself the devil's lawyer... He's not my type! This probation agency aims to bring all measures together in a single toolbox, if I may say so, and to strengthen the interdepartmental nature of probation policy. It is true that we could have an inter-ministerial general secretariat responsible for probation policy within the prison administration. The agencies aren't my thing! But as I was trying to convince you and your majority, I saw that you were very interested in the creation of agencies on all sides: I therefore proposed the creation of a probation agency to emphasize that work of general interest should not be the only measure, even if it is welcome. We therefore propose an integrated, interdepartmental structure that fits in with your logic. If you tell me that the agencies are useless, I'll return the argument to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u200	I put to the vote Amendment No. 710.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u201	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 4 Against 58
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u202	Before going to the next amendment, I would like to point out to you that, on Amendment No 711, a request for a public vote has been submitted to me by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 371.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u203	The aim of this amendment is to significantly increase the effort to build prison places. Madam seal keeper, the shortage of prison places is probably the most serious problem facing our judicial system today. It weighs heavily on the entire chain of enforcement of sentences. Today, we have just over 700,000 prisoners detained and accommodated for just over 59,000 places. To this large deficit must be added the objective never achieved of individual confinement. With the 7,000 new places you offer us, we are far from meeting this objective and above all allowing all convictions to be carried out. I repeat, this shortage of prison places prevents the execution of very many sentences – we are talking about 100,000 enforceable sentences not executed today, mainly because of this shortage of prison places. We must therefore go further. You have divided by two the promise made by the President of the Republic by spreading it over two quinquennats. We must now implement an emergency plan, especially since there are technical means to fill this deficit, which is becoming a major problem for our judicial system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u205	We have already had lengthy debates on this subject at first reading. My opinion remains unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u207	I will take up the arguments I have put forward at first reading. First of all, Mr Ciotti, your proposal to build 20,000 prison places by 2022, if I have read your amendment correctly, is totally unrealistic. You know that! The "13200" programme, launched in 2002, was not completed until 2015. I therefore do not see how, with all the good will possible, and even with technical innovations or diversified methods of establishments, such as those we propose, we could deliver 20,000 places in 2022. I am sure that, in keeping with the commitment of the President of the Republic and the objective of delivering 15,000 prison places, the programme that I propose to you – 7000 places actually delivered, opened and available in 2022 and 8000 that will already be launched, with the studies and the acquisition of the land – will really allow us to meet our real needs in terms of places of detention in a fully realistic time frame. You also know, Mr Ciotti, that it is not only the construction of prison places that will solve the difficulty faced by us: there must also be another policy of penalties. I will not develop it here, but you know very well that the scansion that I propose and the autonomous penalties that we wish to develop are also one of the modalities of this response. One doesn't go without the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u208	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u209	The figure of 20,000 places may seem high, but a catch-up is needed. Let us be clear, however: in any case, there will be no 7,000 places in the next three years, knowing that, of these 7,000 places, some are already committed under the Urvoas plan. In addition, there will be about 2000 places in more open establishments – and I repeat that I do not see any difficulty in ensuring that there is a variety of routes, which corresponds to a variety of situations. Between the 2000 seats removed here and the 3000 or 4000 that were already in the pipework, we will actually have, and if everything goes well – I emphasize this last point – 2000 or 3000 places in prison at the end of the quinquennium. Indeed, despite the fact that certain procedures will be eased by the text that is likely to be voted on, not all land is acquired – so much so – public utility investigations or public inquiries will be necessary and expropriations will sometimes be required to accompany certain extensions. Anyway, we'll see. We can object to the fact that the figure of 20,000 places is hypothetical, but the figure of 7,000 places is just as hypothetical and does not correspond to expectations and needs, even if we are changing certain elements of criminal policy and if, for various reasons already exposed, we use imprisonment less strongly: in all cases, the account is not there and we must remember it. Let's meet, Madam Minister, in three and a half years...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u210	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u211	...and we shall see, alas, that the account will not be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u212	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u213	I will certainly find you with pleasure, but that is not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u214	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u215	Madam Minister, you are telling us that the construction of 20,000 prison places is technically impossible. However, there are technical solutions. You thus evoke the diversification of establishments, which is indeed a trail that would allow you to go much faster. In 2010, for the then President of the Republic, I had drafted a report on the enforcement of sentences, in which we made proposals for the installation of prefabricated modules in certain establishments, which allowed for the very rapid creation, in six months, of several thousand places in very decent conditions. When there is will, there is a way. This will must therefore be expressed with much more force. There are a multitude of technical solutions, but you tell us all that the solution you are looking for is once again the subterfuge of sentencing. In the figures you quote, you mention the fact that your law, if passed, will result in a 7,000 decrease in the number of prisoners in prison. This is the real objective of your law: since you are unable to build the number of additional prison places necessary to fulfil the ardent obligation imposed on our country, you are obliged, like most of your predecessors, to resort to these subterfuges, which are alternative penalties and systematic and automatic arrangements, which are merely palliatives to the shortage of prison places and which will deconstruct the sentence and the meaning of the sentence. In fact, the sentences handed down by the courts are followed by a deconstruction operation, due to the shortage of prison places. Our fellow citizens no longer accept it and the victims no longer understand it. You are deconstructing the message associated with grief, a message that must be a deterrent to avoid repetition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u216	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u217	Mr President, what you are saying is the reality of what is being done today. It is in fact today, and not in my project, that the penalty is deconstructed. So do not transpose the provisions that I propose to you the reality that you have helped to build. I'm trying to be realistic. Today, as you know, the reality is that some sentences are not carried out in accordance with what has been handed down, for reasons that can sometimes be explained and justified. However, it is the opposite that I want to do: when a court pronounces a sentence, that sentence will be served. That is the important thing, and we are giving ourselves the necessary means – I will not detail them here – to do so. What you attribute to me does not correspond to what I want to do, but it is the reality of today, which many years of perhaps a somewhat clumsy criminal policy have helped to create. That is why we wanted to make a difference. Don't make me say that I don't build places of detention: we build them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u218	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u219	There won't be 15,000!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u220	Let's find ourselves in 2022 and you will see that 7,000 more places will have been delivered compared to the number we will have found when we arrive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u221	Not in Nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u222	Not in the English Channel!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u223	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am ready to take a bet with you, but the two elements – criminal policy and prison places – go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u224	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u225	Dear colleague Ciotti, let us imagine that 20,000 people will be built using Algeco or any other prefabricated mark: you will agree that once you have placed 20,000 people there, you will still have to take care of them and the corresponding prison guards will be required. However, I do not know how you will recruit the number of prison guards needed to handle an additional 20,000 inmates. The thing doesn't work infinity! I'm already not sure that the account is there with the additional 7,000 places and the 2300 recruitments they will require. You know, like me, that the prison guard profession is in crisis and that today, many students drop out on the road, during the school year or the year of internship. So things are a little more complicated than you say. In addition, all this is expensive. Finally, according to the various studies that exist on this issue – and I recommend in this regard the excellent productions and analyses of Mr.Didier Fassin – it is not true that an indefinite increase in sentences or the number of prison places will produce a deterrent effect that will have consequences on the level of delinquency. There is no relationship between the two. Indeed, the level of delinquency has declined in recent years, while the number and duration of incarceration has steadily increased. There is no scientific relationship between the two. You may want, politically, to create one and create a state of mind, an atmosphere – I understand it, and that is your right – but it has no kind of scientific reality. The right course to follow is thus that of deflation in prisons and it would be to not build these 7,000 prison places. We have a margin of progress in this area, particularly with regard to pre-trial detention and persons in recidivism, for example, driving under the influence of alcohol. For these people, the prison is useless, has no positive effect and does not allow them to get out of their criminal problems. We must therefore look at our objective, which is the prevention of recidivism. However, the best prevention of recidivism is to allocate resources, not to the construction of new prison places, but to alternatives to incarceration, to care outside and tightened up. It involves putting the package on the Prison Service for Integration and Probation and on the whole associative fabric, but also on the public medical and social fabric, which makes it possible to take care of these situations. This is how to reduce the level of delinquency, conflict and violence in the country: it is not by building an additional 20,000 prison places.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u226	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u227	[[Smile on the benches of the SOC group]] Unlike Mr Bernalicis, I will not have the ambition to convince Mr Ciotti on this subject: I am less ambitious and less pretentious, and I know that it is almost inaccessible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u228	You must never give up, Mr. Potier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u229	On the other hand, the minister, after being very discreet on this issue, I will allow myself, since I have the opportunity to do so, an incentive for real estate programs. You are very familiar with the situation in our constituency, where the previous government asked us to mobilize to create a prison. The Territory has deployed extraordinary means to address clean-up, site mobilization and acquisition issues. Everyone started, the project was announced and a local housing plan was planned and, suddenly, a change in criminal policy took place. I am absolutely unable – and I will never make a trial of intent – to say whether budgetary constraints have guided criminal policy or whether criminal policy leads to a revision of the budgetary programme. Nevertheless, it is that, overnight – and I am not talking about the substance, but the consequences for the territories – ten, fifteen or twenty territories – I do not know the exact number – were abandoned, when they had committed, like ours, an exceptional mobilization. Madam Minister, I have had a high-quality exchange with your office and I thank you for that. I sent a letter to the Prime Minister, not about our territory, but to tell him that, in such situations, the least was that the Republic and the State were accompanying the territories in the conversion of an abandoned project, to allow them to mourn this project in the name of the law passed here, but also that they were accompanying them for other economic development and public services projects – in a word, to place themselves in a logic of accompanying these territories. We have received a general response, stating that the State would be kind in the territories concerned. I will ask, in due course, for an assessment of this effort, which we have not seen at this time in concrete translations. I repeat that I do not intend to make a trial of intent, but it is the least of the things, when we change politics here, to assume the consequences in the dialogue with the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u230	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u231	My position is pretty much the same. I discovered with surprise the statements made today by the Prefect of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques – and I thought that Vincent Bru would speak about this, but he may not want to put the prefect in trouble and be silent. According to the Prefect, "the Pau prison file is at a standstill," while the Mayor of Pau had declared, a few days ago, that this prison would be carried out in 2027. Madam Minister, in addition to our colleagues' inquiries on the number of prisons, in view of the territorial situation and the progress of the projects undertaken by your predecessor, Mr Urvoas, we need clarity. On the one hand, it is not possible for a prefectural authority to tell us that the project is over, while a mayor – who perhaps thinks he will become Prime Minister – tells us that it will be carried out in the next few days. We need a little more transparency and clarity in this area. I am sure that, since we are three members of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques in this Chamber, Vincent Bru and Jean Lassalle will share my analysis on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u232	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 711.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u233	The aim of this amendment is to establish a new central prison labour and employment training agency. This proposal is based on facts: less than a third of detainees are engaged in gainful activity, the lack of posts is striking and the activities proposed are reduced to shaping and assembly, a process that has virtually disappeared outside today. In addition to this, there is a problematic legal situation, since a detained person who is employed in prison is a worker without a contract, who does not have compensation in the event of technical unemployment, sickness or accident at work, and who does not benefit from a framework of working hours, guaranteed days of rest, respected minimum income or occupational medicine. This is known, to such an extent that at the last minute you tried to add training and integration into the competencies of the agency you created. If, therefore, you see the need to create a specific agency for work of general interest, it is indeed necessary to devote resources and to pay particular attention to this modality. It seems to us – and it should also seem to you – that it is important to devote resources and special attention to the issue of work. We therefore propose to you, with regard to prison work and training, the same modalities as you have chosen for the work of general interest – TIG. If you want to do a good job, you don't have to mix up the problems. Such an agency would therefore address a problem that arises in the context of detention. It is also a crucial element, and I am sure you do not doubt it, in the rehabilitation and fight against the recidivism of detained persons. To engage in paid work in good conditions or to have access to training in prison prevents recidivism, leaving prison without employment and without training leading to many recidivisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u234	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u235	Since you are so keen on fighting recidivism, I have no doubt that you will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u237	Indeed, we fully share the objective that you have just presented. I know that this argument does not apply to you, but the National Agency for Labour of General Interest and Vocational Integration, as its name suggests, also deals with occupational integration: the problem is therefore fully targeted by this agency, as is the result of the work of my excellent colleague and co-rapporteur Didier Paris. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u239	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u240	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u241	It is not that your argument does not apply to me, Madam rapporteur, that it is absolutely not consistent. We will discuss the issue of work of general interest because some provisions are problematic, such as opening up to lucrative services. Wage-earning and training refer to very different schemes, each having its own specific characteristics. All the accompanying arrangements granted to detained persons are supposed to act in a coherent manner to enable reintegration and to give meaning to the penalty: in this sense, they are linked, but this is not the same. In fact, you realized that since you integrated this dimension, which was not previously taken into account, into the new large agency. You see, therefore, that we are not talking exactly about the same thing. Given the reality of the situation of work and training, we cannot content ourselves with an item added to the rush: we must put the means in it by setting up an agency, otherwise you miss out and fuel the cycle of recidivism, without acting on the real problems of people in detention. That is why this amendment retains its value. I hope that after this very clear explanation of the differences between these arrangements, you will revise your opinion and vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u242	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u243	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would like to add one argument: beyond occupational integration, which must be reinforced by the practice of a professional activity supervised and paid during imprisonment, the fact of being able to benefit from a salary or compensation provides an alternative to trafficking of any kind existing in prison. We know very well that those who have no means to survive will find the possibility of trafficking in prison: in this sense, prison is often a school of vice rather than a school of virtue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u244	I put to the vote Amendment No. 711.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u245	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 66 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 4 Against 62
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u246	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 602.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u247	This amendment recalls the importance of associations working alongside prisoners. The contribution of inmate support associations in prisons is all the more invaluable as we find ourselves in a constrained budgetary context. They propose activities complementary to those proposed by the prison administration and other State services. Their actions are essential in order to achieve the objective set out in this report and set out in article 27 of the Prison Act of 24 November 2009. The aim of this amendment is therefore to encourage the development of the interventions carried out by these associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u249	Of course, I share your concern about the role, which I would like to acknowledge, of associations working with inmates to help them succeed in their professional reintegration. I would like to point out that the current text already provides some elements on this objective, in particular EUR 14 million between 2019 and 2022 to finance the development of detention activities, which will help to facilitate and strengthen the work done by the associations in this field. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u251	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u252	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u253	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u254	The committee maintained the deletion of Article 1a. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 425, which is intended to re-establish this Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u255	This amendment concerns the objectives of increasing the number of conciliators. The bill we are looking at wants to give more room to listen, to prevent, to reconcile, so it is important to set goals. The conciliators of justice work on a voluntary basis; a few allowances ensure the reimbursement of a small part of their costs, very insufficiently indeed, and we again invite the chancery to review this compensation because it turns to alms! Many conciliators told us that they brought their paper ramettes, that they used their own computers most of the time, or that the photocopiers they retrieved were often those whose drums were going to drop. We'd laugh almost if it wasn't so pathetic! We must therefore be interested in the conciliators and the objective here is to say "chicken! Since you want conciliation to develop, help us develop it by setting goals. I mean in advance the answer that will be given to me: they are volunteers and not budget openings. Certainly, but that does not prevent us from setting recruitment targets, as we have done on other subjects. Even if they are volunteers, there is a need for communication, a little publicity, awareness-raising among retired legal professionals, who are only asking to devote a little of their time to society. In the times that run, it seems to me quite justified and interesting. But to do this, we still have to give ourselves the means by setting objectives!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u257	There are two aspects. The first is the objective of recruiting conciliators. On this point, our position has been the same since the beginning of these debates: under a programming law, which sets clear objectives, we cannot include the recruitment of volunteers in the budget. At the same time, you mentioned at the moment the broader objective of increasing the number of conciliator recruitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u258	This is necessary if the law is to be enforced!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u259	You are aware that this number has already increased in recent years, by just over 10% last year. If this dynamic is to be accentuated in the context of the development of amicable dispute settlement, this does not fall within the scope of this programming law, especially since the objectives you propose provide for an increase of more than 50% in the number of conciliators: this seems somewhat disproportionate to what we know today. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u260	Make counterproposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u262	Precisely, honourable Member, I do not wish to make any counter-proposals; Forgive me for responding to your inquiry by your colleague Laetitia Avia. As the rapporteur has just demonstrated, it is a voluntary population. If we can wish to achieve goals, it bothers me, because it is a volunteer function, to put these goals in the marble. I already had the opportunity to tell you, during the debate at first reading, that we had a target of 2400 conciliators by the end of 2019, while in July 2018 we were at 2229. So you can see that we are making progress in recruiting these conciliators. As you yourself pointed out, we have made progress in their compensation. An internal report to the Directorate of Judicial Services has been issued in an attempt to improve the avenues for making this function more attractive. I myself have met conciliators who are passionate about what they do and who devote a lot of hours to it. We are making every effort to truly benefit from the greatest number of conciliators, but I do not want to display a number that I am not necessarily able to keep in view of the voluntary nature of these functions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u263	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u264	I support this amendment and wish to respond to the rapporteur's and the minister's comments. The rapporteur explains to us that, although she is in a programming debate that sets out budgetary objectives, she does not want to set herself targets for the recruitment of volunteers who, as such, are not paid. However, a number of means should be provided to conduct campaigns and provide training. For her part, the minister explained that it bothers her to include these objectives as means in the legislation. However, the reform that you want us to vote on a new reading will make the use of alternative dispute resolution compulsory. As a result, the only free alternative mode available to litigants will not be able to meet the needs, the demands that will increase mechanically; Only paid modes will remain available. In fact, what bothers you is to allow free access to law and justice for some of the litigants: obviously, you prefer the paid way! That's what this is about! [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] If you claim to agree with the need to evolve these goals, it is not boredom that should prevent you from placing them in the marble: on the contrary, it should push you to do so, which would allow you to prove your good faith. But you have just demonstrated your bad faith in this matter: it is a pity, not only for those who are litigants, but also for all those who do this work voluntarily, without having the necessary means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u265	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u266	I share Mr. Gosselin's concern, although perhaps we could translate it differently. With this programming bill, we will place on volunteers a mandatory mechanism prior to access to the judge: it's not nothing! In addition, we will extend this obligation to lower disputes, not to 4000 euros, but to 8000. I therefore wonder about the ability of the conciliators to meet this requirement; This is my first question. My second question stems from my experience in the field, where I met with conciliators, certainly not enough, and court presidents. They told me of their difficulties in recruiting conciliators, as they were very surprised by the conditions they were faced with, in particular for the reimbursement of travel expenses, calculated on the basis of a derogation from the usual practice. I would like you to make a firm commitment to this, so that we can say in our constituencies that the Chancellery has heard our plea for these volunteers, who should not be in their pocket when they spend hours in the service of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u267	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u268	Together with President Le Fur and others, we have met with conciliators on various occasions, all of whom have told us their deep commitment, which you have translated into this text, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I agree. We are, on every bench, committed to this volunteerism, but see the weakness of your reform if you do not set goals. You make conciliation an almost compulsory alternative mode, in any case it will be in a number of cases, but it is based on volunteerism. It's still pretty dramatic! I admire volunteerism and I thank the conciliators, but having a whole section of our justice rest on volunteers asks me, especially when the guard of seals refuses, on the grounds that these are not budget items, to set objectives, which she believes could be difficult to fulfil. Not only is a pillar of access to justice, of which you have a strong focus, based on volunteerism, but you yourself doubt the success of this orientation, since you are not in a position to formulate alternative proposals to the one we are making in this amendment to achieve the objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u269	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u270	Excuse me, but under these circumstances, I do not see how the objective set by the bill, if it is voted, could be achieved. Even if the goals are not always fulfilled, they give us a horizon, which forces us collectively and encourages us to give the best. I can hear the slight increase in the number of conciliators that you have mentioned, Madam Seal Keeper, but you are content with an improved "stream of the water" scenario. I do not want it, I would like to see ambitious measures for the justice of our country and for conciliation, so that, to repeat a phrase dear to the President of the Republic, "it works" – without being "on the move".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u271	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u272	We have had this debate for many weeks, since the first reading of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u273	And even on the street!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u274	One day without end, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u275	Yes, but we also explain to you, without end, the same thing: the status of volunteer prevents the launch of a recruitment campaign from being fixed in the marble of the law. That has been told and repeated to you. Our aim is to increase the number of conciliators, which is already substantially the case, as the rapporteur has rightly said. Mrs Untermaier, it is incorrect to say that the conciliators are the poor parents of justice. They shall be entitled to a flat-rate allowance, known as small administrative expenses, supplemented by reimbursement of their kilometric costs on presentation of evidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u276	How much? Say how much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u277	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u278	This is perfectly statutory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u279	800 euros a year! It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u280	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 821.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u281	This amendment, tabled by Mrs Rabault, is intended to supplement the first paragraph of the article by the words: "by clearly distinguishing the number of posts created from the number of posts actually filled". Indeed, the Ministry of Justice is one of those with a great difference between the employment ceilings and the positions actually filled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u283	Unfavorable opinion. First of all, the wording of this amendment seems to me to be unique. Secondly, it is satisfied that the annual report will contain all the elements you are asking for, particularly with regard to the budget, which will make it possible to assess the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u284	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u285	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u286	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u287	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u288	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u289	Every week, the media reports on crimes or offences committed by persons who are recidivism or repeat offences. It is therefore urgent to draw up a precise picture of these situations, which are unbearable for our fellow citizens, especially for the victims and their families. The aim of this amendment is therefore to make progress by 31 December 2019 at the latest on the submission of the report concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u291	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u293	The same advice is that the deadline is too short.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u294	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 713.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u295	This amendment is based on a Spanish prison programme, the "respecto" modules. In France, as part of the 2014 national plan for the prevention of violence and the 2013 protocol on the development of the supervisory profession, prisons have used this Spanish scheme to experiment with so-called "trust" modules. Today, 18 prisons have opened them and 20 additional facilities are planning to do so between 2018 and 2020. We share the aims of this mechanism, the benefits of which seem to be numerous. Indeed, the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty, in a 2017 opinion, considered this mechanism to be interesting "in that it promotes the autonomy of individuals and reduces security constraints". However, this experience is also criticized: the regulation is drastic, the too small number of places leads to a change in the consent of detained persons and the system is based on two-speed detention. That is why, through this amendment, we propose that the Government submit a report assessing the trust modules experienced since 2015, including the effects on the evolution of violence in detention, the accountability of prisoners in preparing for their reintegration and the prison professions. For a system which is intended to expand, we need to have as precise an assessment as possible, which we propose to include in the report provided for in the first paragraph of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u297	My opinion is unfavorable, because the amendment by Mr Naïma Moutchou, which we adopted at first reading, sufficiently specifies the arrangements. The second sentence of paragraph 3 of this article states: "The possibilities of extending these modules are also analysed". The drafting is sufficient, because we cannot consider, at this stage, a generalization of these trust modules.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u298	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u299	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u300	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u301	I will try to be as clear as possible. This amendment provides for the drafting of a report and not for the generalisation of the "respecto" module, which is not possible in the immediate future. The report would provide a useful analysis to consider this as the standard for the management of detention. If it is thought to be successful, such as reducing violence in prison or improving the involvement of prisoners in collective life, a report may want to present ways to generalize it. It doesn't seem too "deciding"! I would like to say that the current wording already makes it possible to carry out evaluations, but, in reality, the report provided for in the text will not deal with this subject and will not envisage that this module becomes the norm of detention, which is the case in Spain, with much better results than ours. Either we're ambitious and we're studying how to deploy this module, including its implications for buildings and recruitment, or we're doing like you: from "com"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u302	Mr Jean Lassalle, on Rule 2, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President; I think you're excellent, as I've already told you,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u304	[[Laughs]] Thank you for recognizing him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u305	...because you preside with fingering and take pleasure in doing so. In the same way, the Minister of Justice takes pleasure in being here tonight, because she does not hear too many bad things. In addition, she is pleased to have saved the Court of Appeal in Pau, where I was very well on Monday – I would have stayed there all day if the doors had not closed. I hear more and more comments on statutory placements of young children. Parents, who usually don't get along at all, are surprised that their child is being taken away from them. I don't know if there's anything to do in this area, but wherever I go to France – you know I'm moving a lot – I'm being told about this subject. I'll take the rest of my minute to talk about guardianship. I've already talked about senior tutoring, but junior tutoring is also a problem. I have met with those who deal with the issue: they are concerned that the Government may propose that the audit and approval of the accounts, assigned to the directors of the judicial registry services, be carried out by the subrogate of the guardian. They all ask that the judge remain in control of the situation, even if and especially if he is accompanied by qualified professionals. The same fear is expressed with regard to article 17: again, we hope that the judge will remain at the command post. Generally speaking, the authority of the judge cannot be replaced. [[Smile]] Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for supporting me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u306	On the identical amendments Nos 345, 654 and 714, which tend to delete the article, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 345.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u307	This amendment is indeed intended to delete Article 2. Today, when a court is brought before it, it is not known when the court decision will be rendered, but we are sure that there will be one. Tomorrow, if Article 2 were to be voted, not only would the date remain unknown, but we would no longer have the certainty of obtaining a decision. Your text, Madam Minister, provides that the judge may order mediation at any time in the proceedings – I say "order": a few days ago, I visualized a video in which the rapporteur tries to soften the scope of the bill by stating that it is a question of proposing mediation, not imposing it. Fortunately, the mediation solution will not be imposed on the parties! On the other hand, mediation itself, at any time in the proceedings, will be ordered by the judge who has chosen it, which will constitute a further obstacle to the rendering of a judicial decision. I maintain that the establishment of alternative dispute settlement methods needs to be developed, and that the title of Chapter I, Section 1 of Title II – "Developing the culture of alternative dispute settlement" – reflects a laudable intention. However, we do not develop the culture with sticks. The parties are not required to choose mediation. That's impossible. Madam rapporteur, like me, you know the saying: 'A bad arrangement is better than a good trial'.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u308	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u309	However, the trial is good for one reason: it gives force to the law. In fact, the court decision is given on behalf of the French people and the parties obtain a judgment which finally settles the dispute under the law. Too much mediation will be done, and sourness will be multiplied, because mediation is necessarily done with renunciations on both sides in order to reach an agreement, which is certainly imperfect, but the problem is solved. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We have understood that this is the nerve of the war of the present reform of the justice system: discouraging the justiciable and inciting him to no longer go to court, so as not to have to commit any additional means. However, all of this is contrary to the fundamental principles that govern our justice. The abolition of Article 2 therefore depends on the balance of our institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u310	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 654.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u311	While promoting alternative dispute resolution is undeniably necessary, systematizing them may distort justice. The extension of the field of compulsory prior conciliation denies lawyers their place in the judicial process, even though it is trained in alternative dispute resolution methods, and further complicates the judicial procedure. Moreover, given the diversity of alternative dispute resolution methods, this could result in two-tiered justice. If conciliation is free of charge, this is not the case with mediation or participatory procedures. In addition, the judge may use his or her discretion to direct the parties to meet with a mediator. The very nature of discretion is to be exercised with discretion. The judge cannot systematically compel litigants to submit to a mode of dispute resolution that would not suit them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u312	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 714.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u313	I agree with what Mr Savignat has said. I would add that the proposed reform can have perverse effects. If you file an appeal before the judge when, in fact, you are subject to mandatory mediation, the judge's response time may exceed the appeal period, so that mediation remains the only possible way. On the contrary, if mediation begins, it has a suspensive character, which allows a judge to be brought before it if it does not succeed. The device works in one direction and not in the other. Beware of the perverse effects in this matter! Clearly, Madam Minister, by making mediation mandatory, you intend to set up a contract. Of course, mediation is useful in many cases. However, in cases where it is not – if the parties are really in conflict and there is no reason to force them to agree if it is impossible – making it mandatory adds an additional step to the proceedings – if the mediation is completed – and above all discourages the parties from bringing their dispute before the judge. This is a way to reduce the number of cases brought to the attention of the judiciary, because it does not recruit enough to satisfy the needs of our society in terms of justice! I want to go back in every direction, but that's how it is. If free dispute settlement methods existed, they could be discussed, provided that they were truly developed. But the conciliators are compensated and too few, as you yourself have recognized, so much so that a provision of Article 2 suspends the obligation to resort to mediation if no conciliator is available: that is to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u315	Unfavorable opinion. Mr Savignat, thank you for following me on social networks. As far as the possibility of ordering mediation or not is concerned, I have said this in the Chamber and I repeat: we cannot, today, neither tomorrow nor ever, order an amicable settlement of disputes. Therefore, the parties cannot be compelled to reach conciliation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u316	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u317	On the other hand, parties can already be asked to meet with a mediator in order to be informed about the mediation process. This is the case in certain procedures, e.g. due process, without any obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u318	It's not a mediation, it's a conciliation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u319	No! I am referring here to the procedures for appeal in the matter of employment and not to the obligation of conciliation in the first instance. A mediator may be interviewed during a briefing on the conduct of the mediation. The parties may then decide, with full knowledge of the matter, whether or not they wish to use it. If the deletion amendments were voted on, the existing arrangements would be retained. These, with regard to amicable settlement of disputes of less than 4000 euros, are governed by an imperfect text, voted in 2016, providing for an obligation to settle disputes by conciliation. However, we are well aware that this method of amicable settlement of disputes does not allow all disputes to be dealt with in the courts of appeal. The so-called "J21" law provides for the inadmissibility of the dispute if the proceedings before the court of first instance are not preceded by an attempt at conciliation. This text improves the system by broadening the scope of amicable dispute resolution methods such as mediation and participatory procedure, while providing for certain exceptions, in particular in the absence of an available conciliator. The amendments would therefore remove a necessary and considerable improvement of a text voted in the previous parliamentary term. Finally, to answer your question, Mr Bernalicis, a decree in Council of State will be issued to clarify the conditions for the application of Article 2. It is not a question of suspending or extinguishing the court of first instance or of provoking a statute of limitations by applying its provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u321	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u322	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u323	According to the title of Section 1 of Chapter I of Title II of the text, it is "to develop the culture of alternative dispute settlement". In this case, we do not develop, we impose! You do not impose a culture, Madam Minister, but a method of resolving disputes, without which one cannot appear before the judge. That is the reality of what you are proposing. Assume it! Go to the end of your logic! Madam rapporteur, if you think that the provisions on disputes of less than EUR 4000 in force are too restrictive because of an insufficient number of conciliators, delete them! Or increase the number of conciliators! Or create a public conciliation service! Do something about it, but make a real progressive proposal instead of saying that deleting Article 2 will lead to chaos! Moreover, I do not have the impression that chaos prevails in our country with regard to first instance justice. Tomorrow, on the other hand, with your arrangements, you will invite people to use paid resolution channels. That is the reality! The litigants will go on the Internet, on a more or less certified platform – we don't know – where they will be told: "Give us 50 or 60 euros and we will tell you if your approach is likely to succeed, which will be faster than a passage before the judge". That's the reality! That's the model you're defending. Take him to the end! We have a very clear opposition on this subject: yes, you want to keep the litigant away from the judge and the justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u324	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u325	Madam rapporteur, social networks are not a guarantee of seriousness or credibility. So that's not why I quoted what you said. [["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] As for your answer, honestly, at this point in the debate, it leaves me only one desire: to cry. It's disgusting! The minister put the bar very high earlier, talking about my lack of confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u326	Not about you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u327	If I were to cross a course – I dare not – my remarks would be outraged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u328	Don't dare, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u329	In the appeal courts of the social chambers, a conciliator may be used, not a mediator. Conciliation is not mediation. Conciliation, as Mr Gosselin rightly pointed out earlier, is a mechanism made available free of charge to litigants in an attempt to reach a resolution of the dispute. This is not the case with mediation. You want to reform the justice system but you have no idea what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u330	Absolutely none, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u331	Indeed, you have just supported me with aplomb that there are mediators in the appeal courts of the social chambers. There isn't one! There are conciliators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u332	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u333	[[Mr. Dino Cinieri, Ms. Emmanuelle Ménard and Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applaud]] You are dismaying in your explanations. On the other hand, I understood that you do not impose amicable resolution of disputes, but you must touch wood given what you are able to propose! To force the parties to agree would have been an additional course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u334	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u335	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u336	I will try to reason with Mr Savignat, even if the time is late and everyone warms up a little. My dear colleague – and colleague –, you know very well, with regard to alternative dispute resolution methods, even once the judgement is handed down in the Court of Appeal, that the first president of the Court of Appeal or the judge in charge of the structure can appoint a mediator. This is quite possible and it works. You know very well that it gives results. I'd like to convince you with an argument that I repeated several times. The risk, in your opinion, is that the judge will find that the parties are close to an agreement and will order mediation in pure loss. In fact, this risk does not exist, as the judge has absolutely no interest in ordering mediation that would further increase the length of the proceedings. You know that judges are very attached – please excuse this disgraceful expression – to the management of their stock. They are concerned about the length of the proceedings. As a result, they know that the failure of the mediation they might order will cause them to lose two or three months, the time that the parties meet with the mediator. If the judge knows very well that the mediation has no chance of success, he will not propose it, because the case would come back to him and he would be obliged to decide. Have a little faith in the magistrates! They are there to assess, given a situation and their dialogue with the parties, whether or not they are in a position to propose mediation, at least in the form of a first appointment, if the parties are able to do so. There is no loss of access to the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u337	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u338	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat that the judge will resume the case if the mediation attempt fails. Don't worry! The device is quite relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u339	It's also a way of managing the stock!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u340	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 345, 654 and 714.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u341	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 46 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 12 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u342	I have before me three amendments, Nos 243, 691 and 692, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Habib to support Amendment No. 243.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u343	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u344	The next speaker is Mr Vincent Rolland, in support of Amendment No. 691.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u345	The oversimplified wording of article 21 of the Act of 8 February 1995 is a source of confusion. Common language no longer makes mediation a generic term, but a process distinct from other alternative dispute resolution methods. These have proved to be a genuine modality of litigation, using and burdensome judicial channels. It is therefore a matter of legislating to the benefit of alternative means of settlement of the different, so that they are increasingly chosen by the people who are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u346	Mr Rolland, you have the floor to support Amendment No 692.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u347	The definition given by this amendment removes the confusion created by the latest version of article 21 of the Act of 8 February 1995, and then shows that while conciliation and mediation contribute to the same objectives, the values underlying them are different.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u348	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1118.u349	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union; Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the 2018-2022 and Justice Reform Programming Bill and the Organic Bill on Strengthening the Organization of Courts. The meeting is adjourned.
