ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u1	The next item is the public finance policy debate for 2020. The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u2	Mr President, Mr Gérald, the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, the rapporteur-general of the budget, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to meet you for the third time, together with Gérald Darmanin, for this debate on the direction of public finances, which gives me the opportunity to draw up before you the economic and budgetary guidelines of the Government. A budget is an instrument for economic policy; The first is to know where we are, economically, in France and in Europe. French growth remains strong, despite a marked and worrying slowdown in global growth, primarily due to tensions between China and the United States and the resulting slowdown in world trade. At this stage, we estimate our growth in 2019 at 1.4%, compared with 1.3% for the euro area and 0.8% for our German partner. These forecasts, similar to those of the main business institutes, show the sincerity of our assessments. But, as every year, we will re-evaluate them, if necessary, when the finance bill is introduced, in the light of the latest data available. The second element that I would like to stress is unemployment, which has been at the lowest level since 2009. We have created more than 500,000 jobs since 2017; We have created 26000 jobs in the industrial sector – I insist on this figure because I believe in the industrial recovery of France and, for the first time in fifteen years, we are opening more factories than we do. This economic situation is unprecedented. It is characterized by low inflation, low global growth, and low and even negative interest rates in the short term. This new situation, which could be settled on a long-term basis, calls for a few comments. First of all, these low rates have, of course, positive consequences for the financing of French debt; The debt burden will decrease temporarily. But, in the context of a slowdown in global activity, the reduction of tax debts outweighs the reduction of the debt burden. I would therefore like to remove an illusion at once: there will be no budget pool linked to the reduction in interest rates. Secondly, these low rates opened an economic debate on the desirability of additional debt. Should we get into more debt? This is an idea proposed by some economists, notably Olivier Blanchard. This reasoning, valid for states that have been reducing their debt for years, is not, in our view, valid for a country like France that has seen its public debt increase by 30 percentage points between 2007 and 2017 – it is now close to 100 per cent of our gross domestic product. Nor is this a valid reasoning for a country whose public expenditure remains the highest of all the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the OECD. So I want to be very clear: we will continue our public debt reduction policy. We are taking a slower rate of reduction, given the slowdown in the economic situation, but our objective remains the same. As I have already had the opportunity to say on several occasions, debt is a slow poison, certainly slower and slower, but a poison despite everything. This does not prevent us from creating room for manoeuvre in order to continue to invest massively in innovation and the energy transition, on the basis of a constant economic policy choice and reaffirmed by the President of the Republic, that of a supply policy. This choice made in 2017 was announced to the French by the President of the Republic, and we maintain it. This stability will reinforce the first results already achieved. This supply policy translates into tax choices for businesses, entrepreneurs and employment. The transformation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – the CICE – into a reduction in long-term expenses in 2019 represents a 20 billion euro gain for all companies. We will reduce corporate tax for all businesses, and its rate will be reduced to 25% by 2022 for all businesses, all without exception, in accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic. Moreover, this tax will fall by 2020 for all companies. I have heard the concerns of some of them, particularly the larger ones, those with a turnover of more than EUR 250 million, and I want to reassure them: their tax will fall well by 2020, with a rate going from 33.3% to 31%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u3	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u4	For the others, the decline already under way will continue: the rate will rise from 31 per cent this year to 28 per cent in 2020. It is therefore a general reduction in corporate tax that will take place for all companies, but it will take account of their size in the interests of justice. This tax policy is useful for businesses; It is also useful to the economic attractiveness of our country. I would remind you that this year we have become the most attractive country in Europe for foreign industrial investment and research and development. It is therefore a key to our attractiveness and competitiveness. This will allow our companies to invest more, innovate and fight better in global competition. We cannot at the same time recognize that the twenty-first century is one of technological disruptions and of the imperative need to invest and innovate, and not to give our companies sufficient room to invest, innovate, succeed in international markets – which will allow them to create jobs in our territory. In total, over the five-year period, taxes will fall by €13 billion for our companies. Furthermore, I am convinced – as you know – of the need to continue our reflection on production taxes, which are much higher in France than in our main European partners, thereby penalising the industrial sector in particular. The 2025 productive pact, for which the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have given me responsibility, will provide an opportunity to formulate long-term proposals on these taxes. The Economic Analysis Council has drawn up a report on this subject, which has been complemented by the excellent work of Members Sacha Houlié and Pierre Person: we can draw on their analysis. On the other hand, I would like to say that I am not convinced of funding that would be based on a challenge to burden relief, and therefore on an increase in the cost of labour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u5	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u6	So it's not that great!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u7	Our companies need stability, and their costs must be competitive. Finally, we maintain the great balance of our innovation policy. The breakout innovation fund has already funded five major challenges, including three related to artificial intelligence, including algorithms. Muriel Pénicaud, Minister of Labour, Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education and Youth, and I will continue our training and qualification efforts. All this complements our offer policy. The second structural choice of our economic policy alongside supply-side policy: pay for work. This choice must be further accentuated in order to respond to the social crisis that has taken place in our country. The yellow vest crisis was a labour-value crisis; a crisis of recognition of work; a pay-for-work crisis; a crisis of the consideration given by the work. Beyond the measures announced on 10 December by the President of the Republic, we decided to reduce the income tax by €5 billion for 17 million French, starting on 1 January 2020. This decline, which rewards work, is in addition to the revalorisation of the activity premium, the defied end-of-year premium, the defiance of overtime, the abolition of any tax on self-interest and participation, and all the measures that the majority has taken over the past two years to pay more for work and to accompany those who have a job. It is therefore €27 billion less taxes for households, plus €13 billion less taxes for businesses, representing a total tax reduction of €40 billion over the five-year period. It is a historic decline, for both households and businesses, which allows us to break with ten years of continuous increase in tax pressure in France. What are the consequences of these economic policy choices in terms of public finances? The Minister of Public Action and Accounts and I maintain the same objective, the same strategic line: the restoration of public finances. France's deleveraging is a necessity for our political independence and for our long-term economic well-being. The government deficit will continue to fall from 2.3% excluding CICE this year to 2.1% in 2020, well below the 3% mark, which we have been following since the beginning of the quinquennium. Thanks to us, our country, which had not experienced a deficit of less than 3% for ten years, is entering the nails, in the interests of all. This reduction in income tax in 2020 will be partly financed by a reduction in tax niches for businesses, as announced by the President of the Republic: it is legitimate, at a time when all companies are seeing their corporate tax rates decline. The first niche will be non-road diesel. This choice is consistent with our desire to accelerate France's energy transition. We have already discussed the issue of non-road diesel in this House together, and I am very happy to acknowledge our mistakes on this subject – in particular the lack of consultation, the lack of accompaniment by the companies concerned and the too rapid abolition of the reduced tariff. This does not remove the need to change this fiscal niche, and to remove it in the long term. However, it is necessary to act in conjunction with the professionals concerned; That's what we've been doing for several weeks. I have therefore conducted consultations with all the actors involved in this choice. Gérald Darmanin and I have assigned to the General Inspectorate of Finance and the General Council of Economy, Industry, Energy and Technology the task of assessing the impact of this measure, sector by sector. We have chosen a gradual abolition with compensation. As far as progressivity is concerned, the reduced tariff will be abolished in three years, in order to contribute to the gradual greening of our taxes. At the request of the professionals concerned, the first increase will only occur on 1 July 2020, not on 1 January 2020. We have accepted this shift in order to allow them time to adapt, and that everyone is well prepared. As for the scope of this measure, neither farmers nor rail transport will be affected by this abolition of the reduced tariff. This will make it possible to release 900 million euros in the long term, and just over 200 million euros in 2020. There will be compensation measures. They were discussed with professionals; They seem just and necessary to me. We will introduce a general price review clause on public and private contracts, as well as financial incentives, in the form of depreciation, to acquire cleaner equipment, in particular small-scale electric construction vehicles, which are intended to develop. We have already talked about this together in this House. We will also introduce exemptions for industries most exposed to international competition, including port handling and extractive industries. Finally, we will expand the value added tax compensation fund – VATIF – to include heavy network maintenance. The related cost will be borne, I would like to point out, by the State. This is the set of compensation and accompanying measures that we have planned for the construction and public works sectors, which are the first to be affected by this measure. They result from numerous consultations with stakeholders, and allow us to move towards greener taxation without threatening the economic balance of these companies. The second tax system that will be concerned is sponsorship. Corporate patronage is growing very dynamically. Donations and the number of patrons are on the rise, and there is no question of us weakening this dynamic. But we see, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' last report, that some companies are now benefiting from the bounty effects that we want to control and suppress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u9	The Government will therefore present measures to contain the tax advantage that large companies derive from patronage. Franck Riester and Gabriel Attal will announce, within a few weeks, the precise modalities of this measure after the consultations they have conducted with the patron companies as well as with the beneficiary institutions and associations. The third niche concerned is the research tax credit – CIR. The IRC is a pillar of our innovation policy. There is therefore no question of calling into question the great balances. It makes our territory more attractive, for example, by allowing a French engineer to be twice as expensive as an American engineer. The CIR is one of the great successes of French tax policy and innovation policy; He is sanctified, and he will remain. But we can make it even more effective. I would like to thank the rapporteur-general Joël Giraud for the proposals he has made on this subject, which we will continue to make. We will also rely on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. The driving force behind innovation is engineers and investments, much more than operating expenses. The Court of Auditors has recommended for years that we reduce operating costs to between 40% and 46%. This is the only point on which, for the sake of justice and efficiency, we will modify the IRC. This rate of operating costs in the CIR will be reduced to 43%, which will make it possible to release EUR 200 million by 2021. In total, the amount of tax niche reductions – non-road diesel, sponsorship, CIR – will be around 600 million euros in 2020 and 1.4 billion euros from 2021 onwards, taking into account the specific flat-rate deduction that Gérald Darmanin will explain to you in a few moments. Finally, this national strategy naturally continues with a European and international economic strategy aimed at reviving growth. The euro area is not intended to remain the zone of weak growth: it is its future, and that of our common currency, that will be at stake if we continue to resign. We must do everything we can to invest, innovate more and enable the euro area to return to sustainable growth. This is the meaning of the growth pact that I have proposed to all our European partners for several weeks, and which I presented again to the German Finance Minister, Olaf Scholz, to the President of the CDU, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, and to the President of the German Federation of the Dieter Kempf Industry a few days ago. This European growth pact takes into account the new international economic environment I have presented to you, low interest rates and an accommodative monetary policy. It is based on three pillars that allow us to take into account the different situations in each of the euro area Member States – because we are not all in the same situation. The first pillar is structural reforms, which are needed in some countries to restore competitiveness and to restore a satisfactory level of productivity to create jobs. That is exactly what we are doing in France, under the leadership of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, by pursuing the necessary reforms, including the reform of unemployment compensation. The second pillar, without which there is no credibility, is the fulfilment of European public finance commitments. Finally, the third pillar is additional investment by Member States with a budgetary surplus, which can now invest and sustain growth throughout the euro area. This is particularly the case for Germany, which must use its surpluses to invest in infrastructure and innovation, thereby putting its economic power at the service of growth in the euro area. Finally, at the international level, I would like to recall the continued involvement of the President of the Republic with the G7 and G20 Heads of State to reduce trade tensions that affect global growth; Today they are only losers and explain the slowdown in growth that I mentioned earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are the few major elements of economic policy and the budgetary choices that I wanted to present to you before leaving the floor to the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, Gérald Darmanin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u11	On June 18, a rare event occurred in our fiscal history, as the French 10-year borrowing rate became negative. This news can be interpreted in different ways. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance referred to the political and economic debates it has brought about. Some believe that this is good news, and that we should lock ourselves up even more in debt – after all, borrowing brings back money! Why don't you go on with this magic trick? Others, on the contrary, believe that this is a dangerously leniency situation, and that the coming months will abruptly ring the end of illusions. I am neither of these, nor of these. For my part, I see this as a sign of the great credit that our creditors give us. When public debt reaches almost 100 per cent of national wealth, having credit with its creditors is a good thing. The comparison with our main economic partners, like Italy, is eloquent. The credibility that we enjoy, I have the weakness to believe that it is the efforts made since 2017 by this majority and this Government to put our accounts in order that we owe it. To those who would like to see only the effects of an accommodative monetary policy of the European Central Bank, I would point out that if we were to apply Italian interest rates to French debt, we would have to pay more than 10 billion additional interest. Clearly, making reforms lowers the cost of money. It is in this context that this debate on the direction of public finances, which is at the heart of our budgetary timetable, begins at the crossroads of the execution of the accounts of last year – we had this discussion a few weeks ago – and the programming of our future public finances. This will be an opportunity for the Government to demonstrate how it intends, "at the same time", the rapporteur-general, to reduce taxes massively – a reduction of 27 billion euros for households – and to reduce our public deficits massively. Indeed, as you can see, the government deficit in the pre-discussion report amounts to 2.1% of GDP, which is 27 billion euros less than when we took office. I would like to recall that the Court of Auditors calculated the deficit at 3.4% when we arrived in July 2017. It is enough, moreover, to look at the past, to look closely at the accounts for 2017 and, above all, for 2018, to see that we have financed our priorities without abandoning the imperative of fiscal seriousness. We have already met this challenge, and we will continue to meet it. I would first like to focus for a moment on the good results of 2017 and 2018. The numbers speak for themselves. Between 2017 and 2018, expenditure decreased by 0.3 percentage points of GDP. Between 2017 and 2018, compulsory levies decreased by 0.2 percentage points of GDP. Between 2017 and 2018, the government deficit decreased to 2.5%, 0.9% less than when we arrived.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u12	Thank you François!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u13	Finally, between 2017 and 2018, for the first time in many years, our debt has stabilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u14	It's self-satisfaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u15	I should like to add that the macroeconomic forecasts on which we based our action were retrospectively correct, which is the main characteristic of the Government: realistic and sincere management. In fact, the results are there. The state spent 1.4 billion euros less in 2018 than the target voted in the initial finance law according to the standard of pilotable expenditure. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate, on behalf of the Government, the usefulness of the motion for a resolution adopted by your Assembly on the initiative of Mrs Goulet to remedy this. In the social sphere, the objective of the evolution of health insurance expenditure has been met and health expenditure has increased less thanks to the good management of the Government, which has even made possible the redistribution of 300 million euros to hospitals in all the territories of the Republic; Social security accounts continued to recover, as in 2018 they improved by €3.9 billion compared to 2017. They are now close to balance – a situation that social security has not experienced since 2001. These results demonstrate that it is possible to maintain social accounts while financing purchasing power measures in favour of assets. Finally, in the local authorities, it must be noted that the contract-making, which has been widely denounced here by the oppositions, has worked and worked well. Not only is it in line with the Constitution, but it has allowed the most modest municipalities not to be forced and not to suffer any downsizing. On average, in the field of local authorities, a 0.2 per cent decrease in operating costs was observed, well below the Cahors contract. In view of today's debate, the Government has transmitted the results achieved by the communities to the Special Rapporteur, Jean-René Cazeneuve. You will find that the regions and departments have remained close to the national target, so that on average, the results for 2018 are favourable: there is a sharp slowdown in operating expenditure and a strong public investment to help boost our economy. I mentioned earlier, with regard to social accounts, good results: I may have been very quick, because they must be stressed. The purchasing power of our citizens, the liberation of our economy and the investment for the future are the triptych that guides the Government in its endeavour to revive the French economy. I am thinking here of the 30% reduction in the amount of the housing tax for 80% of French citizens, the improvement of social benefits, the reform of the taxation of capital, the reduction of the tax on companies or the increase in the appropriations allocated to the ecological transition and the protection – internal as well as external – of our compatriots. As you will understand, the budget for which we are fighting is in line with the announcements made by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. There is no miracle: to succeed this "at the same time" which combines fiscal seriousness with a reduction in taxes in order to clean up the country's finances while keeping the promises made to the French, one must have the courage to reform. That's what we do. When we cut down on the volume of aided contracts in return for a massive investment in training for the unemployed, when we transform the CICE into a reduction in long-term burdens, when we reform the SNCF, when we succeed in the tax-receipt at the source of income tax, when we transform the social system of the self-employed, when we reform the public service, when we remove massively small taxes – for which I greet Laurent Saint-Martin –, when we completely reform our system of tax and social contributions collection, when we radically review public subsidies for housing, yes, we transform the country. Sometimes in difficulty, sometimes under the quilibets of opposition, we transform the country. We are not going to stop there because the first results, of which everyone can rejoice, are at the rendezvous. The unemployment rate is falling: today it is 8.4%. France's attractiveness is growing and our country is now the second largest in the world in terms of foreign direct investment. And, of course, the purchasing power of the French is increasing significantly more than in the last ten years. Act II of the quinquennium opens in a context which, if different, does not alter the course of government: we will maintain this "at the same time" while taking into account the social demands expressed in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything has changed between Act I and Act II of the quinquennium, that is not our determination. The context, it is true, is no longer the same; But to do politics is to take account of realities. First, growth is forecast to be lower for 2020, with an expected rate of 1.4%. This slowdown, both global and European, will obviously have an impact on tax revenues. Secondly, we have decided to provide a frank and massive response to the ecological, economic and social emergency: this response was expressed in the Prime Minister's general policy speech, which was inspired by the announcements made by the President of the Republic at the end of the major debate. The difficulties will not cause us to give up our ambitions for tax cuts, unlike so many governments before us. On the contrary, we have accentuated them: between the reduction of income tax and the abolition of the housing tax, it is 27 billion euros of purchasing power that will be returned to the French by 2022. This is the largest decline decided by a government of the Republic; In addition, social security contributions have been abolished. The Minister of the Economy and Finance and I will present the income tax reform to you during the discussion of the next finance bill. This reform is possible thanks to the introduction of source sampling; As of next January, the French will be able to see a decline. It will primarily benefit the 12 million taxable households that are the first instalment of the scale, i.e. those whose net income is less than 2550 euros for a single person – double that for a couple. They will benefit from an average gain of 350 euros. Secondly, since this is an ambitious reform – it affects 95% of French people who pay income tax – all households that are taxed in the 30% tranche will experience an average tax reduction of 180 euros. A total of 17 million families, i.e. almost all taxable households, will experience an average tax reduction of 300 euros. [[Smile]] Let me mention another major transformation that the Government wanted and that, when we debate the finance bill, will occupy us for some time – or a certain time, as comedian Raymond Devos and my collaborator Guillaume Rauffet would say. This is the reform of local taxation following the abolition of the housing tax. Let us make it clear that this is a historic decision in the history of local and regional authorities and in the tax history of our country, where it must be recognized that governments have focused more often on creating taxes than on removing them. Eliminating a tax of almost 20 billion euros is an unprecedented decision: if one has sometimes substituted one tax for another, as was the case with the business tax, we have never removed a 20 billion tax without replacing it. This is a crucial gesture that reshapes the relationship of citizens to taxation and is also a step in favour of the purchasing power of the middle classes. This gesture also responds to a major imperative of social justice: the local tax had become unfair and obsolete, the last revision of rental values dating back to the time when Mr Chaban-Delmas was Prime Minister. We will carry out this reform by respecting two imperatives on which the Government will not give in: not to replace the housing tax with another tax and to compensate the costs for local authorities with the euro. The State will assume its decision, and will compensate it in full from its own resources, bearing only the cost of abolishing it. The reform will be proposed to Parliament in the next finance bill. It will be effective on 1 January 2021, which will allow for the inclusion in the finance bill for the year 2021 and in the amending finance bill of any corrections decided upon after negotiations with the elected associations. Ladies and gentlemen, for the third year in a row, this budget reflects our political choices and priorities. It continues to invest in human capital, thanks to the rise in the skills investment plan and very substantial increases in funding for national education and research. It also invests in social and ecological capital, as indicated by the very significant increase in the ceilings of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Ministry of Transport. The pursuit of an ambitious energy transition path is therefore not only confirmed, but accelerated. Finally, this budget draws the accounting lessons from past transformations: that of housing subsidies, with the contemporaneization of personalized housing subsidies, and the reduction of solidarity rent; vocational training; the one that takes place within my own ministry, which introduced the levy at source and started a recovery reform – the contemporaneization of social benefits was moreover possible thanks to the levy at source. We assume the budgetary consequences of our decisions. Yes, we are making the choice to reduce taxes massively to meet the economic and social emergency. Yes, we make the choice to fund our priorities, especially ecological ones. This leads us to revise the timetable for certain objectives: the reduction in debt, which has already been mentioned by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, or the reduction in the number of public officials. However, the essential thing is preserved: neither the objective of reducing compulsory levies nor that of reducing public expenditure is called into question. To do so, we will have to be pragmatic and determined. At the initiative of Émilie Cariou, this assembly has already changed our budget copy in 2019 with regard to capital gains on equity. It also passed a bill to create a digital services tax and to change the downward trajectory of corporate tax, introduced by the Minister of Economy and Finance, whose revenues will make our fiscal trajectory more transparent. As the Government indicated last December following the announcement of the President of the Republic, we will cancel €1.5 billion of appropriations from the State budget, which corresponds to 3 per cent of frozen appropriations. This amount must be compared to the under-consumption of $1.4 billion for 2018, making it entirely acceptable to departments. You will see that the Government – and I myself – have kept our promises: it is Parliament that will carry out these cancellations, on the proposal of the Government. No advance orders have been made in the last two fiscal years, because we are respectful of parliamentary decisions. Similarly, the President of the Republic invited the Government and Parliament to exercise pragmatism in order to finance the measures decided upon at the end of the major debate. I have no doubt that they will be voted on by some of the parliamentary opposition groups, which have supported them. This is particularly the case with the 5 billion reduction in income tax. I therefore invite those who are about to vote in favour of this measure to support, at the same time with courage, those who are destined to finance it – unless they consider that debt is an appropriate response to the crisis we have experienced; But the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has pointed out that this is not the policy we want to pursue. One of the paths chosen, Bruno Le Maire has just recalled, is the reduction of tax and social expenditure. It is quite normal, at a time when we are massively lowering taxes, particularly corporate taxes, to review the derogations. This framework was drawn up by the President of the Republic. Let me mention here only the specific lump sum deduction, which Olivier Dussopt and I have limited in the context of reducing social niches. This reduction in contributions benefited companies in certain sectors without any connection to the actual professional costs incurred. This social niche, dating back to 1930, had become an anti-social niche: in fact, a pregnant woman working in a building or transport company was not entitled to the same replacement wage as another woman working in a sector not covered by the specific flat-rate deduction, DFS, since she contributed on a lower basis. It is therefore also, Mr rapporteur-general, a measure of social justice for the workers and employees of our country. The framework for this increase in general relief by the DFS is expected to represent some €400 million in savings next year: this is the largest niche we are decreasing. Efforts will also be needed to reduce public spending. Many reforms will soon be announced: the public audiovisual sector, the unemployment insurance sector, as well as the follow-up of housing and public policy and public accounts. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. We must also control our social spending, which requires compliance with ONDAM – the national goal of health insurance expenditure. I would also like to stress that we continue to boost the budget through the accuracy of budget entries, the rationalization of resources allocated to third parties – assigned taxes, funds without legal personality, trust accounts – and the improvement of the control of social and tax expenditure. The Government will renew its proposal to freeze only 3 per cent of the appropriations of the ministries, which makes our programme managers accountable: I recall the previous Government's practice, where this rate was about 8 per cent. As I speak to you, these appropriations have still not been thawed, which shows our budgetary sincerity. This goes hand in hand with the strengthening of the scope of parliamentary authorization and the monitoring of the Government's action. In other words, nothing will happen without you. As far as the governance of tax expenditure is concerned, we will rely on the work of Parliament and in particular on the motion for a resolution adopted unanimously last month by François Jolivet. Indeed, we need to strengthen the assessment of these costs and introduce more stringent pilotage rules, one not without the other: it is because we limit niches that we must compel ourselves to better evaluate them. Who benefits? How much do they cost? Do they achieve objectives commensurate with the taxpayer's efforts? The limitation of these niches over time will mark their derogatory character. Parliament was right to adopt such a resolution: tax niches are not meant to last and their effectiveness must be questioned at all times. That's what taxpayers are asking us to do. Finally, the fiscal debate will be an opportunity for the Government and Parliament to work to improve the presentation of our budgetary choices, both in terms of environmental transition and in terms of gender equality. [[Smile]] That's what we call green budgeting in good French in Paris – I think we say the same thing to Évreux. Next year, we will present a "green" budget, corresponding to the commitment of the President of the Republic to climate change. Again, this will be a first. As you know, we are working, at the initiative of Bénédicte Peyrol, on the identification of all expenditures and revenues contributing to the achievement of environmental objectives, through a new budget yellow whose first draft will be appended to the Finance Bill for 2020. In addition, an inspection mission will issue its conclusions this summer, in parallel with the work of the High Council on Climate. We are also working to improve, under the auspices of the OECD, methods of assessing these expenditures and revenues, as well as their harmonization among countries. France is working with its European colleagues to define a reference document that is legible and understandable to all. I would also remind you that next year we will transform the tax credit into a premium for the energy transition. This change expected by our fellow citizens is more just socially, because the most modest households will be able to benefit from it, which is not the case at present. The budget cycle is a ritual that translates the presidential will and actions of the Government into action; It is accompanied by lengthy debates in committee and then in open session. But all this is quite normal when it comes to agreeing to the tax paid by the French and stopping spending. My assessment of the long discussions over the past two years is positive and reflects the good relationship between the Government and Parliament that has been achieved through budgetary sincerity. I would like to thank Mr. President-in-Office of the Council and Mr. the Presidents of the Finance Committees of the Assembly and the Senate, who have stressed this aspect, in support of the Court of Auditors' observation. This also shows that we have managed to finance our first measures in favour of purchasing power while being serious. These good results have been achieved thanks to the determined action of the Government and the parliamentary majority, as well as the opposition. It is indeed up to the latter to track and monitor government action, which is accompanied by a re-ordering of our accounts. Our duty is to consolidate this achievement from the beginning of the quinquennium and to pursue the restoration of our public accounts – not to please Brussels, not to satisfy our creditors, not because we would obey I do not know what liberal dogma, but for our sovereignty and for the sovereignty and independence of our children. We believe that it is our duty to retain our international credit, because the greatness of France goes hand in hand with respect for his word, because the taxes of the French must be used for something other than to repay our creditors, often foreigners, and because today's debt is the taxes and taxes of tomorrow, which will prevent our children from investing where the future should lead them. I am sure that we will be able to move forward together in this direction to finance the necessary tax cuts announced by the President of the Republic. I say "in concert", because I have no doubt for a moment: those in the opposition who are worried about their funding will be the first to vote on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u16	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u17	I heard the minister content himself with what he described as an unprecedented improvement in our public finances – he even tried to prove that this was the case. Before proposing a slightly different interpretation of the figures, we can collectively, I believe, satisfy ourselves with one thing: France can strive for a balance – or about – of its economic and social model. It is possible, but it requires a few conditions to be met. [[Laughs]] Your public finance model, such as donkey skin and cake, is based on a few ingredients: a pinch of growth – if possible above 1.3% –, a very strong elasticity of tax revenues, non-existent interest rates that allow several billions of euros to be saved a year, and a Europe that does not spend too much, thus easing the European levy. But one ingredient is missing: a steady decline in public spending. Without this, nothing works anymore when the tide pulls back and you see those who swim without a swimsuit. I reported on the deficit forecast for 2020: when the stability programme 2018-2022 was presented in April 2018, it was expected to reach 0.9% in 2020; Last July, at the time of the policy debate on public finances, it was announced at 1.1%; When the last finance bill was examined, it reached 1.4%; at the time of the presentation of the stability programme 2019-2022 a few months ago, it was 2.0%; and today we are 2.1%! I don't know what will happen in the fall if we continue this trend: in less than 18 months, your deficit forecast has been multiplied by almost 2.5. I said last April, and I was not the only one, that you were giving up your objectives of balancing our public finances. Not you, Minister of Action and Public Accounts: you defend them, like any minister of the budget. In reality, however, they are no longer at all a political priority of your Government! The history of this policy debate is that of several differences. First of all, we diverge structurally from our European neighbours. In 2022, we will be Europe's worst student in terms of structural deficit, even behind Spain and Italy. In five years, between 2018 and 2022, according to your forecasts, we will accumulate more than 400 billion euros in the gap between our deficits and German surpluses: it is absolutely colossal. Another worrying difference is that between the State on the one hand and local authorities and social security on the other. Today, the government deficit accounts for 125% of the overall general government deficit. By 2022, it will be 250%! One cannot have efforts and surpluses on the one hand, and on the other hand a stagnation of the government deficit at 3%. [[Smile]] The divergence also affects our public debt. Act II of the quinquennium is above all the virtual abandonment of your ambition to reduce debt, an ambition that has been divided by four. You wanted to reduce our debt ratio by 5.3 points of GDP; Now it's 1.4 points. Of which act – of which act II, if I may. I would like to remind you that, although I feel painfully that I repeat myself in every exercise of this type, we have ten points of GDP which differ from the euro area in terms of debt, whereas we were at the same level five years ago. And because our neighbors are dying five times faster than us! The rapporteur-general writes that low rates make it possible to "open up room for manoeuvre without effort" but that they have "the disadvantage of causing anaesthetic side effects". He is right: when I hear those who encourage France to become even more in debt under the pretext of low rates, I think that low rates are neither more nor less than a push-in-crime. As for spending, does it actually decrease? Obviously, not at all nominally, and not really in volume. According to the Court of Auditors, volume expenditure increased by 0.8% in 2018 and will continue to grow in 2019 and 2020. Much less than before, no doubt – of course, and fortunately – but more than it should be. You are announcing several proposals for 2020, particularly with regard to production taxes. In fact, on this point, you display the faith and vigor of the new converts. We'll see about it. You are also referring to changes in tax expenditures. Good! But, for this, you will have to rely on real reductions in spending; and you will have to pay particular attention to businesses, since you have tended to increase corporate taxes with more than 250 million euros in turnover compared to your forecasts. Let's finally talk about the method. You've increased spending massively in response to yellow vests. And you will soon resume using the tax weapon, namely the increase in corporate taxes, to close your month-ends: you are gradually drafting proposals that systematically consist of increasing business taxation. These two instruments, the increase in corporate taxes and the increase in spending to respond to crises, in panic, are the path to ease and lead to a dead end. They cannot be, Minister – and I think many here share this feeling – the hallmark of the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u18	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u19	This public finance policy debate is the first budgetary moment of Act II of the quinquennium. At the time of the presentation of the stability programme last April, the Government had updated the fiscal trajectory to take into account the changes in the macroeconomic context and the purchasing power measures decided in December. However, the exercise was frustrating, since, for reasons of timing, it could not take into account the measures announced by the President of the Republic following the major national debate last April. The time has therefore come for the Government to clarify how these measures fit into its public finance strategy. He did so thanks to the publication of a report, part of which has just been transmitted to us, but at a time such – two hours in the morning – that only Members leaving the nightclub were able to read about it. In the future, it may be necessary to anticipate this matter in order to effectively inform Parliament, in compliance with the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF. I recall that this report was due on 30 June, and that the LOLF also applies to the Government. In substance, I note that the results achieved over the past two years reinforce the Government's strategy, which is structured in three directions: to correct public accounts, to reduce compulsory levies and to reduce public expenditure. In 2018, the government deficit decreased by 0.3 percentage points of GDP, and the debt ratio stabilized. These results are better than those provided for in the Public Finance Programming Act. The ratio of compulsory levies decreased by 0.2 percentage points of GDP. The ratio of public expenditure decreased by 0.6 percentage points of GDP, at a rate consistent with that provided for in the Programming Act, and public expenditure fell by 0.3 per cent in volume. In short, in 2018, public spending was strictly controlled. These good results were achieved at the same time as a significant improvement in budgetary sincerity, management methods and compliance with parliamentary authorisation. The implementation of the guidelines of the Law on Public Finance Programming should therefore continue. First of all, it is necessary for France to recover the budgetary margins which would be sorely lacking in the event of a cyclical turnaround. It is essential, then, in order to respond to the tax exasperation of the French, which has manifested itself in various and varied forms in recent years. I would recall that in 2017, the rate of compulsory levies had reached a historic record of 45.2% of GDP. If the course is to be maintained, the financial trajectories of public finance programming laws are not rigid objects. Moreover, they do not have the normative force of the provisions of financial laws or social security financing laws. We can rejoice in that; We can also regret it sometimes. We should be able to adapt fiscal policy to macroeconomic and social developments. Between the end of 2018 and April 2019, new measures for the benefit of households were announced, mainly in the form of an acceleration and intensification of the reductions in compulsory levies. In total, these household and business levies are expected to decrease by 1.4 percentage points between 2017 and 2022, a decrease of 40 per cent higher than that foreseen by the Programming Act. The financial balances set out in the Government's report for the policy debate on public finances reflect these new developments. They remain consistent with the budgetary strategy set out in the Programming Act. In 2020, the government deficit would reach 2.1% of GDP, its lowest level since 2001. Public expenditure will continue to be held, and I note that the target of 52.1 % of GDP in 2022 has not been changed since the stability programme. However, compared to the programming law, the forecast of the government deficit in 2022 is degraded by a percentage point of GDP. This revision accounts for about 0.4 percentage points of GDP as a result of changes in the macroeconomic context over the period 2018-2022. The remainder of the gap is mainly due to measures in favour of the purchasing power of the French. A new programming of public finances is therefore justified in the coming months, and the Government will have to formalise the announcement and quickly clarify its contours, Minister. In any event, part of the Government's announcements will be included in the Finance Bill and the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020, which will also propose measures to finance them. I plead for savings on tax expenditures from the start of the Finance Bill for 2020. The report on the implementation of the tax measures that I will be presenting in a few days may contribute to this reflection. At the same time, the effort to control public expenditure must not be released, even if savings could be expected on the debt burden. I welcome the comments that have been made on ecological taxation, sponsorship or the research tax credit, but I hope that we will add a few more bricks. In this regard, maintaining low interest rates is a sign of investor confidence in France's signature. It makes it possible to create budgetary room for manoeuvre without effort: according to the last trajectory, in 2022 we would pay 11.9 billion euros less than what was envisaged in the law on public finance programming. However, this bounty has – and I persist on this point – anaesthetic side effects that must not distract us from the process of improving the efficiency of public policies. Protecting this trust capital means continuing to rebuild the public accounts. After the reversal of the upward trend of compulsory levies and the reduction of the public deficit, we must now resolutely embark on the path of debt reduction. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is necessary, I repeat, that our public finance strategy be further defined in detail in the context of a forthcoming revision of the law on public finance programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u20	Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u21	If I agree with many of the findings that have just been made, I will insist – and this will not surprise anyone – on the state of social finance in public finances. First of all, I would like to stress the still predominant importance of social finances in public finances. The figures published by INSEE last May, covering the 2018 financial year, recall that social security administrations account for €607.9 billion in expenditure and €618.7 billion in revenue, almost half of the general government's financial area. This fact, although known, deserves to be recalled, because it is essential to analyse the situation of our public finances, particularly in relation to other European countries, which provide a lower socialisation of social risks and often a lower level of social protection. This choice, in the noblest sense of the term, honours us, and I, for my part, remain strongly committed to it, because it is not only a factor in reducing inequalities, but also of efficiency in managing the risks covered. Some of the speakers who spoke before me welcomed the improvement of the public accounts, and they were right. My second observation is that the social field has largely taken its part in recovery, and especially for the last three years. Indeed, it is no coincidence that the social security administrations have a financing capacity of EUR 10.8 billion, which allows them to desist at a steady pace. In total, social debt, so unjustifiable to future generations, is decreasing and currently accounts for only 137.2 billion euros, out of nearly 2_322.3 billion public debt. I recall that we repay this social debt, entrusted to the Social Debt Depreciation Fund – CADES – more quickly than expected: we could have paid it in early 2024, when we are obliged to repay it before the end of 2025. We may, therefore, be able to question a possible review of the depreciation of this debt – but this is another debate. More specifically, with regard to the balances enshrined in the Social Security Financing Act, it is worth recalling that the general social security scheme was in a slight surplus of EUR 500 million in 2018, even though the situation of the Old Age Solidarity Fund – FSV – significantly mitigated this result. While revenues have been matched by a marked improvement in employment and wages, this situation is also due to an effort on expenditure, despite a strong spontaneous growth in social needs. Thus, we predicted an increase in ONDAM of 2.3%; This responsible but ambitious goal was achieved in 2017 and 2018, and an increase of ONDAM to 2.5% is on the way to being met by 2019. The effort that this represents on the ground should not be underestimated. Behind these somewhat abstract figures is a health system, including hospitals, which are involved in the national effort. My third point is that the new measures voted or announced since last winter could affect social accounts, which should inspire us to reflect on the whole. I am all the more in a position to know these consequences because I have had the honour of reporting the bill on economic and social emergency measures. The measures adopted at this stage have no impact on social accounts, since they are legally compensated by the State due to competition, in any case until the next law on the financing of social security. We're still waiting for arbitration. In my view, the choice of funding for these measures should not be considered in isolation, but in the light of two other equally new elements. On the one hand, since the review of the stability programme, the Government has adjusted its macroeconomic assumptions – realism, which I would like to welcome, because it reflects an unprecedented sense of responsibility in financial matters. Nevertheless, this deterioration of the underlyings may deprive social security of the surpluses on which the last financing law was built. On the other hand, large financial transfers from these theoretical surpluses of social security in favour of the State and the Social Debt Depreciation Fund – CADES – can also have consequences for social accounts. It seems to me that these three elements – potentially costly new measures for social security administrations, deteriorating economic conditions and large transfers of resources from social security to the State – must be appreciated together. Future financial texts will probably have to strike a new balance between, on the one hand, the necessarily shared concern for financial responsibility and, on the other, the preservation of a precious asset: the confidence of the French in the sustainability of the social model. My fourth and final comment is on the challenges and financial choices facing the social security administrations for the coming years. The budgetary years ahead of us cannot be those of a meltdown of the resources allocated to social protection. Let us not hide it, ladies and gentlemen, the French social system is going through a socio-demographic shock of an unprecedented magnitude because of the ageing of the population and all its consequences both for the health and retirement system and for the management of the loss of autonomy. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The enormous reorganization of the care system that we have just begun, the structural reform of our future pension system and the establishment of high-quality public dependency insurance, which the Government must propose to us by the end of the year, place two demands on us: to continue to be serious, again and again, of course, but also to show determination to give us the means to support these profound changes financially.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u22	There's not much applause!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u23	There's not a lot of people...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u24	In the socialists, too, there is not a big world!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u25	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u26	As Bruno Le Maire pointed out, the macroeconomic context remains marked by strong and unpredictable trade tensions between the United States and its partners, as well as by a Brexit with uncertain contours and timetables. Against this background, generally unfavorable to the confidence of economic actors, France is emerging from the game, with growth expected to be for the first time in more than a decade ahead of Germany – 1.4% in 2019 and for the next three years. In this context, the deficit for 2018 stands at 2.5 points of GDP, its lowest level since 2007. It is expected to exceed 3.1 points in 2019 due to the transformation of the CICE into a drop in charges, before returning to its decline until 2022. However, this situation is not entirely satisfactory. If the indicators are improving, they are at a much slower pace than our European partners. If it has left the excessive deficit procedure, France is now the only country in which debt, expressed as a percentage of GDP, has not started to fall. Do we have to worry about it? The question then arises that, as Gérald Darmanin recalled at the moment, on June 18th, France's 10-year borrowing rate became negative for the first time in its history. Some economists, first and foremost Olivier Blanchard, consider that, over a long period of time, while interest rates are lower than the rate of growth of the economy, a decline in the public debt ratio does not require government revenues to be higher than the level of primary expenditure. A temporary increase in expenditure does not, according to these theories, translate into a lasting increase in the public debt ratio and it may therefore be legitimate to be in debt to finance investments that increase the country's potential growth, provided of course that private investment is not pagocyd and that it is not in debt to finance operating expenses. This reasoning has the merit of inviting us to reflect on the need to fine-tune the distinction between operating and capital expenditure. But it does not take account of France's European commitments, which oblige us and condition France's credit and speech on the European scene. In this respect, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcomes the agreement reached by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on the euro area budget, as well as the vigour with which he regularly reminds our German partners that it is their responsibility to invest in support of European growth. On the other hand, negative interest rates should not exempt us from reducing inefficient spending. This is what the French strongly demanded in the great national debate, and it is the only way to reduce the tax burden on a sustainable basis. The Finance Bill for 2020 that we will be looking at this fall must therefore be an opportunity to create room for manoeuvre. The Government wished to reverse a number of tax and social expenditures that were either ineffective or unjust. The report on the orientation of public finances mentions three particular fields that have been recalled: anti-ecological niches, niches focused on very large enterprises, and niches that have a boon effect and reduce the social rights of employees. Thus, the reduced tax rate on non-road diesel could be phased out, bringing in 900 million euros. Secondly, as our colleagues Gilles Carrez and Joël Giraud propose, some of the tax advantages associated with the donations or sponsorship of major groups could be corrected without compromising, we will be careful, the vitality of French philanthropy. And then, thanks to the work of our general budget rapporteur, some of the shortcomings of the IRC could be corrected as well. Finally, the specific lump sum deduction could also be phased out. But even if it were to go back to some reductions in employer contributions, it would have been more ambitious to return, as advocated by the Economic Analysis Board – EAC – to the reductions in contributions on the highest wages, which have not yet proved their effectiveness in terms of the competitiveness of enterprises. I understood, however, that this option was not in the favour of the Minister of Economy and Finance. Other tax or social expenditures should be examined closely. The introduction of the single flat-rate levy could justify that certain exceptions or niches which do not produce the intended effects are called into question. This is the case with a number of favourable tax schemes in the area of savings, such as, and this is an example, the doubling of the regulated savings ceilings decided in the previous legislature and whose cost to public finances is estimated at at least EUR 1.5 billion. I remind you that in 2012, the ceiling for the deposits of Book A was increased from 15300 euros to 19125 euros. Since then, all reports have shown that the current level of ceilings exceeds that of precautionary savings and is above the financial savings capacity of modest or even middle-class households, and that it also exceeds the financing needs of social housing. This is one example of some of the issues that the reforms we have undertaken to improve the taxation of savings allow us to address today. We must not just preserve our revenues; We must act directly on expenditure. France Strategy has shown that, when compared with European countries, France is distinguished by the cost of general government, which is half a percentage point of GDP above the European average – i.e. EUR 10 billion – and by its expenditure to support the market economy, which is located a percentage point of GDP above the European average. We therefore count an additional cost of EUR 30 billion compared to our European partners. That was why the government's expenditure on housing or employment support had to be rethought and controlled through the aided contracts, whose assessments had revealed shortcomings and inefficiencies. It is also for these reasons that decisions have been announced in other areas, on which we will have to work this autumn in the context of the budgetary debate. The search for budget savings is not enough for itself. In the coming months, we will have to undertake the structural reforms necessary for the modernisation of our social system: reform of unemployment insurance, to empower labour market players and to encourage the resumption of activity, reform of pensions, for greater transparency and equity, fight against poverty with the creation of universal income through the approximation of social benefits, responses to the challenges of ageing and dependency, and finally support for families – a subject on which the members of the MODEM Group will make proposals this autumn. We will also have to discuss, as has been pointed out, the reform of local taxation, in particular the abolition of the housing tax; The expected revision of rental values of residential premises will take time and is not without concern – again, MODEM has opened up a reflection and will make proposals this fall. Finally, the review of the finance bill must be an opportunity to draw on the impact of the public policy evaluation work conducted by this House and to develop new tools to refine and inform our decisions. First of all, the substantive work carried out during the spring of the evaluation, which has just concluded with the vote on the settlement law, will hopefully inspire the Government in preparing the budget for the summer before its fall debate in Parliament. We must also, at the time of the budget discussion, inform our decisions a little more precisely. This year, and this is good news, one of the main measures of the budget will be the reduction of the income tax of 5 billion euros desired by the President of the Republic at the end of the major national debate: 17 million households will see their income tax cut as of January 2020; 12 million households in the first tranche of the income tax scale are expected to benefit fully from the reform with an average gain of €350 per household, and 5 million households in the second tranche, at 30%, will benefit from a reduction of €180. To discuss this income tax reform, we will have for the first time a tool developed by the Finance Committee and the Interministerial Directorate for Digital and State Information and Communication Systems. This software, called LexImpact, will allow each Member of Parliament to measure on-line the effects of its amendment on public finances and income distribution. In other words, the possible effects of the income tax amendments that will be discussed this fall can be measured not only on typical cases – effect on a couple of pensioners, effect on a single woman with children, etc. – but also on public finances and income distribution. We need to go further in these assessments that precede our decisions and take climate emergencies into account in our budgetary choices. At the initiative of our colleague Bénédicte Peyrol, it was decided on the occasion of the 2019 budget to consolidate all the funding and revenues contributing to the environmental objectives into a single document, clearer and more legible. To this end, a new budget document will be presented as soon as the Finance Bill for 2020. It will be very valuable to us and will encourage us collectively to make virtuous decisions about the environment. We also welcome the success of the equivalent green treasury obligation – Green OAT – which, after a number of issues in the first half of 2019, stands at EUR 19 billion and is expected to finance an equivalent amount of green spending. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is what is in front of us, ladies and gentlemen. Since we are discussing the direction of our public finances, we hope that all the lessons will be drawn from the evaluation work we have done this spring, so that the debates this fall will be as fruitful as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u27	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u28	The first sentence of the report to Parliament by the rapporteur-general on the policy debate on public finances sets the tone, ladies and gentlemen. It is a question, and I quote, of making it "the first budgetary moment of Act II of the quinquennium". Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, if you need an act II, it is because you finally recognise that the economic, social, budgetary and fiscal policy included in your first two drafts of finance laws – that of Act I – was anti-buying power for all French people, except for the most affluent 1%. Beyond this preliminary observation, allow me to make a few observations. The first concerns the contract-making that you have tried to impose on local authorities. It is interesting to note that public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – EPCI – which have not contracted out are those which have the best control of their operating expenses. The same applies to the Occitanie region, which has refused to contract and is well below the threshold you have set, even though it has 50,000 new inhabitants each year. This illustrates the responsibility of local authorities who do not need to be put under pressure or government control. This debate also illustrates your difficulty in solving the budgetary equation. You are enjoying a good star, Mr Minister, since the fall in interest rates will give you, if the projections are reliable, a march of manoeuvre of the order of 1 to 3 billion euros. On the other hand, the equation is made more complex by the decline in economic growth. I repeat: when you took up your duties, you were able to take advantage of economic growth of 2.2%. This allowed you to earn the equivalent of €3 billion in additional revenue, without doing anything. Remember, minister: in September 2017, we told you that your first finance bill had to meet two objectives, support economic recovery and reduce inequality. You didn't want to take them back to your account. With regard to the second objective, the movement of the yellow vests has remembered your memory. As regards the first, it is now that everything is being done: France is now paying for the slowdown in its economic growth, which will of course weigh tax revenues and on the rate of job creation, which is slowing down. Thirdly, in this budgetary debate, you do not set priorities for public expenditure. You know my commitment to the fight against drug shortages, a subject that I have been asking the Minister of Health since 2017. A recent poll indicates that one in four Frenchmen has already suffered this problem – a huge figure. The financial data presented by LEEM – Drug Companies – on this issue are illuminating. They show that the countries with a thriving economy are those to which pharmaceutical laboratories are turning. Faced with this trend, which you do not even mention, you do not act. The plan you announced a few days ago does not contain anything specific to stem this shortage which, I said, affects many French people. My question is therefore very clear, minister: in the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020, will you adjust the tariff policy to address this drug shortage problem? What requirements will you formulate? With regard to the university, the National Committee for Scientific Research, which met last week, called for a €6 billion investment plan to address investment, which is far too low in public research. As such, the indicator in the budget documents is illuminating: since 2012 – and this is confirmed in 2017 – the share of French operators' publications in European scientific production has been falling steadily. You'll tell me that you're already putting 800 million euros on the table. Of course. But since 2013, the number of students is increasing by 80000 per year, and this amount is already absorbed! Mr Minister, your colleague Bruno Le Maire talks to us all day long about competitiveness. But this one shouldn't be lowcost. The only long-term competitiveness is that of intelligence and creation. This is the bet made forty years ago by politicians, and thanks to which, for example, Airbus – the first positive contributor to our trade balance – was born. As for the energy transition, you don't say much either. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Minister, your contribution to this public finance policy debate does not allow us to know how you will close the fiscal equation in 2020, or how you intend to meet the expectations of the French with regard to safety, research or the shortage of medicines – to name but those priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u29	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u30	It is up to me to supplement the IDU and independent finance commissioners: I have left the commission of inquiry on large distribution and purchasing centres out of respect for you, Mr Minister, but also to bring the floor of our group in this debate on the direction of public finances. The implementation for 2018 was less successful than what was provided for in the Public Finance Programming Act 2018-2022. First of all, the level of the government deficit reached only 2.5% of GDP, an improvement largely due to the fulfilment of the expenditure target by the 322 local authorities which contracted with the State, which allows me to underline the success of this scheme. However, the structural deficit target has not been met: it is 2.3% of GDP, instead of 2.1% planned. Therefore, in its opinion on the settlement law for 2018, the High Council for Public Finance established that the spending effort had been almost non-existent for the years 2017 and 2018. Debt stabilized in 2018 at 98.4% of GDP but continued its irremediable rise in value to reach the astronomical sum of 2_315.3 billion euros, while almost all of our European neighbours have been reducing theirs for several years already. It can therefore be said without too much hesitation that the state's financial situation continued to deteriorate in 2018. So we still have a lot to do. On many points, notably due to emergency measures, 2019 is therefore a pivotal year; the year 2020 will probably follow the same logic since it will be the implementation of government announcements following the major national debate. It can therefore be understood that the original forecasts have been modified. However, they must encourage us to remain very careful and, of course, to amplify our action. In 2019 and 2020, growth would remain robust at 1.4% – a forecast identical to that transmitted to the European Commission when the stability programme was presented at the end of April. This is better than the average growth in the euro area, at 1.2%, but worse than the growth level in 2018, which was 1.7%. In this context, it is difficult to count on growth to absorb the government deficit and debt. To redress public finances by the end of the quinquennium, there are therefore two options: either an increase in revenue or an increase in savings on expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u32	The first, which amounts to an increase in levies, is obviously to be excluded. The already high rate of compulsory levies is expected to fall by 1.2 percentage points in 2019, in particular as a result of measures that strengthen the attractiveness of the French economy, but also of measures that have been taken in favour of purchasing power as a result of the yellow vest protest movement. The purchasing power of households must be supported, but corporate tax relief, which is essential for attractiveness, employment and investment in our country, should not be stopped. Our group, I would point out, is committed to continuing the reduction in corporate tax, to reach a rate of 25% by 2022, in order to converge towards the European average. The real challenge before us is to find a way to effectively reduce spending to lower the deficit level, while having less revenue. This, let us agree, is a corneal dilemma. For example, there is still uncertainty about the financing of the measures resulting from the major debate on the reduction of income tax and the reindexing of small retirement pensions to inflation – expenditure that would amount to about €6.5 billion. The judges of the Court of Auditors are concerned, in the report on the state and outlook for public finances for 2019, about the budgetary cost of these announcements and their potentially insufficient compensation, which would lead to a drift in the public deficit by the end of the quinquennium. Our group was surprised to note that the preparatory report for the public finance policy debate for 2020 does not further specify the savings to compensate for the measures resulting from the major debate. Indeed, it states that these savings will be realized by reducing the anti-ecological niches and those that focus on very large companies. Yet the Court of Auditors remains, if not very sceptical, at least reserved, recalling that the impact of the removals of tax niches over the last three years "does not, in the long run, reach EUR 250 million". If the Government's public finance strategy is based on an effort to spend, then you will have to put forward concrete guidelines, Mr. Minister. Otherwise, I fear that this exercise cannot be described as sincere. This sincerity, which you have displayed since 2017 and which we welcome, must now be verified through a real reduction in spending. Otherwise, bad spirits may begin to believe that the Government will finance these measures through deficit and debt. This view is not so far from being shared when we see that the forecast of the public deficit is degraded for the period 2020-2022 compared to the trajectory set out in the Public Finance Programming Act 2018-2022. Thus, the government deficit targets for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022 degrade by 0.1 percentage points of GDP, to 2.1 per cent, 1.7 per cent and 1.3 per cent of GDP, respectively. This still represents a drift of more than EUR 2 billion each year, i.e. between 7 and 8 billion in three years. Similarly, if a comparison is made with the previous stability programme of April 2018, the decline in ambition is even more marked, since at the time the Government planned to restore the balance of public accounts and even to generate a slight surplus of 0.3% of GDP in 2022. This is no longer the case today, because the measures announced after the yellow vest crisis and the big debate weigh on public finances, and there is an urgent need to finance them. It is again the structural deficit that is most worrying. As savings on expenditure have been used to finance measures in favour of purchasing power, the level of the structural deficit will not change until 2020, at 2.2% of GDP, reflecting an evolution of just 0.2 percentage points of GDP since 2017. Thus the bulk of the effort is postponed to the years 2021 and 2022 – the end of the quinquennium – with a reduction of 0.3 percentage points of GDP in the structural deficit in each of these two years. Let us, Mr.Minister, doubt the reality of this constantly delayed effort – in any case, it would decide with the slowdown in the savings that are usually observed at the end of the quinquennium. Public debt will fall slower than expected in the GDP ratio and is expected to stabilize at a level dangerously close to 100% of GDP. This is primarily due to lower growth but also to an increase in debt that remains high. Moreover, it is quite possible, in view of the rate of debt development, that by the end of the quinquennium it will exceed this symbolic level of 100% of GDP. Thus, according to INSEE, at the end of the first quarter of 2019, the Maastricht debt stood at €2_358.9 billion, up 43.6 billion from the previous quarter. At this rate, it seems unlikely that we will significantly reduce our debt by 2022. This once again calls for a real effort to achieve savings: we risk continuing to fuel the infernal spiral created more than thirty years ago, the debt of today being the tax that future generations will pay. The Government's strategy, therefore, seems to be essentially to postpone the effort to recover public finances to the last two years, 2021 and 2022, without specifying the measures to achieve the savings targets. Given its high levels of debt and deficit, there is little room for manoeuvre in our country to cope with a cyclical slowdown or financial shock. Therefore, the continuation of the downward trend in compulsory levies must be accompanied by an effort to control public expenditure in order to allow France to retain full control over its budgetary choices. The Court of Auditors confirms this in its report on the state and outlook of public finances for 2019. The IDU and independent group wishes you, Minister, an ambitious path for 2020 and the rest of the quinquennium, a path that will enable our country to break out of its chronic and deadly deficit. We will accompany you, if you agree to take this difficult path: on our scale, we will make proposals, on what we see as the central point of the finance bill and the social security financing bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u33	We will also propose to step up the fight against tax optimisation of the very large groups. Yesterday morning, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and I took part in a very interesting hearing on corporate tax in France, which opened up avenues for this, for example the introduction of a minimum tax rate, as the United States did.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u34	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u35	At the end of the school year, if we were to annotate the budget, here is what I would write: "A middle student, in progress, but be careful about the risks of relapse. You can see it, we return the copy, unlike others who had the temptation to keep it. If the student France has made an effort, he will also have to prove himself on the exam. It is true that everyone can see a good note in the school book: that of the public deficit, which stood at just under 60 billion euros in 2018, i.e. 2.5 points of GDP, after 2.8 points in 2017. This figure is lower than the 2018 programming law: I give you notice of this good news – student Thierry Benoit soon learned his copy about public finances. However, this note should be looked at all the more as we are subject to European rules, as the previous speakers have pointed out: I am naturally thinking of the path of the structural deficit; On this point, however, we have failed to comply with the commitments we have made and which we have to make before the European Union. We had to reduce it by 0.5 percentage points, i.e. by some 12 billion a year. In fact, the account is not there, as it decreased by only 0.1 points in 2018. In your forecasts for 2019, this structural balance would rise to 2.1%, again a reduction of 0.1 percentage points of GDP, where the programming law provided for 0.3 percentage points. However, the European rules are clear: they allow a deviation from structural adjustment of only 0.5 percentage points of GDP over a year or two years. With an adjustment of only 0.1 percentage points of GDP in 2018, France is meeting its European commitments, but it will have consumed in this year alone the full flexibility margin provided by the texts. As you know: in 2019, France will not comply with its European commitments. At this rate, how many years will be needed to achieve budgetary balance? On the other hand, the decline in tax revenues increases the government's deficit. As regards the tax revenue component, the Court of Auditors confirms a decrease of 13.5 billion, following the decisions taken in the Finance Act for 2018. I am thinking of the transformation of the ISF into an IFI and the single flat-rate levy. These provisions are a political choice that you assume. However, the major problem is that, at the same time, you do not reduce public spending sufficiently. As a result, the government deficit continues to grow. It reached €76 billion in 2018, or 3% of GDP. This is 8.3 billion euros more than in 2017, which is where it hurts. The deficit is 12% higher than it was the previous year. Of course, objectively, it's better than you planned, but it's still worse than the previous execution. This result is also consistent with the path presented in the stability programme, which does not foresee any particular effort on the part of the State. In order to compensate for the increase in the deficit, you are putting the effort on the accounts of the social security administrations and on the local authorities. You have welcomed, from the top of the gallery, the contracting by many communities: as Valérie Rabault pointed out, even those who have not contracted have shown that they can be exemplary. Let us therefore stop this speech which is too widespread on these benches, according to which local and regional authorities are bad managers. They have been able to keep their accounts and have even recorded a surplus of 0.6 percentage points of GDP, which has been unknown for more than 70 years. Let's recognize him together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u36	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u37	Our public finances, on the other hand, are worse off than those of other euro area countries. The level of a student, should I remind him?, must be compared to that of his comrades. Unfortunately, the observations confirm the initial assessment. In 2018, France's government deficit – 2.5 points of GDP – remains among the highest in the European Union: only Cyprus and Romania – 4.8 points and 3 points of GDP respectively – are higher than ours. Moreover, according to the European Commission's estimates, the cumulative structural effort over the period 2011-2018 in the euro area amounted to 4 points of GDP, compared with 3.5 points for France. We are therefore lagging behind our European partners and competitors. The balance sheet is therefore mixed, although we welcome the increase in revenue received in 2018, which is 8.8 billion euros higher than the forecast of the finance law. The uncertainties over the years 2020-2022 are numerous; I'll pick up a few of them. The trajectory of the April 2019 stability programme takes into account the emergency measures announced at the end of 2018. On the other hand, the measures announced following the major national debate have not been integrated. I have heard what the rapporteur-general has said: he calls for multiannual programming to be adjusted as soon as possible in the light of the announcements made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u38	Indeed, it was very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u39	That's the least I can do. As you are committed to the sincerity of the budget – we acknowledge this – I imagine that you will be keen to organise this debate. For example, pension indexation for more than half of pensioners increases spending by $1.5 billion, while at the same time revenues would decrease by $5 billion, due to the announced decline in income tax. I say this clearly: Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group welcome these measures which give purchasing power to the French. But we still have to finance them! However, the Government remained unclear on the subject. This is why the Court of Auditors has issued a mixed opinion on these measures, which could degrade the forecast of the general government deficit for 2020 by between 0.1 and 0.3 percentage points of GDP, depending on their level of compensation. You will ask us for our proposals, since Charles de Courson, every year, presents them – he is not here today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u40	Contrary to his habit, indeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u41	But I am also speaking on his behalf, since the old companions we are used to working together on the finance bill. We can hardly be blamed for not making proposals to cut public spending. First of all, I want to refer to a review of all the tax niches, which come to lower income taxes and obliterate their progressivity: we have made proposals to reduce the weight of some of these niches – and not all of them, because everyone knows that this would be impossible: some of them must be sanctified, and we have a common discourse on this. In the context of the budget debate, we will continue to make proposals to that effect. Finally, we need to step up the means we devote to the fight against fraud – I know that it is in your intentions, Mr Minister, in particular with regard to "carousel" VAT fraud, which would make it possible to glean a few billion essentials for budgetary balance. Let's continue reading the notebook. The Government seems to be reducing its efforts to control public finances, like a student who is discouraging. Indeed, in the stability programme presented in April 2019, you expect a reduction in the government deficit of 1.3 percentage points of GDP between 2018 and 2022, while the initial ambition, presented a year ago, was a reduction of 2.5 percentage points. It's a split by two! With regard to the structural balance, the same is true: your effort is shrinking, as the structural deficit increases from 2.1 points of GDP in 2018 to 1.3 points in 2022. It would thus be reduced by only 0.8 percentage points of GDP, instead of the 1.3 percentage point provided for in the programming law. The initial objectives will therefore not be achieved. How can I explain it? You are reducing the compulsory levy by 21 billion euros, with the abandonment of the increases in energy taxation, for 11.7 billion, with the defiance of overtime, very good measure, for 1.7 billion, with the abolition of the housing tax for all the main residences – this is your political choice, it was not ours – with, finally, the cancellation of the increase of CSG for the modest pensioners. It is true that you have a good star, as Valérie Rabault noted: interest rates are very low or even negative for ten-year loans, which has the effect of reducing the interest burden on the debt and limiting the rise in public debt. Let us beware, however: will this situation last? Some talk about speculation, about the bursting of a future financial bubble. History shows us that these rates can rise sharply. Inversions can be formidable. That is why the student France will inevitably receive a warning from the High Council of Public Finance for failing to respect the trajectories that you yourself have designed. I concede to you that the context is made difficult by the decline in European and global growth – even if France draws its pin from the game. I listened carefully, minister, and Bruno Le Maire: it is a pity that he is no longer here. He said, which surprised me somewhat, that Germany's surpluses should be put at the service of growth. I wish he'd told us how he intended to do it! While the reform of dependency and the reform of pensions are ahead of us – will pension reform be parametric or systemic? – while the issue of ageing is acute, while there is also a recast of local taxation, we will see if your announcements about purchasing power will be verified. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Be aware that our group will be at the rendezvous of the finance bill in a constructive and responsible spirit, with a view, in particular, to supporting our most troubled citizens and to supporting economic activity, in particular businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u42	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u43	Reading this report gives us the impression that the Government never bears responsibility for what is wrong. When a 0.6-point decline in growth is reported in 2018 compared to 2017, it is attributed only to a "less favourable external environment". On the other hand, when it comes to cumulating the number of job creations, the same government claims without problem the results of half the year 2017 during which it was not in business. We would almost be tempted to believe that there is no link between the current situation and the policies pursued, in reality similar, here or elsewhere in Europe. Unfortunately, declining growth is a direct sign of impoverishment. We consume less, but it is not because we would have acquired the means to consume better, not because we would have turned our backs on a consumerist policy or that of programmed obsolescence. On the contrary, many people are no longer able to provide for themselves properly in our country, which is, I recall, the sixth largest economic power in the world. How else would it be, when the Government gargles itself with the "unprecedented" decline in public spending, to the obvious detriment of the interests of the greatest number of people? You are pleased that business investment remained very dynamic in 2018. This time, since you like the number, you do not hesitate to give yourself the merits, recalling your corporate tax cuts. However, I wonder: what pride is there in giving over 12 billion gifts a year to businesses – on the back of the population, since these are fewer revenues, without any guarantee that society will benefit from the investments that result? Can you tell us what proportion of these investments will result in job creation? Can you tell us how much of this investment will have a positive ecological impact? Can you tell us whether these investments will be of practical benefit to the general public? Let me doubt this and remind you of the example of Business France's annual report, which referred to an increase in foreign investment decisions in France. Mr Bruno Le Maire had once again congratulated himself. However, it was enough to look at this report to understand what these figures were masking. There was an increase of 2 per cent: in fact, these were only 26 additional investment decisions in the country compared to the previous year. However, jobs created or maintained as a result of these investment decisions are down 9%: 1000 less jobs created by foreign investment compared to 2017. There is therefore no correlation between the increase in foreign investment and the increase in job creation, on the contrary. And some figures are huge: in the productive sector, the reduction in jobs created or maintained amounts to 30%. This case illustrates perfectly how you present this type of investment data. Similarly, you're getting used to the number of job creations, but 87% of them are for fixed-term contracts – CSD – one third of them for a single day. In addition, the reform of unemployment insurance provides for limiting access to benefits for these same precarious workers and in CSDs: the loop is closed, and the same people are still paying. Moreover, a few days earlier, the President of the Court of Auditors himself pointed out that the 1.5 billion euros of savings supposed to finance certain "yellow vest measures" had still not been specified or followed by texts, which casts doubt on the budgetary sincerity of the Government. Worse still, to respond to the criticism, the latter promises "efforts", between quotes, consisting in reality of imposing even more austerity on the most modest: the recipients of personalized housing assistance – APL –, the holders of assisted contracts or the unemployed. Meanwhile, the record drop in compulsory levies in 2018 – 16.5 billion euros less – has almost benefited the richest, whether it is the abolition of the ISF, the single flat-rate levy or the increase in the IEC. This last device, in passing, is money thrown out the window because, as all studies show, it does not create jobs. On the contrary: 50 million euros were donated in five years to Conforama, a company that announced 2000 job cuts. What was that money for? I asked myself this morning, when I learned that employees and union representatives had interrupted the meeting of the works council. On the other hand, the amount of non-progressive taxes, the most unfair ones, has increased: in total, VAT has increased by 0.9 billion through various measures, particularly in the housing and construction sector. So what the Government is so proud of at the time of the stocktaking is its eternal role as Robin des Bois inverted, which takes the poor to give to the rich, and would also like to be applauded for it. In addition to the austerity it imposes on the poorest, it also imposes on communities. If inflation and population growth are taken into account, it can be estimated that they have experienced an average reduction in public spending of almost 2 percentage points. This austerity is imposed on them by contracting with the state, but would in any case be inevitable, given the decline in their endowments and the threats to their tax revenues. The Government assumes this policy and even claims that the communes that refused to contract "have been notified by prefectural decree of their objective of maximum evolution. This means that the 29% of municipalities that have not signed the contract are simply being imposed a path of evolution of their operating expenses, with premium penalties!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u44	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u45	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u46	The fate of others is hardly more enviable. With the removal of the housing tax, the municipalities are being removed from a large tax lever, which accounted for 38% of their revenues. Of course, we are told that this loss will be offset in the short term to the euro, but many municipalities remain uncertain. However, the powers of local and regional authorities and the public service tasks they assume are becoming increasingly important as a result of the disengagement of the State. All this is neither tenable nor acceptable. The Government remains in a purely accounting, monetarist logic, at the expense of the general interest. He ignores, in his calculations, the needs of the population, his thirst for tax justice, and especially the importance of the ecological challenge. However, it is these challenges, not the arbitrary rules of the liberal economy, that should dictate the Government's budgetary priorities, especially since, even from the admission of liberal economists, the time is ideal for borrowing and investing. Indeed, for the first time in its history, the rate at which France borrows on financial markets has become negative. At the beginning of the month, on Monday 1 July, a new record was even beaten, with rates at -0.54%! I note, moreover, that the 10 billion granted to popular consumption under the pressure of yellow vests – even though we have contested the method – have been almost painless because of the low interest rates. When we discussed the original finance bill, when we refused to reduce the LPA or demanded more money for housing, we were told that aligning the billions would lead to derailing the French economy and derailing deficits. But not only was the 10 billion spent without any problems, but France experienced a higher growth than other European countries! It is therefore all the more essential and necessary to invest as the time is ideal to do so without generating a long-term deficit. It is therefore no longer time to race for budget cuts or to bring figures into small boxes without taking into account the consequences of these choices on people's lives and on the planet. As we have often said, the only debt that should not be left to future generations is ecological debt. It's an emergency time, and you know it. France has proposed it in its programme and has recalled it in its counter-budgets: France should now finance by borrowing a large investment plan of 100 billion to implement the ecological transition and boost employment. We cannot miss this historic opportunity, at such a crucial moment in our history. It is today, and not tomorrow, that everything is being played out, and it is your duty to stand up to these challenges, rather than to continue to follow, with your eyes closed, your doctrine above ground and dead: that of the small steps for the general interest and the great strides for the profits of some.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u47	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u48	In just over two months' time, the review of the 2020 budget will begin, a highlight of the parliamentary debate and the democratic life of our country. This is a great time, because it is at this time that we will collectively decide how to meet the needs of our fellow citizens, how to dedicate resources to public policies, but also how to finance them, with what tax and how to allocate the effort. What are our public priorities? To enable all our fellow citizens to live in dignity, their wages, their salaries, their pensions; to offer as much dignity to those who do not have a job or have suffered a life accident; to protect the health of all French people. It is to ensure that economic, social, human value is created and precisely distributed. It is action to ensure that new rights are promoted, social and democratic rights. It is to ensure that, wherever he resides, whether rural, urban or peri-urban, a citizen has the same rights. It also means giving tax its rightful place in our country. A former relative of Roosevelt indicated that tax was the price to be paid to live in a civilized society. Eighty-five years later, these words are still relevant. Our public priorities are finally and above all to be aware of the state of the world in which we live today: inequalities that reach unbearable levels; trade and financial exchanges are ever more rapid, in a planet that is overheating. Ladies and gentlemen, the lights are red: red alert on biodiversity, red alert on greenhouse gas emissions. Climate events, once exceptions, are now the norm. The drought event, which once again strikes many territories such as Allier this year, clearly shows the extent of the dangers we face. That is the course we Communist parliamentarians wish to take. In this regard, the budget is fundamental, since it is at the time of its discussion that we make proposals to meet all these needs. But it is also there that you are very much implementing your orientations at the service of a project of society that is certainly liberal, anchored in the international competition of "all against all", sprinkled with a policy of assistance of the richest and unconditional, and just as irrational, support to the merchant sector and to the major groups: it is the policy of supply, which Bruno Le Maire reaffirmed just now. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the direction of public finances seems to be a matter of self-satisfaction. You're getting used to seeing improvements in our country's economic indicators, but at what cost to our fellow citizens? You are pleased to control public spending. Of course, the proper use of public money from taxes is, in our view, a democratic imperative, some of which unfortunately go away. But, for you, any public expenditure is a priori suspicious, and controlling public spending means "squeezing the kiki" of any ambitious and proactive public policy, even if it involves sometimes very brutal budget cuts. Thus, the public deficit goes from 2.8% to 2.5%, but at what cost for our territories? At what price for those who are at least five euros a month, who will have seen their APL decrease and who could soon experience a further decline? At what cost to all these associations, which are still fragile, who will have seen their aided contracts abolished? At what cost to all those public servants who are once again seeing their standard of living erode because of the freezing of the index point? At what cost to all these users who are moved away from the public service, because the post office or the treasury is closed or opens only at particularly restricted times? At what price for forgotten and marginalized rural territories? At what price for our farmers abandoned to international treaties? You're getting used to improving the public deficit, but at what cost to our justice system and our already-engorged courts? You are happy to see the envelope of health insurance expenses respected for the ninth consecutive year, but at what price for the health of our fellow citizens? At what cost for emergency reception and our hospitals? I am thinking here of these 154 emergency services mobilized throughout our country. You are also pleased to lower the level of compulsory levies, but for whom and for what? In 2018, your choices led to a tax cut of 11 billion euros for the most affluent and for the trading sector. For the most modest and middle classes, the reduction of €3 billion in housing tax is palpable in the face of increases in VAT – 4.3 billion more –, fuel taxes – 2.6 billion – and the CSG. It took weeks and weeks of mobilization to make some corrections, especially on the CSG, but, basically, without any real paradigm change. The challenges of exceptional bonuses and overtime were well in line with your political orientations. These measures had been implemented more than ten years ago by the Sarkozyst right. Despite the undemonstrated impact on investment and employment, as invisible, the removal of the ISF and the implementation of the 2018 single rate taxation of financial income will have been maintained for 2019, and you are not planning to adjust the shot in 2020. But the bill is heavy: it is more than EUR 15 billion of taxes, over three years, which the easier ones no longer have to pay. They were, however, frankly not on straw, as the figures recently published by Challenge magazine have shown once again. Similarly, the CICE is an equally massive waste of public money, a source of gabegie. While he didn't show his effectiveness, did you remove it? No. Worse, you even doubled the amount in 2019: 40 billion euros allocated without consideration, without conditions, without targeting. So here is a brief overview of how public finances are managed in our country: they are privatized and put at the service of the Liberal project that I mentioned earlier. The figures show that it is not public spending, but these huge tax gifts that are responsible for the public debt. They also show that our country has the means of another policy. The fiscal scoping for 2020 and fiscal measures are not yet fully known. We already know that an income tax reduction of EUR 5 billion is planned. Finally, to reduce taxation on the middle classes: we are in favour of it. But you seem to stay in the middle of the ford. You lower the rates of the first instalments without increasing those targeting high incomes or increasing tax escalation. Therefore, it is highly likely that your measure will also benefit taxpayers with high income levels. Action on VAT and CSG would be more effective. Who will pay the bill? Put the big bag on, Minister, because the planing on the tax niches will save only 1 billion euros. There is therefore still 4 billion euros to be found. Are you planning 4 billion savings? If that were the case, half of French people who do not pay income tax – very often modest people – would finance the tax cut that will benefit the middle classes. We will not accept this umpteenth round of tax pass. You have already revealed some of your cards about the fate that will be reserved for social spending for 2020: after deindexing pensions and family allowances in 2019, you amplify your company to plan social benefits to the detriment of the requirements of solidarity. First target: the unemployed. According to the latest estimates, 1.2 million of them will experience a reduction in their benefits as a result of the reform of unemployment insurance. The second target is social security. Despite an unprecedented social movement, the next financing bill envisages €4 billion in savings on health insurance and hospitals. Third target: pensions. If we know that your obsession is to attack the rights of pensioners, the question now is when this will happen. We learn that the contribution period could be increased by 2020. Can you confirm this direction, Minister? The next budget should also include important provisions on local taxation. We will pay close attention to ensuring that the autonomy of communities is guaranteed and we will ensure that our citizens do not lose it again at a change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u49	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u50	Reviewed last week, the Budget Settlement Bill, which sets the final amount of revenue and expenditures for 2018, highlighted the many renunciations of this majority in the face of the challenge of controlling public spending. Minister, this is the moment of truth: it is time for you to accept your responsibility for the state of our public finances, because the figures do not lie. This regulation allowed us to assess for the first time the reality of a budget that is entirely and totally attributable to you. But the result is not up to your announcements or your communication efforts, since you have simply given up restoring the balance of our public accounts. I gladly concede that the government deficit is kept below 3%, according to INSEE, at EUR 59.6 billion in 2018. But it is because you have benefited – and this is so much better – from an unexpected level of growth. In fact, France is one of the worst pupils in the euro area in this field: the other countries in the area have an average deficit of 0.8% of GDP, which is three times lower. In general, in 2018, our situation remains worse than that of most of our European partners, especially as we already know that the deficit will increase mechanically in 2019 – a first in ten years! – to return above the 3% threshold. This is the result of the state deficit, which is alarmingly high and is deteriorating for the first time in three years while it was almost stable between 2014 and 2017: in 2018, the state's revenue will have covered only nine months of expenditure. According to the Court of Auditors' report, what awaits us for 2019 and beyond is little more encouraging. The Court warns you of several worrying developments: structural adjustment would be limited to 0.1 points in 2019 as in 2018, below European rules, and the structural deficit – still above 2 points of GDP in 2019 – would remain far away from the medium-term objective. As for the amount of public debt reported as GDP, it would increase again this year. Again, such a development is down from that experienced by the majority of our European partners: for example, German debt continues to decline, barely exceeding 60 points of GDP in 2018. While this development is partly due to the temporary impact of the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in social contributions, it unfortunately only reflects the slow progress made by France in reducing its structural deficit. Mr Minister, in order for France to fulfil its European commitments, so that the forecast of the stability programme is respected, a significant improvement in the trajectory of public finances for the years to come is urgent and unavoidable. The only objective you need to set yourself is to reduce public spending: control the wage bill of public administrations, control operating expenditure, and give priority to structural measures! However, to my great regret, I can only note that you have not foreseen any improvement of this order. I would like to point out the trajectory transmitted to Brussels, which indicates that the government deficit will remain the same between 2018 and 2022, ranging from 3 to 3.1%. However, the Government had made a commitment in the Public Finance Programming Act to ensure that the additional revenue generated by growth went towards reducing the public deficit. Another unfulfilled promise! So there is much to bet that once again, Minister, you will not be able to deliver on your commitments. It's quite simple, until 2022, you'll never stop going back – and with you, France. You are abandoning 45% of your deficit reduction target over the five-year period. The objective of returning to balance by 2022 has also been abandoned. The reduction in the burden of public expenditure is reduced. Finally, the government debt reduction target of 5 percentage points of GDP has been wiped out, rising to 1.6 percentage points. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, I regret to inform you that, for the third year in a row, your good promises of the beginning of the quinquennium will not be on the table. Renunciations continue to accumulate and you do not even make the effort to make us believe that the reduction of public spending will be at the end of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u51	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u52	We are approaching this debate on public finances after a year in which the somewhat agitated national, European and international context cannot be ignored. This context should guide us in the way we approach and present this budget. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] France has experienced a major crisis whose heart, I believe, is not both social and democratic. We have failed to resolve the crisis of confidence in political representation. The President himself stated on 14 November that "he had failed to reconcile the French people with their leaders".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u53	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u54	The divisions between the right and the left were overcome following the 2017 elections. I think that this phenomenon is not limited to France; All over the world, the old political divisions disappear and give way to new separations. In our country, France of the "yes" of 2005 opposes that of the "no", France of the cities to rural France, France of the middle and popular classes to that of the most affluent – in plain terms, the winners of globalization versus the losers of it. But I could pick up a lot more cleavages. These new divisions, we must not neglect them. On the contrary, our duty as a political leader is to appease them, and the budget must be one of the means. This budget for 2020 is also part of a renewed European context, with a new parliament where extremes still occupy a significant place, where environmental parties have achieved two-point scores in many European states, where Brexit is still under negotiation, where growth stagnates, where the ageing of the population is a common challenge for many countries and where competition between Member States, whether in fiscal or social matters, remains the rule, not the exception. Finally, this budget is part of a worrying international context: multilateralism is being called into question, international trade is going through difficult times, the nuclear threat is re-emerging, and many challenges remain, such as the ecological crisis. Building a budget without taking this into account would be a misguided move. It would make France an island in the middle of the world. It would be to please the French without seeing the constraints of an open world. The budget is therefore not a flat, mechanical and devoid of political meaning. On the contrary: in the face of companies that dominate the world and the minds, it remains, for states whose role tends to weaken, the most powerful tool available to them. In the next few minutes, I would like to raise two issues that require strong political choices: debt sustainability and the sustainability of the budget. What will be the nature of the next debt crisis? Will it be that of public debts at all, or that of public debts that only partially finance investments that prepare the future to deal with climate and demographic issues? The financial and economic crisis is inevitable, even if the date on which it will occur is uncertain. What will be the cause of this: a real estate or digital bubble comparable to those we have already known, or an awareness of investors that they hold rotten or fallen assets, that is, to finance activities that neglect sustainable development? I am convinced that the future economic and financial crises will come from environmental and social awareness. Will their impact be the same on all public debts? Will States that have issued similar Treasury bonds – OAT – "green" or "sustainable" be more protected? Will the effect on interest rates be differentiated? As Special Rapporteur on the State's financial commitments, having chosen green ATOs as a theme for work during the Spring Evaluation, I believe that they will be truly protective only when they are characterized by genuine additionality. Today, we are only identifying environmentally friendly spending. Finally, debt does not have the same meaning if it is used to invest. In 2019, the investment share foreseen in the state budget is, according to the current classification, 13.9 billion euros, i.e. only 3.8% of total expenditure. That's not enough! We need to reduce our public operating expenditures. We're not going far enough! We need room for manoeuvre to prepare for the future. With regard to the sustainability of the budget, the Government took the decision, following the first environmental defence council, to produce a "green budget". We are pleased that this was a proposal by the majority in the great national debate. Nevertheless, the green budget is not the yellow budget that I asked for last year's publication. While the Green Budget can only identify green spending and revenue from environmental taxation, the Green Budget, a much more ambitious document, must make it possible to assess the compliance of all government spending with the requirements of the Paris Agreement as well as France's biodiversity commitments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei also applauds]] Finally, as far as environmental tax niches are concerned, our policy choices involve putting an end to them. In this area, however, surprise and perceived brutal decisions must be stopped, as actors need visibility and stability. We need to define an exit path applicable to all these niches and provide for compensation measures. Such a method will make it easier for us to have a calm discussion about what would be a fair carbon trajectory. One day, maybe...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u55	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u56	The debate on the direction of public finances is always a key moment in parliamentary life. Indeed, it allows both lessons to be drawn from the country's current economic and budgetary situation while appreciating the prospects for future developments. This is an important step in the preparation of the next finance bill. The latest report of the Court of Auditors on the state and outlook of public finances is a structural element of this debate and is similar to a critical exercise of government action in budgetary matters. First of all, I would like to refer to a subject that has been the subject of lengthy debate in autumn 2017 and which has already been discussed this morning, namely the financial contractual arrangements between the State and local and regional authorities. In this respect, the Court of Auditors states that, while the operating expenditure of local and regional authorities in 2018 has been at its lowest rate of development for at least 25 years, the financial contracting mechanism is not the only reason for this, but on the contrary, there are several explanatory factors, such as the efforts requested under the previous quinquennium. Paradoxically, it was the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation that refused to contract with the State that best controlled their actual operating expenses, rather than the signatory EPCIs. I quote the Court's report on local public finances: "Among the communities covered by the contractual arrangements, the decrease in the actual operating expenses of the non-signatory communities and EPCI – - 0.4% – is more marked than that of the signatory communities and EPCI – - 0.3%. » These differences simply show that coercion is not the right method. The elected representatives have a sense of responsibility and have demonstrated adaptability in recent months. Yet they have had to undergo campaigns of stigmatization and denigration on the part of the majority. In this regard, it is interesting to note that the State is the only public administration to live beyond its means. Indeed, in 2018, central government expenditure amounted to EUR 500 billion when revenues were only EUR 431 billion. By comparison, local governments spent 260 billion euros in 2018, but their revenues were higher, reaching 262 billion euros. Thus, if the Government controls the expenditure of local authorities, it does not do so because the latter would be poor managers or too expensive, but to compensate for the expenditure of central governments, particularly the State. One can also wonder about the relevance of the trajectory drawn by the law of public finance programming for the years 2018 to 2022. Again, the Court of Auditors has been critical. Indeed, it foresees a deterioration in the government balance from 2020 onwards, due to a lower than expected growth scenario as well as less effort on non-interest expense expenditure. This makes the Court say that the stability programme is no longer "consistent with the law of public finance programming". The Court questions the executive: "if the path envisaged by the stability programme were to be achieved, the gap between the observed structural deficit and that of the programming law would exceed 0.25 points per year on average in 2020 and 2021 and should be considered as "significant" within the meaning of the Organic Law of 17 December 2012. It would involve the triggering by the High Council for Public Finance of the correction mechanism." Minister, will you introduce a new public finance programming bill next fall? In addition, you were the great defender of budgetary insinuity. But what do we read in the Court of Auditors' report? "Nearly six months after being announced, these [savings] measures are still not specified and the missions to which they would relate are not identified. No law of amending finance or decree of cancellation has come to give concrete effect to this commitment. This announcement in principle without rapid translation into a text submitted to Parliament for approval or ratification undermines the efforts made from 2017 onwards to make more sincere budgeting and weakens the scope of Parliament's adoption of the BIA. » Finally, I do not share your objective of abolishing a number of officials. The Court notes several risks on expenditure from 2020 onwards: with regard to the payroll, it states that "the objective of a net reduction of 50,000 jobs in the public service of the State [...] would imply [...] reductions in employment in ministries with priority tasks". While teachers are on strike, hospital and EHPAD staff are on the brink of the nerve crisis and the means available to the security forces to work are very inadequate, can you tell us what priority missions will be sacrificed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u57	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u58	I agree with you, Mr rapporteur-general: I am sorry that we received this shot at a very late date from the Government last night, not to say last night. This practice is not ideal for our parliamentary work. This public finance policy debate is important because it allows us, in mid-term, to reaffirm our commitments by 2022. I will focus on three priority commitments. Our first commitment is to restore purchasing power to households, to our fellow citizens. The reduction in income tax will be effective on January 1, 2020, following the vote on the Finance Bill for 2020. It is also important to recall the definitive and total abolition of the housing tax on principal residences for 80% of French citizens, pending the extension of this measure to all French citizens in 2022. Our second commitment is to make our taxation more readable and fairer. First of all, I will mention the reform of local taxation, which we will be discussing shortly, which will make it possible to secure the financing of local authorities, to strengthen the link between local elected representatives and our citizens and, I hope, to put an end to a number of territorial injustices that we have been suffering for almost half a century. Making taxation more legible also means reducing the excessive complexity of the tax. Minister, thank you for mentioning the work we have done on the elimination of small taxes. We must continue in this direction. Parliament also needs to reflect more broadly on the affected taxes and tax expenditure. Let us reverse the initial paradigm: instead of asking ourselves what taxes should be abolished, let us ask ourselves what taxes should be maintained! The maintenance of such an affected tax or tax expenditure shall be justified. In the coming months or years, we could expand this method and imagine setting a expiry date for the affected taxes, which I propose to limit to five years. If we are not able to justify the usefulness of an affected tax, it would become obsolete, de facto, at the end of that period. This method would have a double merit: it would force us to look at the taxes affected one by one and, in the long run, allow money to be returned to the general budget of the State, with a view to better control and control on the part of parliamentarians. Our third commitment is to respect the path of responsibility that we voted in 2018. We have to say things as they are: we have decided to give back purchasing power to the French, faster and above all more strongly than we expected at the beginning of the quinquennium. Of course, the updated government deficit target for 2019 is slightly different from the forecast in the original 2019 Finance Act – the difference is 0.2 points. I repeat, we have returned money to the French by lowering the tax burden;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u59	What about VAT?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u60	... this explains the slight change in the path of the deficit, which remains a downward curve. The same applies to debt. I find it rather odd to hear the representatives of the old majorities, in particular the one which raised public debt from 60% to 100% of GDP in five years, reproach us today for failing to respect our trajectory while the gap in balance is limited to 0.2 points over a year. It is necessary to remain consistent, to have a little common sense and to make the French understand that this difference is due to a reduction in the tax burden far greater than expected. Between 2017 and 2022, we will have returned €27 billion to households while reducing the deficit by 1.5 percentage points by reducing the debt to 97% of GDP. It's an equation that I challenge all of you to realize, how difficult it is! But we're going to make it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei also applauds]] I will conclude my speech by referring to debt and interest rates. These are particularly low, as my colleague Bénédicte Peyrol explained. We need to have a debate on the state financing conditions and the investment strategy. We are not discussing these issues enough in Parliament. Should we invest in times of low and moderate growth? If so, what would be the use of this loan? What should its funding conditions be? I will make a proposal on the parliamentary procedure: I suggest that this public finance policy debate be transformed into a real debate on debt, state financing conditions and our investment strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u61	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u62	Before discussing the guidelines for public finances in the context of this debate, I think it is appropriate to re-establish the current context. Unfortunately, a large number of budgetary visionaries are in the red, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out. First, while the deficit was reduced in 2018 to 2.5 points of GDP, the situation in France remains worse than that of most European countries. Indeed, the euro area's government balance is -0.5 percentage points of GDP, when Germany has a surplus of 1.7 percentage points and the Netherlands has a surplus of 1.5 percentage points. That is to say, our results are much worse than those of our partners. Italy, for example, has much better results than we have, with a deficit of 0.4 percentage points below that of France. Secondly, our structural effort is less. According to the European Commission's estimates, the cumulative structural effort in the years 2011 to 2018 was less significant in France than in the euro area. While in France this structural effort focused on revenue, i.e. compulsory levies, throughout the euro area, the effort was divided between revenue and expenditure. This shows that France has not produced all the efforts it could have made in terms of expenditure. According to the European Commission's forecasts of 7 May last year, our country has the highest government deficit in the euro area in 2019, at - 3.1 points of GDP; This is the first time our public deficit has deteriorated in ten years. Thirdly, the Court of Auditors draws our attention to the risks of an expected increase in the government deficit. We could face an overexpenditure of EUR 4.3 billion, resulting from an overexpenditure of EUR 2.8 billion compared to the original finance law and an uncertainty of EUR 1.5 billion on expenditure reductions presented in the stability programme but not justified. In terms of public expenditure, the effort is again being pushed back. Fourthly, our stalling at European level is rather worrying, because France has not started to cut public spending while the other countries have embarked on efforts. Fifth, our debt ratio is expected to rise again, in 2019, by 0.5 percentage points of GDP, after stabilizing in 2018. Sixthly, the state is the worst student because, if our public balance was reduced from 2.8% in 2017 to 2.5% in 2018, it is only through local authorities, which we must thank, and social security. Indeed, the government deficit accounts for 125% of the government deficit, as the Chairman of the Finance Committee pointed out. With the state of the art, let's look forward to the years 2020 to 2022, by taking up the economic and social emergency measures of 2019. The decisions taken to respond to the autumn social movement represent a cost to the State of EUR 10.9 billion in 2019. This is the renunciation of the €3.9 billion increase in the carbon tax, the upgrading of the business premium for €2.8 billion, the defiscalisation and desocialisation of overtime for €2.4 billion, the cancellation of the increase in the CSG for the smallest pensioners for €1.4 billion, the extension of the energy cheque and the reinforcement of the cash premium for €0.4 billion, and the payment of an exceptional premium exempt from social security and income tax. Only EUR 4 billion was financed by an effort to reduce public expenditure by EUR 1.5 billion and by additional revenue of EUR 2.5 billion. These additional revenues include the postponement of the decline in the corporate tax rate, the introduction of a digital business tax and the amendment of the tax integration rules. That's where the bastard hurts. First, as the rapporteur-general points out in his report,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u63	[[Smile]] Excellent report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u64	... management savings of up to €1.5 billion have not yet been documented.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u65	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u66	Of course, Minister, we will probably have to wait for an amending finance law, but it is regrettable that at this time of the year you cannot tell us any leads on this reduction in pilotable spending of EUR 1.5 billion in 2019. In addition, last April, the President of the Republic announced, for 2020, a reduction in income tax, the reindexing of retirement pensions below EUR 2000 on the level of inflation, and the renewal for one year, under certain conditions, of the exceptional premium of EUR 1000. These measures will have a budgetary impact of EUR 6.4 billion, of which EUR 4 billion is offset in the path presented to us. How will this compensation be made? Finally, the new expenditure announced by the President of the Republic will represent a total cost of between 17 and 20 billion euros, of which more than three quarters are not yet funded. Several tracks were launched, probably as test balloons. The review of some tax niches was discussed, which would therefore correspond to tax increases for some taxpayers. There was also talk of a postponement in January 2020 of the development of the APLs, which would generate 900 million euros of savings in full year. There was also talk of increased control over public spending, but again there is no documented evidence. What about the financial impact of the unemployment insurance reform in 2020, mentioned by Mr Bruno Le Maire a few moments ago? We don't have much on the subject. Nor is there a word about the possible effects of pension reform or dependency. It must be noted that the Government remains silent on measures to reduce public expenditure. If the majority gives lessons on the proposals for legislation of the Republicans Group, although accompanied by proposals for substantial reductions in public expenditure, we never hear you, ladies and gentlemen, denounce the unfunded billions of the Government. This double standard, this dogmatism, this contempt for the opposition, does not serve your role of monitoring the action of the Government. What about the downsizing of the public service? The goal of a net reduction of 50,000 jobs in the state civil service? Nothing on this point either. As a result, an additional EUR 2.4 billion in deficit is forecast at 2.1 points, an increase of 0.1 points in 2020, in 2021 and 2022. In addition, the Government plans to introduce a new airfare tax from France. While the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister said a few days ago that they did not want to create a new tax or increase deficits, it is ultimately the opposite. In France, there is still a problem with a new tax, whereas taxes are the problem. Let us stop with punitive ecology passing only through taxes and standards. Let us finally adopt a positive and incentive ecology. Admittedly, the postponement of the abolition of the housing tax for the most affluent 20% of French people, originally planned for 2022 and staggered by one year, is expected to generate 3.7 billion euros of savings over two years. Moreover, the debt burden is falling, allowing the Court of Auditors to expect up to EUR 4 billion in additional savings next year and according to the rapporteur-general, a gain of EUR 11.9 billion by 2022 in view of the 2017 forecast. On the other hand, public debt continues to increase. From €2_188.5 billion in 2016, it increased to €2_315.3 billion at the end of 2018, an increase of €126.8 billion over two years. The debt reduction ambition is being revised downwards and the gap between the debt provided for by the Public Finance Programming Act in January 2018 and the April 2019 stability programme is 5.4 points of GDP by the 2022 deadline: it is considerable. The rapporteur adds that "France has not only been in debt to finance capital expenditure, it has also been financing its operating expenditure by debt for many years. You added in this rostrum, minister, that today's debt is tomorrow's taxes. We share this fact, but efforts are not on the table. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] At this stage, the public finance policy debate leaves us hungry. While we are talking about 2020, we do not yet know whether the management savings of €1.5 billion have been achieved for 2019. The ways in which public spending is falling remain unclear; the debt continues to rise and its reduction is already being returned to the Greek calends. With regard to the control of public accounts, the Government is going to give up in renunciation to the point of abandoning any ambition. Low rates ultimately prove to be a trap that blinds you and leads you to justify your renunciation. In reality, unfortunately, the Government continues to finance its decisions through debt. That is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u67	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u68	After a careful examination of the multiannual framework for public finances, the report on the development of the national economy and on the guidelines for public finances, the report of the Court of Auditors and the report of the rapporteur-general, and finally having been able to consult, this very morning, the valuable document describing the appropriations of the ministries by budget mission, I would like to stress the importance of the work done so that everyone can understand the budget that you are preparing. I would like to shed some light on this, especially for those who cannot read these 500 pages of budget prose. In December 2018, in the midst of the yellow vest crisis, when I was in the majority, I voted against the 2019 finance bill, considering that it did not take into account the social emergency and the ecological emergency. I have noted that the expenditure generated by the very short-term law of 24 December 2018 on economic and social emergency measures should be offset by revenues linked to the shift in the downward trajectory of corporate tax and the creation of a digital services tax. Allow me to raise some doubts about this rebalancing. But it's mostly the urgency I want to talk to you about. In all this budget documentation, this cold matter, I have sought what would be to comfort our fellow citizens who are experiencing so many difficult times, a change of possibilities, a well-being. If I dared, I'd say I stayed on my hunger. The lesson of something that the yellow vest movement could have been for you has taught you nothing: no new proposal that would come to tackle the evils and misfortunes of our society. The Prime Minister's general policy speech on 12 June began with the words: "We have been governing for two years now and there is always an urgent need, perhaps even more so. [...] Social emergency, as our fellow citizens cry out from isolated territories, as hospital staff say. » Where is the budgetary translation of this emergency? It's a budget proposal for the Thirty Glories you're presenting here. And then there's the ecological emergency. In the same general policy speech, the Prime Minister told us: "There is an ecological emergency, as young French people call it against governments and businesses that would not do enough. In the document presenting the appropriation limits for the 2019 Finance Bill that you were pleased to share with us this morning, Minister, at the "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" line, there is a 0.07% increase in appropriations compared to the Public Finance Programming Act. The numbers don't lie. The answer to the French and French who are worried about the future of our planet, of our environment, is 0.07% more credits! The rapporteur-general has asked you to add a few bricks in this respect. Rather, it is a fiscal ocean of ecological change that should be brought to light and very quickly, because each second counts. Minister, on the occasion of previous years, you have welcomed the fact that you have made considerable progress on budgetary sincerity. I recall that the principle of budgetary sincerity is not to underestimate the costs or to overestimate the resources presented in the finance law. I give you credit for considerable progress in this area. You and your government still have to be sincere, which means, if you choose, taking on this fiscal stance that ignores the social and ecological urgency or revisiting your copy to adopt a new fiscal philosophy. Earlier, MP Bénédicte Peyrol recalled the need for a budget that appeases a world concert of very agitated nations. Think about it, but please, no promises from Gascon – and it's a Gascon who asks you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u69	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u70	This debate on the direction of public finances gives me the opportunity to go back to the main axis of public policy that has structured our action since the beginning of this quinquennium. The aim is to ensure that professional activity is remunerative and that our citizens benefit from the effects of economic growth. In the first financial laws, we lowered social charges and transferred part of the social levies from wages to a much wider base including financial products via the CSG. This winter, at the heart of the social crisis that has been expressed in our country, the executive announced several measures of purchasing power, welcomed by our majority: the cancellation of the increase of the CSG for certain pensions; the increase in the activity premium and the challenge of the end-of-year premium and overtime. Then came the announcement of the total removal of the housing tax. We have all worked in the course of the great debate to find ways to further strengthen the purchasing power of households. We were starting from the fact that the rest of the household has been able to decline in recent years as a result of increased expenditure, but we do not, of course, underestimate the effect of the lack of dynamism of wage growth in our country. Through the reduction of the income tax by 5 billion in 2019 finance law, we are organizing a substantial effort towards the middle classes through the reform of the personal income tax. This measure is the result of the great national debate which has been a great moment of exchange between parliamentarians, but also the local elected representatives and the executive, and the French. At the end of this great debate, the parliamentary group La République en Marche called for this reduction in income tax, in accordance with our movement. In view of the obvious usefulness of this change, the President of the Republic has confirmed it and even strengthened it in relation to our initial proposals, clarifying an envelope of 5 billion returned to the middle classes. This is a measure of social justice. While measures in favour of households may have been legitimately decided by the previous government, the entry into the income tax scale is now far too abrupt. That is why we are going to give him progressivity and shift these efforts towards middle-class assets. Of course, parliamentarians must be involved in this reform. They need to be equipped to give substance to this relief. As you know, since the beginning of our mandate, we have made the choice to enhance our role in monitoring and evaluating public policies. That is why, with regard to fiscal policy, we want to revisit tax niches. We must include in our agenda a regular and systematic review of each tax expenditure, in terms of the public policy it must serve. As you said, minister, we cannot lower facial rates without reviewing the mechanisms that reduce the base of certain levies. In order to restore the balance of income tax and make it more equitable, we must certainly make it less abrupt at entry, but also put an end to certain unfair advantages over the top of the scale. That is what we are committed to doing in our parliamentary group to respond to the unequivocal call of our fellow citizens for tax fairness. On the other hand, the virtuous trajectory of public finances that we finally find must not be degraded by our redistribution measures. Moreover, the trajectory of corporate tax and its balance is an issue. Let me turn to the effort we are asking for in relation to compulsory levies on businesses, particularly in relation to taxation on profits. First of all, let us say that the seriousness and balance of the majority are reflected in the readability we give to our taxation on companies and its harmonisation at European level. This translates into a decline in the announced and realized facial rate, which has to accomplish its trajectory towards 25%. We also call for an effort by the largest companies to finance our year-end announcements. Our majority must be proud of this programming with its adaptations. We will be able to take on many subjects able to restore meaning to our base: a reduction in the rate, of course, but also a consolidation of the tax base. This policy debate must also remind us that Europe will allow us to recover from the base, thanks to the forthcoming transposition into our legislation of the measures relating to profits and the consolidated base of the directive, known as ATAD, on the fight against tax evasion. Finally, this debate on public finances allows us to recall the international consensus tracks that the OECD is clearing up on behalf of the G20. Fukuoka in June allowed the major industrial countries to converge on the digital economy. Let us continue to fight to change the territoriality of the taxation of profits, as we did with regard to VAT a few years ago. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Minister of Public Accounts, you know my positions on niches in corporate tax – niche Cope, mother-daughter scheme. Also know that my support and that of the majority have been given to you in order to finally restore a coherent meaning to the taxation of companies in France and Europe. Let us pay attention to the meeting to be held in Washington this autumn, during the discussion of the draft budget for 2020. This is an important lever for achieving our budgetary balance objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u71	Mr Emmanuel Maquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u72	"France lives beyond its means," the Prime Minister said in 1976. This formula, set out at a time when the debt was barely 20 per cent of GDP, is still valid forty-three years later. It even takes a stronger sense at a time when our debt, under your responsibility, is approaching 100% of GDP. Some irresponsible people believe that this result would not be so serious compared to the United States, which has already exceeded that rate, or Japan, where the debt reaches 250 per cent of its GDP. Let us recall the two reasons why debt should be reduced, beyond the threat of an economic crisis or a rise in rates. The first reason is that debt creates a political illusion that hides the real cost of living for citizens. By habituating them to services that are not funded, we point the finger at an electoralist mechanism that prevents any backwards and polarizes against the state all frustrations. The welfare state is a magnificent idea, a Gaullist idea based on solidarity and good management, but it should not have become, alas, a gear producing public spending. It would be dramatic to throw away a beautiful idea by reducing it to this practice. "To name things badly is to add misfortune to the world," said Albert Camus. The second reason is that debt undermines democracy, because it makes it possible to finance the standard of living of our citizens with the money of our children, who have not yet been able to vote. We thus create the conditions for a conflict of generations by taking advantage of an advantageous social model whose bill will be left to the next generation. The President of the Republic himself did not err in saying that "Debt is tax squared. » Ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming urgent to take a frank turn that has not yet been sufficiently initiated. Last year, the rapporteur-general said that the time had not yet come to take a decision. When will you decide? The targets for 2022 have been drastically reduced. You plan to increase public debt by almost 0.5% per year until 2022, compared to 0.325% per year in 2017. Similarly, under the 2017 Public Finance Programming Act, you planned to close the quinquennium with a public expenditure of 50.9 per cent and a debt of 91.4 per cent of GDP. After only two years of mandate, these targets are revised to 52.1 per cent public expenditure and 97 per cent debt. If we continue at this rate, we should note immediately that by 2022 the level of spending will not have changed and our debt will have exceeded 100%. The political and social context explains that you wanted to slow down. In this case, you still have the solution to remove the obstacles to growth. In this case, your efforts are notoriously insufficient. Your measures to fluidize the labour market, encourage learning and shift savings towards productive investment are in the right direction, but we would rather need a fiscal and social big-bang. However, you leave aside key issues, such as increasing the volume of work or reducing public employment. We propose to trust the territories by strengthening their fiscal and regulatory autonomy. Local and regional authorities have proven to be trustworthy in managing public money more virtuously than the state. We also suggest reducing the complexity of administrative procedures, which paralyze the French in their daily lives as well as all the creators of wealth, from the farmer to the great business manager, to the liberal professional. In this regard, it can only be seen that the law for a State serving a trust society has not had a decisive effect. Finally, we recommend reducing the scope of the state. Since the beginning of this year, we have set up almost one agency a month – after the High Climate Council, it was the turn this month of the Online Hate Observatory. Will these agencies responsible for writing reports in all possible and conceivable areas be multiplied for a long time? The State is not the solution to these problems. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You will always find on our bench Members ready to support reforms carried out for the good of the French. "I believe in man more than in the state." Our fellow citizens hold the keys to their own success. This country brings together all the forces needed to win. It is up to you to let them take over their destiny, to trust them. In a word, it is up to you to bring the state back to its rightful place so that society can regain all its energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u73	Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u74	We can approach this public finance policy debate in two different states of mind. The first is to invoke a golden budgetary age which, de facto, never really existed. Even the most experienced on these banks have not experienced a period marked by a real balance in our public finances. Two hundred and thirty years ago, on 11 July 1789, Louis XVI sent away Necker, his minister of finance. Everyone knows what's next, she's not very happy. The second is to examine our public accounts, not to shed crocodile tears, but in the light of the needs expressed by the French. In fact, just as we do not undergo a radiographic examination for the pleasure of looking at the photos, we do not discuss a budget for aligning the figures. Budgets are eminently political texts, not only because they are amended, discussed and voted by national representation, but because by integrating the weight of inheritance – almost a year of national wealth of public debt – these texts affirm choices and chart future prospects for our country and our territories. The prospects for the future concern in particular our young people, who sometimes find it difficult to find their place in a world without a fixed reading grid and rightly urge us to put all public policies at the service of the ecological emergency. That is why it is consistent to make our budgetary choices more readable and to better measure their impact on ecological transition – as our colleague Bénédicte Peyrol said earlier, who called for the publication of a genuine "green budget" to review government spending and assess its compliance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement. Many of our young people abstained in the last elections or turned to the candidates of protest, extremism and the raze table, especially towards this extreme right whose economic orientations are still difficult to read and which has nothing to offer to young people, neither for the end of the month, nor for the end of the world. For the past two years, we have decided to deploy a real strategy throughout the country to make our young people succeed and to combat house arrest. This policy of substance, gradual and massive, is already yielding tangible results, everywhere in France. Thus, in Béziers – at random – dozens of classes in CP and CE1 have been split since the 2017 school year, allowing many children to learn better. The first evaluations of the scheme, made public in early 2019, reveal the potential of these measures. Also in Béziers, and in about ten other departments – before the generalisation of the scheme at the beginning of 2020 – all young people aged 18 are entitled to the Pass Culture, in an amount of 500 euros, which gives them access to artistic and cultural activities, In Fréjus – always at random – 9,000 premises are now connected to the very high speed, compared to just over 1000 in 2017, or nine times more. This seems annoyance, but access to very high-speed access allows you to create your business, to take online courses, to develop telemedicine, to register on Parcoursup, and even, for the most motivated, to follow this debate live. In Hénin-Beaumont – still at random – more than 7,500 tax homes will no longer pay a housing tax by 2020 – saving around 700 euros per year. Young people are far from the only beneficiaries of this measure, as many families will benefit from the disappearance of this unfair tax. Minister Gérald Darmanin recalled that, in aggregate, taxes on households will have fallen by 27 billion by the end of the quinquennium. This considerable amount could almost make the Normand that I am a Marseillesman, but the finally started decline of compulsory levies and which will increase significantly in 2020 shows that it is already a reality. Budget discussions, which may seem esoteric to many of our fellow citizens, have transformed and consolidated our economy while improving the management of our public accounts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The aim of the majority and the Government is to pursue a policy of concrete action. We will always prefer the boost to the burst. I do not think I can make much progress in saying that this ambition will also be that of the municipal teams that form themselves. The future of our cities, our villages, is also written in this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u75	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u76	The past year will have had a fundamental virtue: to clarify the expectations of our fellow citizens. We are now in Act II of the quinquennium. The guidelines you are proposing, Minister, in your report in preparation for the debate on the direction of public finances are a first step in this direction. They enable us to meet two requirements that our fellow citizens have imposed on us. The first is to show consistency in the implementation of our programme and in the follow-up to our priorities, which are also those of the French: to break the inequalities of destiny, to strengthen the fight against insecurity, trafficking and delinquency, to restore purchasing power to the middle classes. It is thanks to this demand that our fellow citizens will be able to reap the benefits of the reforms that we have been carrying out since the beginning of this Parliament. The second is to accelerate our efforts in favour of tax cuts, social protection reform and environmental transition, with incentives to transform our consumption and production patterns and to preserve the environment without aggravating social inequalities. The first priority is the fight against destinies. Daughter of the North, teacher and principal of school, I know what I owe to the school of the Republic. It must and must always enable every child to emancipate and flourish, and every teacher to deliver his or her courses in the conditions most conducive to the learning of children. That is why we supported and financed the duplication of classes in priority education areas, compulsory schooling from 3 years or the increase of the premium of teachers in priority education networks – REP. We will therefore support any budgetary effort to limit the number of students per class to twenty-four in all CPs and EC1. The school of the Republic must also be an inclusive school, which provides suitable teaching solutions for all pupils. As rapporteur for the "School education" mission, I will ensure that the Government's commitment to open 250 ULIS classes – local units for school inclusion – in high school, between 2017 and 2022, is maintained. Our second priority is to combat insecurity, trafficking and delinquency. Indeed, no one can enjoy his freedoms if he does not live in safety. I am elected from a constituency where police officers and residents of certain neighbourhoods have seen the Republic move too far in the face of drug dealers and organized gangs. That is why we have supported the budgetary efforts necessary for the establishment of a daily security police in the republican reconquest districts. Over the past two years, an additional €600 million has been spent on the security mission's budget. Our security forces have been the pillars of the preservation of our Republic for thirty consecutive weekends. Here I would like to express my gratitude to them and to pay tribute to their professionalism. That is why we will support, in the context of a forthcoming Internal Security Programming Bill, any budgetary effort aimed at modernizing the equipment and premises of the police and gendarmerie forces and improving the rate of recruitment of police and gendarmerie personnel on the ground, as close as possible to our fellow citizens. Our third priority is to restore purchasing power to the middle classes and workers. We thought we had already done a lot by deciding to abolish the housing tax by 2022 or to raise the allowance for adults with disabilities by 90 euros per month. But the tax burden on the middle classes arose from a deaf anger that finally broke out last November. Our fellow citizens have therefore asked us to do more and have firmly opposed uniform increases in taxes. That's why we supported an average 50% increase in the work premium for low-income workers, winning between 0.5 and 1.5 SMICs. We will also support the reduction in income tax provided for in the next finance bill, which will represent an average gain of €350 per year for households taxed on the first tranche of the scale. There are other issues on which our fellow citizens have asked us to act faster and more importantly. We are thus called upon to make our social protection system more just and to raise our ecological ambitions. However, on these sensitive issues, reforms could lead to greater social inequalities if they are carried out without concerted, hasty, with additional taxes and taxes. We refuse to do so, and that is why all the intermediary bodies and the citizens concerned or involved in these matters will be involved in the reflection. In terms of ecological transition, reconciling growth and reducing our carbon footprint is not only an option: it is an imperative. Opposing them would mean going through the "decrease", i.e. the disappearance of sectors of activity, whole parts of the industry, and thus jobs. It is precisely this type of society project that has created resentment in a whole part of the population, which has demonstrated in numbers to express its refusal to be left behind by a radical ecological transition, which would not take into account the fragility of each one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u77	Thank you for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u78	That is why our ecological ambitions aim to reconcile both climate emergency and the fight against the social divide. Our majority will support the financing of infrastructure to limit the carbon footprint of the transport sector: I am thinking in particular of the Seine-Nord-Europe Canal, which will also provide jobs, which will free the roads of 500,000 lorries a year. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Constance in the implementation of our programme, speeding up reforms: these are therefore the two imperatives that guide the trajectory of public finances that you propose to us for the next three years, Minister for Action and Public Accounts, and which we support, in keeping with our European budgetary commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u79	Mr Laurent Pietraszewski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u80	After two years of rigorous and sincere management of our public finances, we commit ourselves in this policy debate to continuing the recovery of our public accounts, which is not based on a logic of planing but on structural reforms that our country so much needs. Employment and training policy is thus emblematic of the budgetary strategy that we have been pursuing for the past two years and that we wish to pursue, knowing that it is primarily aimed at transforming public action to restore the balance of our budgetary accounts because, for years, expenditure seems to have played the role of a palliative or even a political tool designed to calm down or mitigate certain structural dysfunctions – I am thinking in particular of aided contracts which are not financed. The first two aspects of the transformation of our social model since the beginning of the quinquennium are perfect examples of our fiscal strategy. For example, labour law reform ordinances have provided more flexibility in hiring businesses and simplified social dialogue by placing negotiation as close as possible to the ground. The reform of vocational training and apprenticeships, promulgated in September 2018, aims to facilitate the mobilisation of the rights to training of the employed, especially the least qualified, and to promote alternance training, the effectiveness of which is recognised for the occupational integration of young people. This policy is effective, ladies and gentlemen, it has contributed to the improvement of the employment situation in our country over the last 20 months: the unemployment rate reached its lowest level in the first quarter in 10 years, now at 8.7% of the labour force, compared with 10% at the beginning of 2017; 500,000 jobs have been created in the last two years. Our goal is clear: to continue the decline to bring the unemployment rate down to the 7% peak. In 2018, given the 310,000 young people in apprenticeship and the nearly 8% increase in the total number of apprentices, we can only welcome the momentum and measures we have launched! And more jobs are more tax revenues and more social security contributions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u81	Yes! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u82	Our budgetary strategy is also to focus investment spending on grant spending on aided contracts, whose effectiveness has been little demonstrated. The 2020 budget of the "Work and Employment" mission will therefore have to take on again the choices of reallocation of our resources, and greater budgetary efforts to enable the farthest public from employment to have access to certification and skills training, which will guarantee sustainable job integration. As such, the Skills Investment Plan, which aims to train one million additional low-skilled job seekers and one million young people away from the labour market, will continue to deploy by 2022: 13.8 billion will be mobilized by the end of the quinquennium. Moreover, the creation of the operator France compétences makes it possible to better coordinate the actors in vocational training and apprenticeship. The third aspect of our strategy is to break the idea that a policy is all the more effective as it mobilizes growing budgets. The amendment of the unemployment insurance compensation rules, the provisions of which will be in place between November 2019 and January 2020, aims to encourage the resumption of employment so that employment never pays less than inactivity; It is intended to continue the decline in unemployment while preserving our system through the deleveraging of UNEDIC, amounting to EUR 3.4 billion over the period 2019-2021, i.e. on average EUR 1.13 billion per year. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] Employment policy is therefore at the heart of the transformation of the majority, including quality employment policy, since we want to strengthen the share of CDI hirings, and finally on a historic increase since we came to responsibilities after years of decline. We expect from you, Minister, specific commitment plans on employment policy that you intend to pursue with your colleagues, commitments on the priorities of the Government and its majority in favour of a renewed policy to combat unemployment and invest in skills and training, particularly for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u83	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u84	In the context of this budgetary policy debate, I would like to go back in detail to the financing of the fight against poverty. First of all, I would like to point out that the 304 programme "Social inclusion and protection of persons" has given itself an additional action for 2019: "Interdepartmental strategy for the prevention and fight against poverty of children and young people", to which EUR 171 million is allocated. The plan to combat poverty aims to respond to the wish expressed by MP Victor Hugo before the national representation: "I am not [...] of those who believe that suffering can be eradicated in this world [...], but I am one of those who think and claim that misery can be destroyed. » The State has therefore embarked on a proactive policy of contracting with communities implementing social policies. This is particularly the case in the case of the exit of social assistance for children, which the Assembly recently debated when considering a bill by Mrs Brigitte Bourguignon: the State has thus committed itself to financing, to the tune of 12 million euros a year, a mechanism so that the children placed in care can be truly accompanied towards their autonomy after their 18th birthday. Similarly, following the signing, just a year ago, of an objective and management agreement with CNAF, the State committed itself financially to strengthening policies to support parenthood, creating access spaces for rights and services, financing facilities for young children and access to childcare facilities for children in poverty. But what was done within the framework of the 2019 Finance Act is only the first step in a system that has to rise in charge. The sums invested will have to be substantial – the executive itself having mentioned a plan of 8 billion euros – because the necessary social investment is necessary: there are 8.8 million poor in France; There are 3 million poor children in France. It is the accumulation of problems that engulfs individuals in sometimes unsurpassable difficulties and locks generations in social determinisms: we can no longer accept that a poor child today becomes a poor adult tomorrow. The priority is therefore to combat the reproduction of inequalities, by tackling inequalities of birth: the poverty reduction strategy thus invests in early childhood, at the service of social mix and an educational continuum of 0 to 6 years so that all children have access to the various forms of care. It is also the object of schooling from the age of 3 and of the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in REP +, as our colleague Catherine Osson has just recalled. To ensure the basic rights of children on a daily basis, breakfasts at school and social pricing at the canteen have begun to be financed. But too many slums remain, too many children go from emergency accommodation to hotel accommodation, to the detriment of their health, emotional development and schooling. Mixed marauds combining the powers of the State and those of social action will therefore have to organize themselves throughout the territory in order to identify and build with the families a real project of exit from the street. And then the state will not be able to fight poverty without an ambitious support for employment: the skills investment plan has €15 billion to train two million low-skilled people, in addition to the reform of vocational training and apprenticeship, and the obligation to train all young people up to the age of 18. At the same time, on the basis of the two reports by our colleagues Claire Pitollat and Christine Cloarec on the accompaniment of the beneficiaries of the RSA and on the right provision, a public service of integration will be created in order to offer a new form of social and professional accompaniment. In addition, a large-scale consultation was launched on 3 June in order to create a universal income of activity. This simplification measure is intended to respond to the phenomenon of non-use of rights. It is indeed 30% of the potential beneficiaries of the RSA who do not have access to it, thus putting themselves on the margins of national solidarity, because they do not know or dare to ask for it. Public policies in this area will need to be stepped up as a result of the work of the regional conferences of the poverty prevention and reduction strategy. These include institutions and associations, state and local authorities services, social partners and businesses, and always the beneficiaries and users, who are at last seen as real actors and the strength of proposals in the implementation of policies concerning them. The State must ensure the coherence and fairness of these policies, while leaving the territories a freedom of initiative and innovation, as close as possible to their needs and taking into account their knowledge of the ground: it is the object of the contract with the departmental councils, which will result in increasing funding since it is expected to increase from 131 million euros in 2019 to more than 200 million euros in 2022. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] In order to combat poverty, we must therefore develop policies for co-construction of guidelines, "go towards" them, and promote access to rights, training, education and housing, while ensuring the early identification of fragility in order to develop prevention. This strategy aims to consolidate the assuring welfare state of the twentieth century, consubstantial to our social pact. It is because our majority wants to eradicate the inequalities of destiny at birth and wants to destroy poverty that we must make it a strong and priority public policy. We shall therefore ensure, Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, that it is translated into the budget texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u85	Mrs Christine Cloarec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u86	The document submitted by the Government to Parliament in preparation for today's debate is particularly rich. Let me therefore, Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, ladies and gentlemen, direct my remarks on the policy of improving the purchasing power of households which we have been conducting since the beginning of the mandate and which we intend to pursue. The economic context is now rather favourable. Indeed, after several years of stagnation, activity accelerated sharply in 2017, with a growth rate of 2.3%, remained dynamic and is expected to be so again this year. At the same time, good news has reached the employment front: the unemployment rate is now 8.7% of the working population in the first quarter of 2019, the lowest in more than 10 years. These figures are the result of the public policies implemented, and are all the more gratifying as they have been achieved by respecting a voluntary and extremely constrained budgetary framework. Our sense of responsibility has led us to set ourselves a budget balance target that will almost be achieved at the end of this quinquennium, since by 2022 the government deficit will be only 1.2% of GDP, compared to almost 3.4% in 2016. In response to the social challenges that have emerged in recent months and taking advantage of a favourable environment marked by low interest rates, the Government has chosen a rate of reduction of the public deficit slightly degraded in 2019 – 0.1 per cent below forecast. Despite this constrained framework, efforts to reduce public spending since 2017 have allowed us to create room for manoeuvre and to take several measures that are favourable to households by reaffirming the objective of strengthening purchasing power. Note the abolition, as early as 2018, of sickness and unemployment contributions in the private sector; for employees paid to the SMIC, this represented an increase in purchasing power of 263 euros, and 277 euros for the self-employed. It should also be noted that an additional 1 million households were added to the business premium, the exceptional revalorisation of which, coupled with the legal increase in the SMIC, resulted in a purchase power gain of EUR 100 per month for a single employee. The adult disabled benefit is also increased to 900 euros per month in November, representing a total increase of 11 %, equivalent to 81 euros per month. The increase in the solidarity allowance for the elderly – the minimum old age – of 35 euros this year and again next year will allow him to cross the 900 euro mark for a single person. This increase is higher than that which would result from the annual increase of 0.3% applicable to the majority of old-age benefits. Measures in favour of households also include an increase in the maximum amount of the childcare supplement for families in respect of children with disabilities, an increase in the free choice of childcare for single-parent families, and the harmonization of the scales and ceilings of the childcare allowance for young children and the family supplement. It is also worth mentioning the exemption from overtime and overtime, which has been in force since 1 January 2019, because for the 6.8 million private employees who worked an average of 11 overtime hours per month in the first half of 2019, this represents a gain of 670 million euros. Finally, the exceptional purchasing power premium paid by the employer on a voluntary basis, which amounted to EUR 2.2 billion and was paid to 5.5 million employees, for an average amount of EUR 400. This household-friendly policy will be pursued. The drop in levies will thus be magnified with the modification of the income tax scale, which will save taxpayers almost EUR 5 billion, i.e. a gain of around EUR 300 per household. In 2023, no one will pay residential tax on their principal residence. The amount of pensions less than EUR 2000 will be re-indexed to inflation as from 1 January 2020. Finally, the exceptional premium, exempt from social and tax levies, will be extended for a period of one year, as long as it is linked to the conclusion of interest agreements. For 2019 alone, the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques estimates the increase in the purchasing power of the French to about 850 euros per household, which is not nothing. These few examples also demonstrate our ability to control the evolution of public spending, and thus to ensure the sustainability of our French social model for future generations. These objectives guide the action we have been taking since 2017: I am therefore pleased that our country's next finance bills have confirmed their continued existence. We must also continue to invest in solidarity for the emancipation of all and to prevent and combat poverty, because beyond the figures, there are citizens who expect a system to be readable, responsive and to encourage job integration and employment recovery. They also expect to be better informed and better accompanied. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As a reference on the Poverty Plan, I am committed to monitoring its implementation and to engaging in consultations prior to the future law on universal income and the public service of integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u87	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u88	[[Smile]] For about an hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u89	The Members who have made the effort to remain at the end of this debate deserve an answer, even if it cannot be as detailed as they would like. In any case, we will have the real budgetary debate at the time of the consideration of the finance bill – and the social security financing bill on social issues, mentioned in particular by Olivier Véran and Laurent Pietraszewski. The chairman of the Committee on Finance has criticized us for increasing the burden on businesses, but it is too fine for us not to notice that in reality the taxes they have to pay have fallen very significantly since the beginning of the quinquennium. The budget for 2020 confirms this trend and brings the decline to over EUR 10 billion, which had never happened before. It is true, and the Minister of the Economy has not made this a mystery, that we are delaying the implementation of certain measures, particularly those relating to corporate tax. But perhaps, Mr President of the Commission, are you referring to the GAFA tax and to the reduction of tax and social niches? By the way, the opposition sees such a reduction only as the possibility of increasing tax revenues, while we certainly see social measures – in the case of DFS – or ecological measures – in the case of non-road diesel, GNR. In any event, we will have the opportunity to come back to that when we look at the finance bill. If Mrs Valérie Rabault has left, I know that Mrs Christine Pires Beaune will echo my remarks to her: I cannot let her say what she said about the contract, namely that a corset would stifle the local authorities and keep them in a state of vassalisation. Perhaps Ms. Rabault preferred the method of reducing staffing to those same communities? We have not made such a choice, but on the contrary, that of freedom, in particular freedom for those with own resources, and the contract, particularly for the most important of them, in order to allow the majority of the 36000 communes in France, which now have an operating budget of less than EUR 60 million, to enjoy the most complete freedom. Mr Benoit referred to the concern expressed by the Court of Auditors about the target set for reducing fiscal and social niches for the IDU and independent group and quoted the figure of EUR 250 million over three years. The Government expects a total of EUR 1.5 billion from this policy: this has been said about DFS, patronage and GNR. In the area of fiscal and social niches, the rapporteur-general and Mrs Émilie Cariou, in particular, referred to other possible avenues. This is not in line with the intention of the Government, but the Minister of Public Affairs and Public Accounts is of course at the disposal of the deputies to consider any proposal. Parliament also voted on the tax: even with an unfavourable opinion of the Government, nothing prevented a majority of parliamentarians from adopting such measures. We will therefore, of course, look with interest at the suggestions made by the rapporteur-general. Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol was right to stress the role that tax provisions can play in the field of ecology. She hoped that the budget documents would take better account of this issue and called for more efforts to be made to green tax policy. We are working on it, and we will draw much inspiration from its work. Finally, several of you – I am thinking of Mrs Véronique Louwagie, Mr Eric Woerth – have asked me about a law on public finance programming. In this connection, I would first like to point out to Mr Philippe Vigier, Mrs Valérie Rabault, Mr Éric Woerth and Mrs Véronique Louwagie, in order to dispel any doubt on this point, that the whole of the announcements made by the President of the Republic are integrated into the trajectory of public finances. No tax reductions or spending increases are planned outside the limits we have reported: all announcements have been budgeted. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On the other hand, I agree with the request made by the rapporteur-general and other Members: a new law on public finance programming is probably necessary. I am very much in favour of this: I have asked the Prime Minister and I believe that parliamentarians will relay my request so that we can have a debate on this point from next October.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u90	The public finance policy debate for 2020 is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u91	The next item is the discussion, following the initiation of the accelerated procedure and the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal for a law by Mr Guillaume Vuilletet and several of his colleagues to facilitate the management and exit of the estate indivision and the operation of an aerodrome in French Polynesia (No 2085, 2119). As this text has not been amended, I shall put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-11-E1012.u92	Next sitting, Tuesday, 16 July, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Election of an alternate judge to the Court of Justice of the Republic; Final reading of the draft law for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris; Consideration of the bill to establish the National Sport Agency and various provisions relating to the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. The meeting is adjourned.
