ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft finance law for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u3	Madam President, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased, together with the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, to present to you for the third year in a row the broad guidelines of the finance bill – PLF. With this 2020 budget, we make clear policy choices. We first make the choice of work, to pay the French who work better. This is the meaning of the fall in income tax, which complements all the measures taken over the last two years to better pay the job: increase in the activity premium, defiance of overtime, abolition of the 20% tax on self-employment, abolition of wage contributions... Work today pays better in France and will continue to pay better, especially for the most modest. We also make the choice of ecological transition. In 2020, €6.3 billion will be invested to develop renewable energies. The envelope dedicated to the car bonus and the conversion bonus will increase by 50%. The green transition tax credit will be transformed into direct aid and concentrated on the poorest households. The ecological transition must not be reserved for a few: it must be accessible to all. Our third choice, finally, presented to the French by the President of the Republic in his programme and supported by the majority since the beginning of the quinquennium, is that of a policy of supply. We have been defending the competitiveness of our businesses for more than two years and we will continue to do so. Corporate taxes will fall by €1 billion in 2020. As everyone knows, we are making these choices in a context marked by the slowdown in global growth, mainly because of the trade tensions that have increased over the past year. The United States taxed $50 billion in Chinese imports a year ago; In December, they will tax 10 times more, 520 billion, almost all goods from China. This trade war is part of an intensification of geopolitical tensions, including tensions between Europe and the United States. The latter announced last week their intention to impose tariffs on aircraft, French wines and European cheeses on 18 October. This American decision, I repeat, is a twofold mistake, both economic and political.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u5	This is an economic mistake because it adds crisis to crisis and trade difficulties to those already existing. It puts the risk of global growth falling by 0.5 percentage points in 2020. No one has an economic interest in the proliferation of tariffs and trade sanctions. This is a political mistake because these sanctions will increase the divergences between the United States and Europe, while we need more convergence to address the challenges of our century – technological and digital challenges, rising inequalities within the industrialized countries. Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East have worsened the situation and European uncertainties have not dissipated, particularly in view of the risk of a Brexit without agreement. To these difficulties, which draw an upset economic horizon for 2020, is added a new economic situation, unprecedented in the history of the major developed nations: low or even negative interest rates; inflation also very low; and a low growth rate. Low rates allow the Government to reduce the debt burden. They also provide an opportunity for individuals and companies that can, to invest. However, I am convinced that it would be irresponsible to base our economic policy on this tool alone. First of all, because these rates will go up one day or the other, and the same ones that repeat "Debate! We will not be able to explain how to finance the debt burden at higher rates. Secondly, because low rates affect the profitability of the financial sector, banks and insurance companies, which employ 800,000 people in France today. However, the lack of profitability in the financial sector is beginning to cause problems, including employment, for some French companies. Finally, because low rates do not benefit those who do not have the means to invest, i.e. the poorest households, who do not have the opportunity to become in debt. It is therefore essential that monetary policy at the origin of the low and negative rates be complemented by an offensive fiscal policy on investment – this is the message that we will send to our German partners and friends next Wednesday at the Franco-German Council of Ministers – but also by maintaining supply policy and continuing the country's economic transformation, in line with the guidelines that I will announce tomorrow when presenting the broad lines of the productive pact. In the face of a slowdown in growth, investment is the only effective response. This is the meaning of the Government's tax choices in favour of businesses. There will be EUR 1 billion in net business tax reduction in 2020. Burden relief, regardless of wage levels, will also be maintained in its entirety. As we put it in the 2018 budget, they were strengthened on October 1st: there are no more employers' contributions at the level of the SMIC. The rate of general relief fell by 4 points for the lowest wages, between 1 and 1.6 SMIC. I have followed closely the debates in the majority and in the House on the advisability of reverting to certain reliefs on the grounds that they would not be sufficiently effective and that others could be strengthened. I sincerely believe that such a measure would send a negative signal to companies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u6	They're already moving out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u7	... would lead to the return of competitiveness - less attractive cost for our companies and would eventually affect attractiveness, and thus job creation in France. It is therefore neither responsible nor opportune to go back to the reductions in burdens that have been decided: they improve the competitiveness-cost of our companies and create jobs in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u8	Companies are moving out anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u9	The decline in corporate tax will continue in 2020 for all businesses, regardless of their size, to reach 25% by 2022. Some call for a return to our initial corporate tax reduction trajectory for larger companies, but that would also be neither timely nor responsible. This would degrade our accounts by 2 billion euros. In addition, there is some justice for companies to see their corporate taxes drop at a slower pace – from 33.3% to 31% in 2020 – than businesses with sales below EUR 250 million – from 33.3% to 28%. They are the ones who need it most, to regain profitability.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u10	What about the dividends?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u11	Another reduction in business tax: the levy on businesses allocated to the financing of chambers of commerce and industry – CCI – will decrease. Last year we committed ourselves to reflecting the decline in the resources of chambers of commerce and industry, in the form of a reduction in production taxes for businesses. We are keeping our commitment in this budget. You know how much I care about lowering taxes on production, and that's what we do for all companies. I want to dispel the concerns of the chambers of commerce...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u12	And industry!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u13	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u14	...and that, legitimate, of some parliamentarians. I will personally pay attention to the situation of the KICs. The decline in their resources must not put them at risk, and we will ensure that they do so. If we observe that reform is too difficult to follow in some territories, especially in rural areas, my door will always be open to assess the pace of the decline in the ITC resource ceiling and, in a related way, the rate of the room fee. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei also applauds]] Furthermore, as I have told the President of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, following the meetings we have held with the Prime Minister and Gérald Darmanin, the Government will give a favourable opinion on the request to abolish the France Télécom levy. This is one of the many small taxes that we have decided to remove. Nearly 30 million euros will be returned to the chambers of commerce to accompany the transformation of their model. That effort will be made. In total, business taxes will fall by €13 billion over the quinquennium. In addition to the 27 billion tax cuts for households, this makes 40 billion tax cuts over the entire quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u15	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u16	This reduction in taxation allows us to break with ten years of massive increase in tax pressure on both households and businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u17	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u18	Finally, we have maintained, and will maintain, an offensive innovation policy. We are indeed sanctifying the research tax credit – CIR. I want to respond to the criticisms, concerns and doubts that have been expressed about it. The IRC is an instrument that works and makes our country attractive. It allows our companies to continue to be innovation leaders. I am told that it would benefit only large companies. This is not true: large companies account for only one third of research tax credit expenditure, medium-sized enterprises – ETI – and small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – two thirds. I am told that it would not be sufficiently effective in research and development – R&amp;D. But 1 euro of tax credit research is 1 euro of additional private R&amp;D: it is therefore a real support for R&amp;D in our country. I am told that he would be diverted by companies that would not use him to do R&D. That's not true. The risk of fraud is controlled and limited, and the research tax credit, I would remind you, benefits the industry in large part, whose recovery we continue to support. To touch upon the fundamental parameters of the IRC would call into question all the innovation policy that we have been leading for almost three years for companies. On the other hand, we have examined with the utmost attention the Court of Auditors' remarks on the lump sum for operating expenditure, which it considers overestimated. We follow its recommendations and will propose that the rate of this operating package be reduced from 50% to 43%, saving €230 million by 2021 on a tax credit of more than €6 billion. We are also responding, as I said in the introduction, to the legitimate expectations of the French who want their work to pay more. In this way, we are undertaking a massive reduction – EUR 9.3 billion – in the household tax that the Minister for Action and Public Accounts will give you. We will also submit tax reductions for the coming years, including the total removal of the housing tax by 2023. They will be in addition to the upgrading of the activity premium, the defiant end-of-year premium, the abolition of any tax on self-interest and participation for SMEs, and all the measures we have taken over the past two years to pay more for work. Since the 2008 financial crisis, those who have come out the least well, who have been most penalized, who have had the most difficulty in regaining a decent standard of living are the French whose wage level is the lowest. It is therefore just, necessary, necessary to do everything possible to raise the income of these millions of our compatriots, without affecting the competitiveness of our economy: this is the balance that we achieve through this finance bill. In order to finance these tax cuts, we are going to reduce several tax niches, using a new method of listening more, of discussing and of finding compensation for the sectors concerned – I know that the rapporteur-general attaches particular importance to this point, with good reason. The first niche that we are going to remove is the one on non-road diesel – GNR. While it is consistent with our policy of accelerating the energy transition to remove this tax advantage, it is also essential to take into account the economic reality faced by the companies concerned. I am convinced that the essential ecological transition can only be successful with the consent of all the sectors concerned, and therefore in consultation. It is better to take a little more time and to have the support of all the professions concerned, of all the households involved in the transformation, rather than to rush a change which will, in turn, encounter insurmountable resistance. The first increase in the GNR tariff will therefore only take place on 1 July 2020, instead of 1 January, in order to allow companies time to adapt to it. Neither farmers nor the rail transport sector will be affected by the abolition of the reduced tariff. This, which is a gradual one, will be associated with accompanying and compensating measures adapted to the sectors affected, in particular public works, with which I have exchanged many times. For this sector, the most affected by the measure, we undertake to implement the following provisions: a general price revision clause; an over-amortization to acquire cleaner equipment; an increase in the State's advance to SMEs in the context of public procurement with the largest local authorities and public institutions, from 5% to 10%; Finally, the eligibility of the maintenance work of the network of local authorities to the Value Added Tax Compensation Fund – FCVAT – in accordance with a very long-standing request from professionals. The other sectors – port industries, cold transport, distributors, extractive industries – will also be accompanied as much as possible during the transition. I repeat, there can be no lasting or definitive change in the fiscal niches without consultation with the actors concerned or accompaniment. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The second niche is that of corporate patronage, which is growing rapidly, so we want to frame it. We propose to reduce the challenge rate from 60% to 40% for donations above €2 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u19	That's a very big mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u20	This choice, which concerns only seventy-eight large companies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u21	What about culture? She's taking a shot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u22	... is consistent with our decision to reduce corporate taxes for all businesses by 2020. The third measure we are returning to is the benefit associated with the specific lump sum deduction, which will be capped, as the Minister of Shares and Public Accounts will tell you. These measures, together with the efforts to reduce public spending that Gérald Darmanin will be presenting to you, enable us to achieve a public deficit level of 2.2% in 2020, the lowest in 20 years, and a stable debt of 98.7% of gross domestic product. This level, I repeat, prohibits us from further debt. I absolutely do not believe in a debt solution: the reduction of public debt must remain our objective. Debt has increased by 30 percentage points of GDP over the past 10 years; we have stabilised it, we are beginning to lower it, and it is to the deleveraging of our country that we will obtain the additional revenues that we will obtain, for example through the divestiture of assets of La Française des jeux. Indeed, we cannot leave to future generations a burden of debt and a burden of debt that may increase in the years to come. Finally, we present you with a reduction in compulsory levies which will be 1.3 points during the quinquennium, instead of 1 point originally planned: in other words, we will go further than what was announced in terms of lower taxes for both households and businesses. These are the main directions of the Finance Bill for 2020. We can be proud of the way in which our economy, our companies resist the international economic situation that I presented to you in the beginning. 1.4% growth, one of the highest levels in the euro area ; an investment that is increasing; falling unemployment; Business investment is on the rise, by EUR 50 billion for two years and by 2020 another EUR 20 billion: all this shows that we are on the right track. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is therefore necessary to maintain the fundamental choices that we have made and to continue to reward better those who are responsible for these growth successes, that is, the French employees. It is also essential to win the battle for innovation and new technologies, which will be the major economic powers of the 21st century, and to convince our European partners of the need to collectively invest for more prosperity and jobs in the euro area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u23	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u24	[[Smile and applause]] First of all, I wish a happy birthday to the rapporteur-general, as well as to Émilie Cariou, who was born the same day if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u25	Oh, not so long ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u26	As life is well done, we are starting to review the finance bill for your birthday! So here we are again for a few weeks, days and nights, and even a few months of budgetary debate. We are very happy to introduce you for the third year in a row – and aren't we saying that love lasts three years? -...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u27	Oh, my God! We're not returned!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u28	...the finance bill, after it passed into the Council of Ministers and its consideration in committee a few days ago. This text follows a logic that has prevailed since the beginning of the quinquennium, in line with the objectives set by the President of the Republic as well as with the vote of the French in the general elections. To show this, I will focus on three themes that will be the subject of debate, and perhaps controversy. First of all, from the point of view of expenditure, I will show that the Republic is arming itself for today and for tomorrow. Then, as far as recipes are concerned, I will try to solve in front of you the riddle that a great economic newspaper was reporting this morning:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u29	The Echoes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u30	...yes, taxes are falling and yes, revenues are increasing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u31	What a trick!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u32	You will see: by focusing a little, you will succeed in understanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u33	It's magic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u34	Finally, I would like to stress the budgetary and fiscal hygiene that we have respected for the past three years, in accordance with the principle of budgetary sincerity and in connection with remarks made in various parliamentary reports. Yes, therefore, with regard to expenditure, the Republic is arming itself for today and for tomorrow. I want to highlight the nation's substantial efforts to prepare for the current and future fighting, particularly in the area of regalism, with for example an increase of 1.7 billion euros in the army's appropriations – the increase observed over the past three years has not been equivalent since the cold war – the very significant increase in deterrence, the action on the Internet – cyber being particularly highlighted by the Minister of Armed Forces – and the increase in the number of intelligence personnel. In addition to 700 million euros of increases in appropriations for the police and gendarmerie and 2500 posts, which come to make the announcement of the 10000 recruitments decided by the President of the Republic credible. In the case of justice, an increase of some EUR 200 million, in accordance with the Law on Programming and Reform for Justice, and 1500 posts in the prison administration, should be noted. We will have an opportunity to discuss this throughout our discussions. The Republic is arming itself for today and for tomorrow, and especially for tomorrow, in education and research, with more than EUR 1 billion in increase in appropriations for national education; with the limitation of the number of pupils per class to twenty-four, twelve in priority education, thanks to the duplication of classes – a very beautiful public policy that bears witness to the equal opportunities that we offer to the children of the Republic; and finally with the increase in the income of teachers, especially bonuses for those who work in difficult neighbourhoods. This is also reflected in the achievement and budgetary creditisation of the universal national service and in the importance attached to civic service. In addition, an additional €500 million is allocated to research even before the law of multi-annual research programming, including €200 million for space research, one of the major challenges ahead, which obviously concerns our territory and our industrialists, as it commits our ability to protect space. This post receives a 10% increase in appropriations as our country prepares to be at the meeting of space sovereignty in a few weeks' time in Seville. The third area in which the Republic is arming itself for today and for tomorrow is of course ecology, with 800 million euros in additional appropriations. This is the financing of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France – AFITF – a big issue on which you and we have worked a lot, for example in the framework of the mobility policy bill, as well as the resources needed to drill the Seine-Nord Europe Canal, a large transport infrastructure that we are happy to be able to finalize, with the valuable help of Europe, while the project was waiting to be budgeted since Napoleon I! In addition, €3.5 billion is spent on energy renovation aid for private individuals. This includes the scheme of energy saving certificates, but also, an important part of the budget, the transformation into a bonus of the tax credit for the energy transition – ISCED – which will allow the middle and popular classes, on which the need for a cash advance had a deterrent effect, to launch the work much faster. The Republic also protects its children. The commitment of the President of the Republic with regard to the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH – is maintained. It is increased to 900 euros per month from November 2019, which represents an increase of more than 1.2 billion euros compared to 2017, for 1.2 million households. As for the measures relating to the premium of activity, which were included in the presidential programme, their implementation was accelerated following the major debate. I would like to draw your attention to this point: in 2017, when we arrived, it was planned to spend €4 billion on the bonus, and we are at $9.5 billion in the finance bill for 2020. As a result, we have more than doubled the amount of this work-related benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u35	Instead of companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u36	On average, 4 million French households receive 200 euros. This is a good policy which illustrates the words of the Minister of Economy and Finance on France, who is working, as do our tax measures on housing tax, the reduction of income tax and the defiance of overtime. Second theme: yes, taxes are falling while revenues are increasing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u37	For multinationals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u38	It's Laffer upside down, Mr. Roussel! Less tax creates the revenue. This fiscal dynamic explains, in particular thanks to the work of the Government and the parliamentary majority, the additional revenues we see. [[Smile]] Let's take this interesting case of income tax. Perhaps this will allow me to solve the riddle, the optical illusion that one can be victimized when one looks at things from a little distance – because they are seen more closely, they are clear. So let's disappear, as in Mr. Rembrandt's chart. In 2018, income tax amounted to €73 billion. In 2019, ladies and gentlemen, you voted for a €70 billion tax forecast. Here, to the right, we could hear – by the way, you remember, the levy at the source, supported very widely on all the benches of the Chamber, as everyone knows... – Mr de Courson, Mrs Louwagie or Mrs Dalloz shouting to the scandal: we were going to make money lose in the country, reducing the revenues to 70 billion! And we were admitting it ourselves in the finance bill! The rapporteur-general had been riddled with questions by Mr Le Fur – who will perhaps again this year mention the collection at source as we are talking about a war that has been lost... In short, let's look at what happened in 2019: we have recovered more than the $70 billion provided for in the finance bill, because we have improved the recovery by more than $2 billion. Of this amount, just over $1 billion comes from the exceptional revenues of the white year – I am thinking of the people who paid more dividends than usual, which we obviously taxed, which helped to avoid aggressive tax optimization – and the rest of the income tax revenues: we went from a collection rate of 97 per cent to 98.5 per cent, which everyone welcomes. Follow well: so we are just over 72 billion. But we know that in 2020, income tax revenues will increase by $5 billion, since in 2019 we calculated it over only 11 months, due to the shift from tax to tax at source, and that one month is $5 billion. Except that we withdraw $5 billion, according to the reduction in income tax decided by the President of the Republic in the big debate. The two movements are cancelling, and we are still at 72.6 billion. Moreover, economic activity in our country is sustained and I believe that everyone can see a development that has been widely commented on: the purchasing power of the French is increasing...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u39	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u40	...and unemployment is falling.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u41	Very unevenly according to the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u42	As income tax is progressive, revenues are increasing by $2.4 billion, and the recovery rate will be further improved next year, Mr President of the Finance Committee. This is an important piece of information for which I have reserved the first time for national representation: I think we will be able to increase from 98.5% to 99%, or 600 million euros. It would even be possible to achieve, after the tax checks, almost 100% by 2021 – we will never, of course, be quite there. Let's summarize: In addition to the 11-month calculation in 2019, we must take into account the spontaneous evolution of the wealth of our compatriots who pay income tax, as illustrated by the tax rate changes allowed by the source levy. A majority of French people dropped their rates: new pensioners, people whose economic activity had decreased in the year, or those who were entitled to an additional half tax. On the other hand, some saw their rates rise because they made more money. There have been more people who paid less tax than people who paid more. This is the principle of simplicity of source sampling. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that the Government, because its fiscal and economic policy is working and it has carried out with the utmost transparency a major reform of the recovery that it owes first and foremost to public officials, has managed to reduce the income tax in the PLF by 5 billion euros, which it presents to you while increasing the revenues by making those who did not pay. So yes, the riddle is solved. You probably had to look at it a little bit more and I'm happy to do it in front of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u44	This draft finance bill also contains very important provisions concerning local taxation. Thus, the housing tax will be removed for the 20% of taxpayers who still paid it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u45	Bernard Arnault will thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u46	... replaced by a fraction of VAT. We will also have an opportunity to explain why the Government will give a favourable opinion to the amendment by the rapporteur-general, which provides for the re-evaluation of the bases he has adopted. Secretary of State Olivier Dussopt will be on the bench to present, I have entrusted him with it, the provisions on local taxation and more generally the allocations to the communities, which not only will not decrease but will even increase by 600 million euros in this PLF. I come to the question of fiscal and fiscal hygiene. This is an important point, the thread of what the Minister of Economy and Finance and I, as well as, to some extent, the Minister of Health and Solidarity as part of the Social Security Financing Bills, have done over the past three years. First of all, I am talking about hygiene because the Government believes in its figures. They are sincere and qualified as such by you, Mr General, as well as by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, it seems to me – although it does not necessarily agree on their opportunity – by the Court of Auditors, by the High Council for Public Finance, by the European Commission and by observers. We continue, for the third year in a row, to propose a freeze of only 3%, instead of 8% when we have come into responsibility. I told the finance commissioners that this will be "sincised" this year, since it will only cover pilot lines, therefore not appropriations that are known to be frozen, including social benefits – which was still the case in the 2019 budget. It is a way of empowering the actors and it is above all respectful of parliamentary authorisation. Mr President of the Finance Committee, you will have noticed that, except in the summer of 2017, since we did not prepare the budget, no advance decree was presented to the assemblies, for the first time since the application of the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF. This obviously requires a lot of follow-up work, but it is the least of our duties vis-à-vis Parliament. Of course, the Government intends to continue along this path in accordance with parliamentary authorization. We also continue the work desired by the National Assembly, particularly by Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, which I would like to pay tribute to here in the area of small taxes. Some proposals come from the government, others from parliamentarians, some of whom have been adopted in committee – why not soon in the Chamber? You know that we are very attentive to the abolition of these small taxes which makes it possible to simplify our right in accordance with what our compatriots want. The question of tax niches will undoubtedly, as usual, be of interest to the House, because we can all do better in this area. There are 468 niches, which you will have noticed, the rapporteur-general, that their total amount is falling, since it has increased from 100 billion to 90 billion by means of a structural transformation. But if we have removed 18 niches, we create 16 of them collectively – sometimes even, let me say, at the initiative of the commission. The balance is therefore less than 2 niches. Perhaps there is still a simplification work to be done, but I see that the devil is not always that in the government proposals, we will have the opportunity to return to it. There are two ways of looking at niches. You, the rapporteur-general, would like to delete a large part of it in order to know whether the dogs deprived of their niche will wake up and whether their barking can be considered. We will debate the amendment that you have adopted to that effect. The Government, on the other hand, is proposing boundage: it is not a question of removing the niche considered – such as the family tax credit, a device that must be maintained at least in large part, perhaps in its entirety – but of evaluating it. And it is the weakness of our system with regard to fiscal niches that the lack of evaluation of both the Government and Parliament, because while these measures are undoubtedly very useful for public policy, they commit a great deal of money. I would remind you that 90 billion euros is more than the income tax pays! This deserves Parliament's control over government action and, in particular, the use of the money to which it has consented. We will have the opportunity to speak again, Mr rapporteur-general, but you know how much attention I pay to your legitimate concern for evaluation. Another measure of fiscal and fiscal hygiene is the fight against tax fraud. We have made a great deal of progress on this subject, and I have explained this to myself on several occasions in committee – I am thinking of the resolution of very important tax disputes. When you look at the proposed regulations, you will find that 2019 will have been the most important year, in cash, in the fight against tax evasion. The Government has decided to show absolute transparency before you, since it will no longer transmit only the notifications of the tax control, an indication which does not inform about the actual recovery, but rather what the State will have received in its funds. From this point of view, I believe that we are all looking forward to the Court of Auditors' report on the evaluation of fraud, in accordance with the request made by the President of the Republic in the main debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u47	And a debate in Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u48	Of course, Mr. Roussel. The time has also come to implement the considerable legislation that Parliament has adopted. In this respect, the PLF for 2020 is no exception since the fight against VAT fraud – I am thinking in particular of foreign platforms –, which the European Commission has encouraged, is the subject of a very important provision, which is hard on the text. I have refused that this provision should be introduced by order so that it can be discussed on the merits. It must be said that both the National Assembly and the Senate have insisted heavily on this item being placed on their agenda, and that is the case. I have associated with the development of this measure the parliamentarians of all sides who have been willing to work on it. This will be a very important moment in the fight against tax fraud, as did our British friends, with an entry into force on 1 January 2021. In addition, the introduction of electronic invoicing on 1 January 2023 will be a good way to fight very strongly against VAT fraud. I would remind you that the state has already moved on to electronic invoicing. The President of the Republic has called for a provision to be incorporated into this finance bill, which he referred to in the great debate to determine the tax domicile to be retained for the directors of companies, including those whose State is a shareholder. We have proposed that this provision should apply to companies from EUR 1 billion in turnover. In committee, a communist amendment proposed lowering this threshold to EUR 250 million. I will give him a favourable opinion, to strengthen the fight against tax evasion or very aggressive optimisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u49	This is an amendment by Mr Mattei and I...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u50	But it is a communist amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u51	In any case, it's an amendment of comrades! "It's a nice name comrade," Mr. Coquerel, and "love is cherry"! Since this amendment improves the Government's proposal, I repeat that the Government will support it. There will of course be a discussion regarding the applicability of the tax law, but this will be a very important element, to be brought closer to the discussion we will probably have on tax havens as well as, I would like to stress, Article 57, which provides for the use of digital home data for the tax control of large fraudsters – something which the press has sometimes wrongly described as data on social networks. This measure could have been taken by regulation, but I wanted it to be presented to Parliament, which will amend, delete or adopt it, after discussions which I am sure will be exciting. Last aspect of fiscal and fiscal hygiene: recovery. A great deal of work has been done following the report submitted to the Government by Mr Gardette, which underlines the interest, in the context of the major CAP 2022 reform, on the one hand to bring together the tax collection activities, whether carried out by the Customs Directorate or by the Directorate General of Public Finance – DGFIP – everything that is not strictly customs going to DGFIP – the PLF provides for a date of entry into force – and on the other hand to reform the social recovery through the AGIRC-ARCCO – general association of the institutions of retirement of executives and association of supplementary pension schemes – and the ACOSS – central agency of the social security agencies. Other issues related to recovery are being considered next year with regard to the public service, as the question of the professions still requires some concerted work. Our country must move towards a unification of recovery, which must be simpler for companies: it is sometimes complicated to know who has to pay what is tax or social, and it is a source of error and control. Our administration will thus save time and energy, allowing agents to act more quickly and simply in their recovery mission. The collection of tax at source has shown how much the reforms in this area make it possible to earn money by charging those who owe it without increasing the taxes of others. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mrs Lise Magnier also applauds]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are important structural reforms, credits to arm the Republic, local taxation of course, the question of ISCED, the fight against tax fraud, a sincere budget, with entries and forecasts deemed to be in line... I do not know whether this is the budget for Act II, but it is probably stage III, played by the Minister for Economy and Finance and myself, and which I hope will be appreciated by the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u52	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u53	[[Smiles and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] First of all, when I speak to my last PLF as rapporteur-general, let me tell you all how much I have loved and still love this exciting task, which I have never considered to be administrative but on the contrary as adorned with rich human relations – whether we agree or disagree. [[Applause]] Of course, my thanks go to all Members beyond their political affiliation: to you, President Woerth, united that we are on the bench in an undeniable complicity, especially when it comes to cutting short to debates that are going on forever; the Government and cabinet teams supporting a fair but demanding general budget rapporteur; and finally at the service of the finances of the National Assembly, in particular Division B, Sylvain, Théodore, Julien, Geoffroy, Pierre-Alain, Antoine, Ludovic, Adrien, with Marine in reinforcement this year, and the one and those who recently left us for other activities, Guillaume, Clément and Élise. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Three finance bills, four amending finance bills, including the one that will be considered in a few days, a public finance planning bill, two regulations and a GAFA text: it leaves memories of intense working moments, with people of rare quality but always in an atmosphere that I wanted to relax and which I have no doubt will continue so with my successor – a man who loves rugby is necessarily a quality man. So this is the third draft budget that we have the responsibility to examine since the beginning of the quinquennium. The transitional budget includes both measures resulting from the 2017 presidential programme and new measures proposed as a result of the major national debate. It is, however, a continuation of the two previous budgets. Some invariants can be detected: the tax reduction, which would reach more than 27 billion euros since the beginning of 2018; sincerity, both in the underlying macroeconomic assumptions and in forecasting expenditure and revenue trends; and control of public finances, since the deficit is falling, the debt is stabilizing and will begin to decline, compulsory levies are decreasing, and public expenditure is being held. While drawing the consequences of a dark economic context and the wishes of the French in terms of taxation and public services, it allows the decline in the public deficit to continue. The latter would be 2.2% of GDP, reaching its lowest level since 2001. The text then reinforces the objective of reducing compulsory levies in national wealth by proposing a reduction of around EUR 10 billion in taxation and charges in 2020. The compulsory levy rate would be 44% of GDP next year. In total, the decrease in compulsory household levies would amount to €20.7 billion over the period 2018-2020. For businesses, this decline would reach around €6.4 billion over the same period. The evolution of public expenditure remains under control. After its decline in historical volume in 2018, it would increase by 0.7% in 2019 and 2020. On average, during the quinquennium, the rate of growth in the volume of public expenditure would be 0.4 %, significantly lower than the average rates observed in the previous two quinquennats. Public debt relative to GDP would decrease slightly in 2020, to 0.1 percentage points, against a backdrop of a sustained decline in interest rates. The debt burden of all general government would reach €33.7 billion in 2020, 2.2 billion less than in 2019. The recognition of these significant savings should not distract us collectively from efforts to restore the balance of government accounts. While I sometimes intend to raise the question of a further increase in the public deficit in order to finance investments, we must not forget that France's deficit remains higher than that of most of our European partners – this is also the case for our level of debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u55	However, we need to find room for budgetary manoeuvre in order to cope with a possible reversal of economic conditions, which is far from being a school hypothesis. These major fiscal balances presented, come to the content of the first part of the Finance Bill for 2020. As I said, tax cuts continue. Income tax will thus be reduced by €5 billion from 2020 for the middle classes. The housing tax, which was completely abolished in 2020 for 80% of households, will be phased out for all households by 2023. Despite the adjustment of the corporate tax rate trajectory, which we are likely to discuss this evening, the latter will continue to decline for all businesses in 2020. Then there are several provisions aimed at greening our tax system. The non-road diesel regime would be reformed, by phasing out for some sectors the reduced rates of the TICEP – domestic consumption tax on energy products. The energy transition tax credit would be transformed into a flat-rate premium, concentrated for the benefit of modest households. Several taxes on the road and air transport sectors would also be amended. Further tax incentives to reduce territorial inequalities are also proposed. Reduced VAT rates would thus encourage investment in the social housing sector and in the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy. This bill also creates a new zoning to encourage the establishment and support of the crafts and trade of rural town centres or centres of medium-sized cities, in the continuity of the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development – ELAN Act. Consistent with the provisions of the Finance Act for 2019, the Finance Bill for 2020 includes a program to remove eighteen low-yield taxes, following the removal of twenty-two of these taxes last year. In addition, eleven tax expenditures are subject to capping or suppression measures. Finally, this draft finance bill marks the continuation of the Government's efforts to strengthen the scope of budgetary principles and to revive the original spirit of the LOLF. The abolition of several trust accounts reinforces the principles of budgetary unity and universality, as well as the rebudgeting of certain taxes. I would then like to sum up the contributions of the Finance Committee to this bill, which it considered for much of last week, adopting a hundred amendments. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Thus, at the initiative of the Members of the La République Group on the move – in particular the president and the draftsman for the opinion of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization – we adopted the thawing of rental values of the main residences in 2020, with a coefficient of revalorisation that seems reasonable to me in the current context. I would also like to thank the Minister for having confirmed the Government's favourable opinion on this point earlier. This amendment was finally endorsed by a large part of the Finance Committee. The members of the Liberté et Territoires Group had also proposed this inflection to the original bill. At the initiative of members of the UDI-Agir Group and self-employed, the reduced VAT rate applicable to social institutions has been extended to the homes of young workers, which are intended for young people aged 16-25, employed or in training and are in a precarious situation. At the initiative of the Socialist Group, an amendment was adopted to bring the taxation of vacant housing to the same level as that on secondary residences in tense areas. The aim is to avoid that, in those areas where the housing tax can be increased, the difference in taxation encourages owners of secondary residences to declare them as vacant housing. Finally, at the initiative of the Members of the La France group, and in particular the special rapporteur Éric Coquerel, the ceiling on revenue allocated to the fund for the prevention of major natural risks, known as the Barnier fund, has been increased by 43 million euros, in order to sustain the financing of the prevention of natural risks. My colleague Laurent Saint-Martin has successfully proposed the abolition of two small taxes, including that relating to the acts of bailiffs. He was the first signatory to a Commission resolution on the general review of low-yield taxes. Similarly, Stella Dupont implemented the proposals of her report on residence fees, leading to the adoption of two amendments to simplify and reduce the amount of some of these fees. We must now conclude on these issues, in the spirit of the excellent parliamentary work mentioned, but also of the will expressed by President Woerth, who wanted to put this reform outside any political context, which I thank him for. Several of the amendments I have tabled have been adopted. I have therefore proposed to maintain the tax on advertising expenditure, which is, of course, relatively low in yield, without being epsilonesque, but which has a clear environmental purpose and whose performance I wish to improve in the second part. On the other hand, I suggested reducing the right of division for spouses and partners of a PACS in the event of separation, and removing the tax on the registration of marriage contracts – a good balance between divorces and marriages! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I have also proposed the limitation of several tax expenditures, such as the Malraux scheme, the film tax credit or the video game tax credit, in order to encourage the Government to carry out their assessment and to allow, at the appropriate time, a well-intelligent debate on the desirability of extending or adapting these provisions. We must also fight against the tax black holes that prevent us from discussing in an informed way. We shall return to the details of these measures, but for pity, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be schizophrenic, hunting tax niches in the spring, when the hunt is closed, and creating in the autumn, when the hunt is open! I have, it is true, proposed that the gradual abolition of the GNR tariff should be preserved for public service equipment in mountain areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u56	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u57	The absence at this stage of substitutable clean vehicles and the impossibility for local and regional authorities to use the excess depreciation mechanism provided for by the PLF make it imperative to maintain a specific level of energy taxation. I have also proposed the abolition of the so-called radar trust account, in order to avoid a recurrence of the current situation, namely the decommissioning of many radars, which endangers the resources of some of the assignees of the fines, including AFITF. Finally, amendments are sometimes adopted by the committee, although I have an unfavourable opinion. I would like mainly to mention the firm abolition by our committee of the reduction of EUR 45 million in the ceiling for the allocation of the additional tax to the property tax on unbuilt properties, as well as its regionalisation, provided for in the original bill. With the help of Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Émilie Cariou and others, I had proposed to make an exceptional levy on the working capital of the network for the year 2020 alone, to continue to allocate the tax to the departmental chambers, and to strengthen the mutualisation only gradually and from 2021 onwards. We will discuss it again. According to my estimates, all the amendments adopted by the Finance Committee should cost the state budget €403 million. However, some of these amendments improving the balance of other public persons, if we reason at the aggregate level of public finances as a whole, this figure falls to 129 million euros, or 0.006 GDP points – far from an amount likely to alter the balance of the PLF 2020 proposed by the Government. The Finance Committee therefore clearly shares the Government's concern to propose a draft budget that ensures that our public accounts remain balanced. We will have all these debates in session, and others that I cannot mention before you. I am thinking in particular of certain ideas proposed by the MODEM Group, which I am sure will mature this week during the examination of the PLF – several of which have just been adopted under Article 88. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any case and in summary, the 2020 PLF is both favourable to the purchasing power of the French and to the dynamism of our economy, and in line with the objective of returning to the balance of public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u58	Thank you, rapporteur-general, and happy birthday! Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u59	Before I begin my remarks, allow me to pay tribute to the rapporteur-general for his work...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u60	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u61	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... and especially for everything he brings to Members who, like me, have arrived in this noble house with little political experience. Thank you very much, rapporteur-general. In the marathon of examining the draft finance, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning puts forward a point of honour for the opinion of the first part of the text. It does so because, at a time when the climate emergency is imposing major changes on our society, our committee's mission is to propose new ideas and enlighten collective reflection in the light of the challenges of the ecological transition. Our work has been guided by the conviction that our ecological transition will be truly sustainable only if it is inclusive, if it gives everyone the chance to participate, and if it is part of the sustainable development and development of our territories. Our committee has a clear message: that of a just ecology, useful for citizens and, above all, rooted in the reality of our territories. As a follow-up to the mobility guidance law, it reaffirmed its commitment to sustain the financing of AFITF and to accelerate the ecological transition of the transport sector, notably confirming the removal of the GNR niche for certain sectors as well as the reduction of the reimbursement of ICTPE for road freight transport. This transition is essential, but must be accompanied, with the help of parliamentarians. The concerns expressed, in particular by the construction and road sectors, are legitimate. They deserve adequate answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u62	We're waiting for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u63	The Minister of Economy and Finance described the arrangements that have been negotiated and responded to these concerns. Drawing on the orientations it has forged in the Mobility Act, our committee wanted to be a force for proposals to speed up the transition of the sector. In particular, it adopted an amendment to transform the system of car malus to incorporate the vehicle weight criterion. Confirming the President of the Republic's commitment to transforming ISCED into a bonus, she expressed an ambitious position in favour of renovating it in line with global and efficient renovations, allowing, while combining several gestures, to maximise the energy efficiency of the works. I also want to highlight the work that has been done to combat the artificialisation of soil and to protect natural habitats and wetlands. Indeed, the ever-accelerated alteration of our biodiversity poses a threat not only to fauna and flora, but also and especially to the human species. If France has a major role to play at the international level, it is our duty to be exemplary in the management, protection and preservation of our natural space. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, our committee welcomes the Government's commitment to submit a "green" budget as early as next year. This is an important step forward and France is a pioneer in this field. This green budget will be an additional tool to strengthen Parliament's control over the preparation and implementation of the state budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u64	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u65	[[Smile]] Mr General, I wish you a happy birthday and a good budget for the coming months. Two readings of this budget for 2020 are possible. There is yours, which claims a stable debt, a deficit at the lowest in ten or twenty years, a public expenditure under control, a reduction in taxes and a "green" tax, but allow me to develop another vision, another reading of this budget, which seems to me to be more in line with reality. In fact, as I have already told you in committee, this budget is exactly what you would not have wanted to present if the yellow vest crisis had not moved things. A budget is not an accounting exercise, but the expression of a policy, and it must be noted that, in the field of public finances, you have quite significantly lowered your level of ambition compared to the beginning of the quinquennium. The violence of the social crisis certainly took everyone short, but I do not think the right answer was to relegate to the background of your objectives the consolidation of public finances, nor to make a change in your supply policy – a little shy, but positive – towards a policy of demand a little "old-fashioned". All this produces a short-term budget, built on the shifting sands of growth and low interest rates. You tell us that this budget is intended to lower taxes and prepare for the future. Lowering taxes is certainly an objective that I agree with, like all taxpayers – it is indeed quite popular – but you do so on credit and down. On credit, because it is the deficits, the debt and the good news of the economic situation that finance this decline. Lowering taxes today to increase those of future generations is neither responsible nor sustainable; they are therefore unfunded tax cuts. Back again, because you made the choice of household consumption against an additional effort in favour of businesses – which had to be done in these times of complicated growth. You forget a little quickly that households are made up by the workers of the companies, and that both do not oppose each other. The growth of purchasing power is not the multiplication of social transfers or the unfunded decline of certain taxes but, of course, the growth of wages and incomes. Preparing for the future is our responsibility to all of us, and I imagine the Government wants to do so. Today, taxes are falling. Actually, they're growing! You have tried to detail earlier on the terms of this decline for income tax. From one finance law to another, net tax revenues increased by 18.5 billion euros. Indeed, since 2017, France has enjoyed a wind of growth and exceptionally dynamic tax revenues – I will not detail once again what could be said about the source levy and income tax. You sometimes tell us that you realize the exploits that we should have accomplished ourselves earlier. Perhaps we should be humble, but I would remind you that between 2008 and 2009, at the time of the crisis, tax revenues had collapsed by 53 billion euros from one finance bill to another: there are 70 billion euros in revenue from the gap between the budget that you presented and the one that we presented at the time. The reforms you are doing today should therefore be part of these prospects, which have nothing to do with those of 2008 and 2009, and the budget we are looking at should be that of the substantive reforms, which is not the case. It is a budget in 3D: deficit, debt and public expenditure. The deficit forecast for 2020 increased from 0.9% to 2.2% of GDP in one and a half years. A decrease of 0.1 percentage points compared to 2019 is the least effort in this area in ten years – a lesser political and financial effort. And when we compare ourselves, we are more concerned: the difference in budgetary result is 400 billion euros between the German surpluses and the French deficits on the equivalent of a quinquennium. I'm not sure we can go on that way for a long time. Debt stagnates at a high level, which closes to 100% of GDP at a time when the euro area has managed to reduce it by 10 points in ten years. As for public expenditure, we are not making any structural efforts to reduce it. You "cool" the increase, to take your word, but this increase will still represent no less than 0.4% in volume by 2020, or about 20 billion euros, excluding tax credits, in the whole public sphere. So we should cut spending, minister. This is a vast subject, because you always refer us to our own proposals. We've made a number of them, but you don't want to read them. We refer you, for our part, to your responsibilities: it is up to the Government to tell Parliament what a serious, solid and responsible project would be over several years, which could be accepted by public opinion and which would not change France, but would significantly change the level of public expenditure. Let me give a few examples and references in this regard. The IMF calculates that we spend between 1 and 4 points of GDP more than our major European neighbours in a few areas, including health, social benefits and education. Reducing this gap by half would save us €80 billion. This would involve changing, transforming and changing our social model, which is not sustainable, in order to make it more sustainable and probably healthier: it is a path parallel to the one on which we collectively committed ourselves to ecological matters to transform our economy. One day we will have to solve this French paradox, which combines a very generous model with a great social dissatisfaction. In conclusion, I would like to say a word about local taxation and the social security budget. Instead of the great law of complete and complete reform of local taxation that you announced to us, section 5 of your very complicated finance bill simply introduces a system of compensation for the housing tax. It is an ambush and recentralizing system, which blurs the legibility of local taxation, reduces the financial autonomy of the communities and further widens the gap between their deficits and that of the State, leading the national taxpayer to finance more and more local investments. As far as the social security budget is concerned, the budgetary hygiene that you mentioned, Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, would like you to compensate for the expenditure or non-receipts that you have imposed and which reach a level of almost EUR 4 billion. A budget is also a thousand points of detail, with points of satisfaction and irritating. In this regard, I will mention three key issues to prepare for the future, on which we could easily find ourselves. The first is the adaptation to the new digital world to create a tax with equal weapons. Trade taxation, essentially based on land, creates highly inequitable situations between traditional players and those involved in online sales. There are many who support the idea – and indeed a large number of amendments have been tabled to this effect – of a TASCOM, or tax on commercial surfaces, deductible on commercial warehouses. That's a good idea, which should be realized. Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, some of the answers to digital challenges will have to be multilateral. The OECD, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, has just published a proposal to this effect and will probably be participating in meetings on this subject in Washington in the near future. However, you are aware of our concern in this regard, particularly as regards the impact this could have on France's tax system. We need to negotiate open eyes on digital taxation and on our country's interests. You were to report on this matter to Parliament on 30 September, and we would be happy to receive it. The second issue is the competitiveness of our companies. You know our position on corporate tax, but there must not be a two-speed project in this area: we will say so. However, the priority remains that of production taxes, which account for 0.5% of the value added of enterprises in Germany, compared with 3.6% in France. Everyone agrees with this observation, which the President of the Republic has just recalled. So cut those taxes, even if you don't do it this year. We will propose amendments to this effect: set at least a timetable and a reduction path. The last issue in this budget that I would like to stress is that of green taxation. Again, the road is long. Multiplying by four or even six, the level of malus on entry-level vehicles, which account for 60% of sales of new vehicles, is a lot! Similarly, to impose tax increases on airlines that have nothing to do with ecology weakens the air sector. I have proposed, with an amendment, to think differently about green taxation, in order to ensure that justice mechanisms integrated into our major taxes can also be applied in this area. I hope that you will be able to open a solid and serious discussion on this issue. Anyway, we're ready for it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, Minister, as growth erodes and clouds begin to darken the sky of our economy, you have used much of your room for manoeuvre and the time you have. In this draft budget, you have blurred many leads and messages. I hope that the lengthy budgetary debate that awaits us will give us greater clarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u66	Mrs Stella Dupont, rapporteur for the opinion of the delegation to local and regional authorities and decentralization, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u67	First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur-general of the budget on his extensive, thorough and demanding legislative work. The delegation to local authorities and decentralization decided, for the first time, to take up for its opinion an article contained in the first part of the draft finance law. This is due to the structural nature of this Article 5 on the abolition of the housing tax on principal residences and the reform of the taxation of local authorities. Despite the very limited time required for the first part of the finance bill to be considered, this initiative and the work of the hearings that accompanied it have made it possible to take better account of the financial issues specific to the various levels of local and regional authorities concerned. I will not dwell on the complexity of this article, which contains no less than 520 paragraphs and whose provisions will come into force in a phased manner between 2020 and 2023. The Government has indicated that this early presentation of the local tax reform is expected to enable it to work in 2020 to improve or supplement the system. The Committee on Local Finance will be part of it and the delegation to local authorities and decentralisation will, I hope, also take part in it alongside the Committee on Finance. Let me turn to the main provisions that have been discussed in the delegation. Many freezing measures accompany, sometimes for purely technical reasons, the gradual abolition of the housing tax on principal residences. The most debated in our work is the non-revalorization of the harmonized inflation of rental values for the establishment of the housing tax on principal residences. It therefore seemed legitimate to revert to this freeze and to allow for a flat-rate adjustment of the housing tax bases on the main residences. However, it seemed to us that alignment with the harmonised consumer price index, which may lead to an increase higher than the development of the consumer price index, was perhaps not the right index to be used. That is why I have proposed that the adjustment coefficient should be set at 1.1% by way of derogation for the year 2020. The debate in committee made it possible to move forward on this subject and to reach a consensus. Indeed, a sub-amendment by our very dear rapporteur-general has set this 0.9% increase. Minister, I welcome your decision to give a favourable opinion on this amendment, which is expected by the local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u69	The second main topic of debate within our work is the creation of a mechanism of correction coefficient – the famous coconut – whose aim is to neutralize the compensation differences related to the transfer of the departmental share of the property tax on built properties to the municipalities. The delegation to local authorities and decentralization considered that this mechanism, although it had some effects on the market, particularly for undercompensated municipalities, was rather satisfactory. It makes it possible to take into account part of the dynamics of the bases, without having any consequences on the effects of the rates. In our view, this measure is more interesting than the FNGIR – the national fund for individual guarantee of resources – which was introduced when the business tax was abolished. The third point I would like to address concerns the ability of communities in the municipal block to oppose tax exemptions on built land for new construction. The rewriting of Article 1383 of the General Tax Code raises questions as to the extent of the power of the elected representatives of the local bloc. I have therefore tabled an amendment on this subject, ladies and gentlemen. We are very committed to evaluating the reform. The Delegation hoped that it would be conducted in a time frame consistent with the consideration of the future finance bill, so that the local finance committee, as well as the various committees and delegations, could work on it in the first half of the year. An amendment to that effect was also tabled. With regard to the future, it is absolutely necessary that work be carried out in 2020 to reform the various financial indicators used for eligibility and calculation of vertical equalisation allocations and horizontal equalisation schemes. I would like to stress this important point on which we must work, Ministers, if we do not want to run the risk of a serious imbalance in the allocation of resources for all local and regional authorities. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, other measures are aimed at asking for explanations, for example regarding the suspension of tax integration procedures implemented by the EPCIs – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation. We have here a very broad dossier and questions which remain in the face of the complexity of the measures. The local elected representatives expect much from the debate on this reform in the Chamber. I have no doubt that our discussions will shed light on the issues that we have just raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u70	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u71	Mr General, I wish you a happy birthday. We are here to discuss the third budget for this quinquennium. Together with my colleagues in the Socialist and related group, I fought fiercely against the previous ones. This opposition, albeit intransigent, was in no way sectarian – events have shown this ever since. The profound injustice that has arisen from your fiscal and fiscal policy for more than two years has been strongly reminded of you by many of our fellow citizens last autumn. The Government seems to ignore the growing mistrust in the country. He wipes away the many warnings from the opposition. He does not want to see the growing feeling of fiscal injustice, the strong demand for efficient and equitable local government services throughout the country, or the aspiration to preserve our planet in order to ensure a future for future generations. Expectations were strong and your responsibility was immense at the time of the introduction of this finance bill for 2020. But here we are: our hopes as well as the hopes of our fellow citizens have gone away with the reading of the PLF but also of the PLFSS, both of which are linked. This budget is that of giving up on the expectations of our fellow citizens. For local and regional authorities, this budget is that of desolation, for our planet that of abandonment. Renunciation, because the overall reduction in taxes, amounting to EUR 9 billion, will be of no benefit to the purchasing power of a large part of those who are already struggling to finish the end of the month, those who have no choice but to live with minima and who do not pay income tax. They represent 21.3 million households! These will not see their purchasing power grow. On the contrary, by undervaluing certain allowances to the level of 0.3% – activity premium, annuities paid as a result of an accident at work or occupational disease, allowances for adults with disabilities, housing allowance for example – while this budget is built on an inflation assumption of 1.2%, you are reducing their purchasing power! This will be the case, for example, of many single-parent families, widows of farmers, poor workers. And what about the 1.3 million people, half the job seekers, who will be severely affected by the unemployment insurance reform? The Government is also planning a significant increase in the number of unemployed people at the end of their rights in 2020. By the way, the impact study does not say anything about the effect of eviction towards the RSA – income from active solidarity – at the expense of the departments, whose dynamism you reduce with the reform of the housing tax. This PLF also devotes to presidential wanderings. The candidate On the way to the presidential election announced, in his programme, the abolition of the housing tax for the 80% of the most modest households and the abolition of the ISF – the solidarity tax on wealth – for the most affluent. Note that the ISF was abolished on 1 January 2018 at one time, while the housing tax will be abolished in three years. But finally, it will also be so from 2021 for the better, which for them will represent an average annual tax gain of 1158 euros, compared to 555 for the remaining 80%. This average gain will be even greater than €2000 for households on the 45 per cent income tax scale. To this grotesque and anti-redistributive situation is added the case of the 5 million households that do not pay housing tax: they will not receive any gifts. What was perceived as a promise of popular campaigning was in fact only an electoralist, if not populist, mirage, in order to make swallow the pill of the suppression of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax for the sole benefit of the most affluent 5% of the population. But this PLF is also that of desolation for the local authorities, because it endorses the strangleholds of the executive with regard to the compensation of the abolition of the housing tax, the first tax revenue of the municipalities and intercommunalities. In order to limit the cost of this compensation, two measures penalise them. Those who increased their rates in 2018 or 2019 will be deprived of the product related to this increase. Regarding the revalorization of the bases, you change the rule of the game. While there is a clear rule – which the rapporteur-general and I voted for – providing for a revalorisation of the bases according to the inflation observed from November to November, you arbitrarily announce an undervalorisation, which is certainly less important than expected by the Finance Committee. What are you doing with the free administration of communities? These bad manners made to the latter, in addition to increasing distrust of power, seem unconstitutional to us. We will refer this matter to the Constitutional Council. We can only subscribe to the ambition of increasing equalization in favour of ultramarine territories; But what about funding? It is not the state that will grant 17 million euros more to these territories: it is once again the communities of the metropolis that will finance this measure in full instead of national solidarity. But cynicism doesn't stop there. You are also planning a €120 million poll on communities – through the reduction of adjustment variables. What's the use of that money? To increase the levy for the benefit of the territorial community of Corsica, to finance the 10 million euros intended for municipalities of less than 1000 inhabitants by the draft law commitment and proximity, to finance local tax exemptions on companies and – I would like, Mr Minister, to confirm to me this information contained in the table that has been provided to me – to finance the advisors to the local decision-makers of the DGFiP – Directorate-General for Public Finance. The bigger it is, the more it goes! What a political mistake for a few candlestick savers! The President of the Republic wanted to restore confidence: you wash his board in beauty! A total of thirty-four pages of the draft finance bill deal with the reform of local taxation. Thirty-four pages for one ambition: to reduce the financial resources of the communities and to weaken the services provided to the French. But, not content with accumulating injustices at the risk of increasing inequality, this finance bill does not erase the mistakes of the past. Over the last two years, the abolition of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax were widely denounced on the benches of this House. The evaluation report submitted by the Monitoring Committee for these reforms has given us reason to state a very serious observation as to the consequences of these measures. Indeed, the change from the ISF to the IFI – property tax – reduced the number of taxable persons from 360000 to 130000, thereby altering the consent to the tax. Worse still, this report shows that 57% of the €3.1 billion in tax gifts are collected by the 5% of the most affluent households. Moreover, the abolition of the ISF has led to a significant drop in donations to associations, which have seen their resources decrease by EUR 150 million, while in parallel, as the report notes, these reforms have led to a sharp increase in dividends. It can't last that long. This was not to last: in 2018, the government spokesman announced: "It will be necessary to see whether the money (...) returns well in the real economy (...) and (...) ensure that, if not, this system (...)". However, the Finance Bill for 2020 does not alter the injustice caused by the transformation of the ISF into an IFI and the introduction of the flat tax. Since the beginning of this mandate, your fiscal policy has increased inequality and this PLF has not derogated from it. In fact, you are reducing the progressive compulsory levies, the weight of which represents 5.5% of the primary income of households, and at the same time, you are increasing the non-progressive compulsory levies, which, however, already represent 34.1% of the income. In other words, if the French tax system was already unfair before Emmanuel Macron's accession to power, it is even more so today. Should we remind you that progressive taxation is in essence fair, fair, and encourages consent to tax, solidarity and adherence to the national project? To this is added the fact that the executive presents itself as the singer of transparency and morality in politics. It is true that it has many virtues. What a mismatch, however, between one's efforts and the widths of the other! As our citizens tighten their belts and the National Assembly has taken its part in this in recent years, the budget of the Presidency of the Republic will increase by more than 2.3 million euros. Inside this pretty pactole, 600,000 euros will make it possible to change the cars. In short, with this PLF, the breakaway bonus has beautiful days ahead of her! But it is worrying that this is not just a joke. Indeed, while urgent measures to promote purchasing power have been a necessary, albeit insufficient, response to the difficulties faced by our fellow citizens, the Government cynically chooses to finance these measures for social security. This set of communicating vases only digs the "safe hole", which was thought to have been filled according to the latest forecasts. The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, Olivier Véran, said nothing else. And because: for the second year in a row, the State's exemption from social security contributions will not be offset in the social security budget. In 2019, they represent a total of 4 billion euros, in complete contradiction with the Veil Act of 1994. For 2020, more than EUR 4 billion, again, will not be offset. The Government's strategy seems clear: knowingly provoke a social security deficit to justify the subsequent reduction of our social model, like the future pension reform or the progression of Ondam – the national health insurance expenditure target – planned for 2020, which does not allow to respond to the hospital crisis. Thirdly, this finance bill does not prepare the future of France and the French. First of all because he abandons our planet. Indeed, the planned 2.6% increase in the budget of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition is derisory. This is hardly enough both to respond to the climate emergency and to follow the model set by our European neighbours. For example, Germany has adopted a €100 billion 10-year plan to protect our planet. But worse still, the Government has planned to abolish nearly 5000 posts in the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, including more than 1,000 as of 2020. It is the administration most affected by the abolitions of positions in the Public Service with the Department of Health, the Customs Branch and the DGFiP. The facts are stubborn, and they are not up to government communication. This bill does not prepare for the future, as the Government does not take advantage of low rates to invest heavily in the energy and environmental transition that is likely to prepare for safe and sustainable growth for decades to come. Finally, this finance bill does not anticipate the risks associated with Brexit. Indeed, in its latest opinion, the High Council for Public Finance, HCFP, states that the growth forecast for 2020 "does not take into account the possibility of a Brexit without agreement and its consequences for French growth". This PLF could therefore become totally inadequate and unable to respond to future upheavals, even if they are already sensitive, in the course of budgetary implementation. Moreover, the HCFP denounces the growing gap in structural balance between the figures contained in the PLF and the trajectory defined by the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022. The budget therefore enshrines the Government's inability to meet its own financial targets. Remember, Minister of the Economy, the objectives set out in 5-3-1: a five-point reduction for public debt, three points for public expenditure and one point for compulsory levies. In 2017, the debt amounted to 96.7% of GDP; By 2022, it was expected to fall to 91.4%, or five points less; public expenditure was expected to increase from 54.6 per cent to 51.1 per cent of GDP, i.e. three points less, and compulsory levies from 44.7 per cent to 43.7 per cent, i.e. one point less. For 2020, we are planning a debt of 98.7%, public expenditure of 53.4% and compulsory levies of 44.3% – and not 44%, rapporteur-general, if I believe page 10 of the PLF!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u72	The two numbers walk around in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u73	In order to achieve its objective, the Government must therefore achieve a 7-2-1 in two years. Good luck, Minister! No one believes in it. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] So, ladies and gentlemen, how can we accept a budget that is unable to close the gaps that are emerging in our society, which is undermining the resources of local and regional authorities and our public services, which is not preparing for the future, which is not up to the climate challenge and which, in a few months' time, will certainly be unable to give France all the means to respond to the upheavals that lie ahead? Therefore, pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to adopt this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u74	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u75	The members of the MODEM Group will vote against the motion to reject. We are contesting a series of elements that you mentioned in your speech, particularly with regard to the tax and social justice measures taken over the past three years. When we look in detail at the distribution of the benefits generated by the policies implemented since 2017 – to be consulted in the Government's economic, social and financial report or in that of the Institute of Public Policy – we find that all households see their standard of living improve. Moreover, despite the ISF and the PFU, it is the middle classes that are the main winners.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u76	Did you count the increases in electricity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u77	The reason is simple: the removal of the housing tax, and above all the reduction in the income tax that we are about to vote on under Article 2 of the PLF, mainly concern the middle classes. This is a direct response to the tax exasperation that occurred during the movement of yellow vests and the great national debate. More generally, it is a fair return for these middle classes who, over the past 30 years, have experienced the lowest wage increase compared to the most and least privileged. You refer to the evaluation report of the PFU and the ISF, but a very recent note from the Institute of Public Policy, which is interested in the baremization of dividends voted by your majority in 2012 or 2013, shows that when the taxation of dividends was increased, companies stopped paying them, without investing more or paying more wages; They simply put those dividends in reserve. Today, thanks to the reform of the PPU, they are distributing them, and this capital circulating in our economy is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u78	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u79	As Christine Pires Beaune reminded us, it is difficult, if not impossible, to approve your budget. How could it be otherwise when you have the sufficient and sad habit of sending back almost all the amendments – ours as well as those of all minority groups? However, there is something to correct in your budget: some amendments could make simple adjustments to the new provisions; others, contain your ultraliberal drift. As my colleague has pointed out, this is the budget for giving up. How do you want us to approve an FLP that forgets the most fragile: those who do not pay income tax, who are not subject to housing tax, who are unemployed or who receive social benefits or LPA? And the worst part is not what you do, but what you announce. In 2017, you removed the ISF and invented the flat tax, with the budgetary consequences that we know: the elimination of assisted jobs and the planning of the APL to make savings, CSG applied to pensions and ecological taxation to create new revenue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u80	Flat tax got more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u81	At the time, you created the conditions for the movement of the yellow vests. However, in this budget, you are announcing the end of the housing tax for the 20% of the most affluent French within three years. This measure – an average gift of 1200 euros per household – costs 10 billion euros, as much as the flat tax and the ISF combined, power three! So you go straight into the wall of social conflicts, and horning! As for your ecological policy, it is abandonment. In the area of housing, you are still in the middle of small renovation policies – from measures to cutting. This budget does not meet the challenges of the planet. When is a real massive investment program to end our thermal colanders? The rates being very low, this would be the time. The Socialist and Related Group will of course support the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u82	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u83	Even if the documents annexed to the PLF do not always arrive in time to provide us with all the necessary information, it must be acknowledged that this budget is more sincere than all those of the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u84	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u85	At the same time, it's not difficult!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u86	We support the reduction in income tax and hope that the related measures will come into force on 1 January. Of course, after its consideration in the Finance Committee, the PLF still raises many questions, particularly with regard to ecological transition. But we have debated well in committee, and it is now up to us to debate it here in the sitting in the presence of the ministers. That is why the members of the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u87	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u88	This draft budget cannot satisfy us. It has many imperfections, which we will highlight in the discussion. It is thus possible to discuss the advisability of abandoning the reduction of the public deficit and to raise the question of the remoteness of the structural trajectory of public finances. Some of the savings targets announced in the Public Finance Programming Act seem untenable, not to mention that the forecasts do not protect us from a further slowdown in growth or a reversal in economic conditions. In the general discussion, I will also mention in detail the contrast between the necessary "green shift" and the lack of ecological ambition of the draft budget. The Liberties and Territories Group is also concerned about a reform of local taxation that is too jacobine to be effective, while the link between citizens and local authorities needs to be restored. In short, our group wishes to discuss many elements of the bill and has many proposals to make. Since the budgetary timetable is what it is, with its very tight agenda, we believe it is important to start discussions in open session today. That is why we will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u89	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u90	The group La France insoumise will vote in favour of the motion to reject, because by attacking the redistributive tax par excellence that is income tax and by abolishing the housing tax for the 20% of our most affluent citizens, this budget will further increase inequalities. Taking into account inflation and population growth, it also weakens the State in its redistribution mission and in the spheres of health, ecology and work. Finally, it represents a very bad economic affair at a time in history when we should invest massively in the ecological transition and stop having sovereign debt as our sole compass. The only debt not to bequeath to our heirs is ecological debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u91	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u92	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will also vote on the motion for the prior rejection of our Socialist colleagues. As we have seen in recent months, our country faces three major emergencies: environmental, social and fiscal. Nothing or almost nothing in this budget meets these three priorities. You're talking about tax cuts; Multinationals and large groups with more than EUR 250 million in turnover will benefit from this; As for taxpayers, 22 million of them will not benefit, because they do not pay taxes. In addition, you prefer to lower the taxes of the first two instalments rather than increase those of the highest instalments of taxpayers; The budget of the State will be reduced. You're talking about a drop in public spending; For our part, we want to talk about public investment to respond to the environmental and social emergency. We will therefore vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on the benches of the GDR group. Alain David also applauds]] Minister of Economy and Finance, when I hear your speech on the savings that would be needed when we should invest and invest more, you remind me of Don Salluste, the greedy minister of finance of the king of Spain who said: "This year, the harvest was very bad, so we have to pay twice. The poor are meant to be very poor and the rich, very rich. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u93	Change your speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u94	Mrs Nadia Hai has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to you, but I do not understand your position at all, which is totally inconsistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u96	I'm not surprised! You should get out a little bit more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u97	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For months and months, you defended, like us, the increase in household purchasing power. But we thought you were going to pass, like us, from words to deeds! After having voted for the increase in social minimums, such as the allowance for disabled adults or the minimum old age, and the premium for activity, we continue today to reduce the tax burden on our fellow citizens, which the previous majorities have steadily increased year after year. Everyone needs to know what you are asking us to do when you propose to vote on this rejection motion: you are asking the French to give up the exceptional bonus, known as the Macron bonus, which has been endorsed by many SMEs and TPEs; the reduction of corporate tax; and the defiance of overtime. In fact, it is not surprising when you know your reluctance to our investment and work-friendly policy; But we thought that we would at least find ourselves on measures to respond to the economic and social emergency, the yellow vest crisis. Yet again, you are asking the French to forgo the abolition of the housing tax for 80% of them and the reduction of the income tax for 95% of taxpayers. Everyone will remember that with their motion of prior rejection, the Socialist Party is sacrificing social progress on the altar of political politics, while we want to act as closely as possible to the daily lives of the French. You will therefore understand that the La République group is voting against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u98	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u99	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u100	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The Republican Group will vote on the motion to reject it for reasons different from those invoked by our Socialist colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u101	Please, ladies and gentlemen, listen to each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u102	... and which are due first of all to the non-compliance with the deficit reduction voted here only two years ago, during the review of the law on public finance programming, the deficit forecast for 2020 is twice as high as that of the euro area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u103	That's the majority in the face of its inconsistencies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u104	It is a question of credibility for you, and we are helping you, by voting on this motion of rejection, to respect what you voted two years ago, to get back to work to deliver on your commitments. We will vote on this motion for several other reasons: the EUR 50 billion increase in debt while the context of reducing interest rates would allow us to do much better; non-compliance with the commitment made to companies to reduce their tax burdens and thus to strengthen their competitiveness on a sustainable basis; the inability to strengthen the state's investment share, which amounts royally to just 5% of the budget you propose,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u105	The state isn't investing anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u106	...and thus the inability to really prepare for a sustainable transition. [["That's not true! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You're financing desirable tax cuts that we've been asking for over the last two years, but you're doing this by increasing corporate debt, without reducing excess spending and creating new taxes for tomorrow. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is not a sustainable budget, neither in budgetary matters, nor in tax matters, nor in terms of ecological transition. That is why we will vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u108	Pursuant to article 95, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, the Government requests that, after article 1, articles 11 and 16, relating to corporation tax and domestic fuel tax, as well as amendments to the additional article after those articles, be considered as a matter of priority. Furthermore, the Government requests that on Thursday, 17 October, at 9 a.m., articles 18, 19 and 20, on taxation of motor vehicles, road freight transport and air tickets, as well as amendments to the additional article after these articles, be examined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u109	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Noël Barrot spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u110	We are approaching the consideration of the finance bill for 2020 in an uncertain global context, with threats that are accumulating on global growth: trade tensions, Brexit, monetary crisis in Turkey or Argentina, geopolitical tensions in the Middle East... The opposite winds blow stronger than ever. In this context, our country draws its pin from the game. While France is expected to grow in 2020 close to 2019, i.e. 1.3% compared to 1.4%, Italy could enter a recession, while Germany would experience growth of less than 0.5%. Unemployment continues to decline and is at its lowest level since 2007. The purchasing power is rising sharply. All this is the result of the strong measures to support the demand of households that we have taken over the past two years, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic. The trend in public finances is good: it is marked by a decline in public expenditure, a historical decline in compulsory levies and a public deficit of 2.2% of GDP, the lowest in 20 years. This deviation from the path envisaged two years ago, Mr Bonnivard, we fully accept it, for two reasons. On the one hand, the French, for six months, showed a tax exasperation to which we could not remain deaf.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u111	It's been two years since we told you that your method was not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u112	The massive fall in income tax and the reform of its scale have been forcefully demanded, we apply them, and we assume the consequences for the deficit in public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u113	That you are aggravating, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u114	And to those who still doubt, despite the intervention of Minister Darmanin, we must remember that we are indeed keeping the promise of the President of the Republic: taxes will fall by 5 billion euros this year. The planned collection is €75.5 billion for 2020 and would be €80.5 billion, or €5 billion more, if we did not vote on Article 2 of the PLF. On the other hand, as interest rates become negative, monetary policy becomes inoperative. Only fiscal and fiscal policy can support activity and growth. There are also voices, with Olivier Blanchard, that if interest rates are lastingly below the rate of growth, a certain level of public deficit can be sustainable without necessarily implying a subsequent increase in compulsory levies, provided, of course, that fiscal and fiscal policy is carried out wisely. I welcome the progress we are making collectively to make more informed decisions than we have done in the past. The Finance Bill for 2020 includes three advances in public policy evaluation that I welcome. With the Leximpact interface, we have for the first time this year a real tool to simulate and evaluate our amendments to Article 2 of the text, which concerns income tax. It builds on the OpenFisca simulation model and mobilizes data that the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – INSEE – has agreed to make available to Parliament. It simulates the effects of changes in rates, instalments, the family quotient, the haircut for public finances, and on inequalities. Almost all of the amendments tabled in committee on Article 2 have mobilised Leximpact, which shows the usefulness of this simulation model to quantify Members' amendments. Secondly, the Green Budgeting – the Green Budget –, which we owe in particular to our colleague Peyrol, who aims to give parliamentarians, and more broadly to the French, information on the impact of every public policy on the environment. Experienced on some of the missions of the general budget for 2020, a world first, we hope it will be applied to the entire PLF next year. We owe the third step to the joint effort of the Government and Parliament. Article 7 provides for the removal of five inefficient tax niches, and for the limitation of three tax niches for valuation purposes, according to a detailed timetable in the annexes to the draft finance law. Thanks to the Government for agreeing to detail the programme of its evaluations for the coming years – this is an important step forward. In substance, the draft finance law is the budgetary translation of two absolute priorities for the members of the MODEM and related groups: fiscal and social justice on the one hand, and the fight against climate change on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u115	It's missed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u116	Justice, first of all, with the reduction in income tax, targeted at the middle classes, the reform of the scale, the abolition of the refaction and the modification of the haircut which, together, make this tax fairer and less disincentive to work, with an average gain of 300 euros for 17 million tax households.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u117	What about the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u118	Thanks to the Leximpact simulator, we have made complementary proposals with a constant envelope: the increase in the number of instalments to make the scale more progressive, since it has never been so little, the increase in the ceiling of the family quotient of 100 euros, long expected by families, and the freezing of the indexation of the scale on the highest instalments, which mainly benefits the most affluent. We also propose, with Sarah El Haïry, to promote intergenerational transmission by facilitating the donations of the living. To finance these measures, we propose to review the inheritance benefits for the largest life insurance companies and to adjust the scale of very high estates in direct line. Tax justice also, with excellent measures to combat VAT fraud, which join our colleague Laqhila's proposals, to make the platforms accountable, and to establish a blacklist of non-cooperative platforms. In this spirit, and pending the conclusion of your negotiations, Minister, on behalf of France with our OECD partners, we propose the introduction of a minimum corporate tax rate, as is the case in the United States.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u119	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u120	To put online sales platforms on an equal footing with physical shops, we propose to subject their warehouses to the tax on commercial surfaces – TASCOM. As the President of the Republic has wished, and following the recommendations of our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei's report, we hope that the managers of companies based in France will be taxed on their income in France and thus contribute to the financing of public services and national solidarity. Fiscal justice always, with the Government's desire to remove or limit certain tax niches to assess their consequences and usefulness. Like other groups, we have identified niches, such as the tax credit for the production of audiovisual works, the reduction of the domestic consumption tax on energy products – ICTPE – for large energy-using installations or the inheritance benefit of life insurance contracts. We do not claim that these tax niches are useless or inefficient, but only that the time has come to learn a little more about their beneficiaries and their cost to public finances. Justice finally with the determination of the members of the MODEM Group, as every year, to strengthen the social and solidarity economy, with amendments by Sarah El Haïry aimed at securing the status of solidarity companies of social utility and that of solidarity land, or to raise the threshold of operating revenues for non-profit organisations in order to take account of inflation, and an amendment by Jimmy Pahun – Member of Parliament for Morbihan and great navigator, as everyone knows – aiming to perpetuate the financing of the national rescue society at sea – SNSM. The second priority of this budget is the ecological transition. In particular, the text provides for the removal of the exemption for non-road diesel, a welcome measure and the conclusion of a long consultation with the sectors concerned, which should serve as an example of how to build the ecological transition not against, but with the companies and sectors concerned. Thus, the phasing out of the GNR will be accompanied by significant compensations:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u121	I confirm it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u122	... price impact on current contracts, eligibility for the VAT compensation fund – VATF – for community network maintenance work, increase in community advance to SMEs, depreciation for rolling stock without GNR. In the same spirit, we propose, by amendment, to programme the gradual end of derogations which are harmful to the environment. We need to set ambitious targets and, together with the actors in the sectors concerned, chart ways of achieving this convergence. The conversion of the energy transition tax credit – ISCED – into a premium will, we hope, speed up the isolation of housing. We will propose to extend the ISCED to the vegetation of roofs and facades, the many benefits of which are known, and to allocate the exempt amounts from the disposals of buildings to the energy renovation of the buildings. Finally, we welcome the ban on the granting of State guarantees on foreign trade for coal research, extraction and production. And we welcome, of course, the €3 billion increase in funding for the ecological transition and transport. Among the other proposals that we are defending and which we hope will find thanks to you, I will mention the experiment of a tax reduction for beekeepers, or the best treatment of certain biofuels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u123	The amendment had to be voted on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u124	Our colleague Jean-Paul Mattei will speak on another major part of the budget: local government revenues. In conclusion, the members of the MODEM and related groups welcome the fact that this finance bill focuses on tax justice and the ecological transition, and will be committed to enriching it with proposals along the same lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u125	Your proposals are minimalistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u126	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Mr rapporteur-general, since this third finance bill must be that of maturity, it is my turn, on behalf of the members of the MODEM Group, to thank you for your work, your attention, your ecumenism and your verve, and to wish you a happy birthday.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u128	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u129	With this finance bill for 2020, you want to open Act II of the quinquennium, after the serious reminders to the reason that the French have inflicted on you. Is it a real intention or an act of communication on your part? That is what our hundreds of hours of debate will reveal by the end of December. For the members of the Socialist and Related Group, and for the reading of the documents you have given us, there is no Act II of the quinquennium because you do not change economic policy. I know in advance that you are going to turn that statement aside, as you swept our alerts on the occasion of the examination of the previous two finance bills. If you had taken these alerts into account, you would not have undergone the movement of the yellow vests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u130	A little modesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u131	If you had tested our purchasing power simulator – the socialists.fr/simulator – you would immediately have realized the enormity of the increase in energy taxes you were putting in place. We discussed the two previous finance bills in a constructive spirit. We had even produced two alternative budgets, in order to avoid some of the pitfalls on which you stumbled. You have not taken much into account, apart from a few amendments relating to local and regional authorities. Ministers, two years after you took office, let me put before you some of the realities that flow from your decisions and those of your majority. First, let's talk about the reform of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax. You explained that these choices would support economic growth. What about it? It fell from 2.2% in 2017 to 1.4% in 2019, and even 1.3% in 2020 if we refer to the finance bill we are looking at. I already hear you say that this is the fault of the international situation. Of course, it plays a role, but as we export less than other countries, we are less subject to changes in economic conditions than others. You also explained to us that the removal of the ISF would encourage an increase in investment in SMEs. But I give you three figures that show that this investment has declined. The first one comes from the Public Investment Bank, which noted in a September report a 8% decline in investment in SMEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u132	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u133	The second one is provided by the French association of financial management and by France Invest, which observe in 2018 a decrease of 67% compared to 2017 – I said 67%! – collection of PIFs – local investment funds, whose assets are composed of at least 70% French SMEs – and FCPIs – mutual investment funds in innovation, invested in SMEs with at least 2000 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u134	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u135	The third and final figure comes from the Senate's evaluation report, which shows a 38% drop in personal tax investments to the capital of solidarity companies. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your policy was to relaunch investment in SMEs. We didn't see anything, nada!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u136	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u137	The numbers are here. You can say they're fake, you may not look at them, but they're here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u138	They're not complete!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u139	They may not be complete, but they are there: there is a 67% drop in collections between 2017 and 2018! But you can still claim that this does not exist, as you claimed last year that my figures on the increase in energy taxes were false. And what did the yellow vests tell you?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u140	It's demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u141	To say that things don't exist when they're real, measured and encrypted is complicated. After two years of exercise, we are starting to have indicators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u142	We'll give you our numbers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u143	Take the case of a student who received, until June 2017, 250 euros of personalized housing assistance – APL – per month. You've made three decisions that have had consequences for him. In August 2017, you made him lose 5 euros, then you decided not to revalue the APLs for the first time in January 2018, then a second time in January 2019. In total, these decisions have resulted in a cumulative loss of 220 euros of purchasing power since 1 September 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u144	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u145	You can always say that the addition is wrong: if you want, we will do it again together. Now, let's take the case of the 22 million French people who do not pay income tax, that is, single people whose income is less than 1217 euros per month, and households who earn less than 2294 euros per month. These 22 million French will not see the color of your income tax reduction! They will not benefit from a single euro of additional purchasing power!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u146	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u147	Because they are not subject to income tax, the tax cut comes under their noses. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot say that we are rich with 1217 euros a month!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u148	You're the only one who says it! We don't say that at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u149	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Let us finally take the case of pensioners. In 2018, almost 8 million of them lost on average 600 euros of purchasing power in a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u150	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u151	That is what is written in the rapporteur-general's report! I always read this report, it's exciting. So you can try to explain that these numbers are wrong, but it's going to be difficult. In 2019, you corrected the trend a little, under the pressure of the yellow vests, but you have to make some observations. For example, the 10 million pensioners receiving less than 2000 euros of income per month lose on average 230 euros of purchasing power, due to the non-revalorisation of pensions. And for the 4.2 million whose income is more than 2000 euros per month – I'm talking for a single person – the loss of purchasing power will be around 800 euros per year! In 2020, you planned to deprive 700000 pensioners of the benefit of an existing defiscalisation; The Prime Minister has declined, but this measure is still included in section 79 of the Finance Bill. To remove it, you will have to find 300 million euros of additional savings. Let us come to the reduction of the housing tax. This is your leitmotiv: everything is resolved by the "removal" of the housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u152	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u153	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] What is wrong, precisely, is to speak of abolition: it is a pseudo-deletion, because in reality you are replacing a local tax with a national tax. Since the State will compensate for the loss of the housing tax for the municipalities, this is not an abolition, but a replacement by another tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u154	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u155	You're more technical than Bercy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u156	Listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, don't get mad! The numbers are stubborn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u157	You fix them to your sauce!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to Mrs Rabault!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u159	You are also talking about justice, and I thank the Minister for Action and Public Accounts for providing us with a great Excel file, in which we find data on all the municipalities. Let us take Compans, a commune of 700 inhabitants of Seine-et-Marne, whose mayor is a communist. Its inhabitants, if they are eligible for the reduction of the housing tax – this is the case for 80% of French people – will benefit from a cheque of 97 euros. But those who live in Seals will get 778 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u160	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u161	We don't give examples like that, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u162	I can quote many other examples, the file has 35,000 communes! Thus, the inhabitants of Levallois-Perret will recover 646 euros a year, while in Lozère the average annual gain will be 280 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u163	It's called justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u164	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movement]] And all this will be financed by a national tax, paid by all the French! Ladies and gentlemen, injustice is going up sharply! And I'm not even talking about the 5 million households that don't pay the housing tax: these will have nothing at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u165	And you, what have you proposed for ten years?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u166	You take numbers and you mix everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u167	Don't get mad! I don't understand that the numbers make you so upset. They're real though. These are those of the minister and the rapporteur-general, so tell them that their figures are wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u168	Please, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u169	With regard to the ecological transition, everyone is talking about the 7 million dwellings that are classified as thermal colanders. However, the finance project does not include anything to renovate them. Nothing. Nothing! So implement a renovation plan of 700000 housing units per year! We will then see significant results in terms of CO emissions – I would remind you that the building sector accounts for 40% of total emissions. I do not go back to the trajectory of public finances, which will be the subject of one of my amendments, but I conclude on a final point relating to economic pilotage. Mr Darmanin, this summer you welcomed the fact that interest rates are negative. Of course, we are all happy to pay EUR 2 billion less than the debt burden. But last week I went to Berlin to meet with your counterparts, and there everyone is starting to worry about these negative rates: it means "no future" for Europe! This means that investors see us as two countries that are no longer able to generate value! It's extremely serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u170	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u171	In the face of this situation, a very powerful investment dynamic is needed. Otherwise, the first two economies of the euro area and the Union will lock our continent into an economic "no future".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u172	On this point, we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u173	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, we will not support your Finance Bill for 2020. We hope, however, that the discussion will make some progress. Maybe this year, you'll listen to us a little bit! Read the Official Journal of the debates of the PLF for 2019, it is very precise: a lot of what we told you, you later heard it in the mouth of the yellow vests!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u174	We can also find in the Official Journal what you said between 2012 and 2017: we have a good chance of having fun!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u175	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u176	Mr General, I wish you a happy birthday. We are starting today to review the Finance Bill for 2020. A finance bill is not just a budget text, but a strong political act. This PLF for 2020 marks the decisive choices for Act II of the quinquennium. Before dealing with the concrete measures contained in the first part of the text, I want to focus for a moment on the framing and assumptions of the construction of the state budget. It was based on a growth assumption of 1.3% in 2020. As things stand, this forecast is indeed "perceiveable", as the High Council for Public Finance points out, but it does not take into account the possibility of a Brexit without agreement, the consequences of which are estimated to have a negative impact of 0.5 to 0.6 points of GDP. In view of this particular context, but also of an increasingly uncertain situation with the Sino-American trade war and the unrest in the Middle East, it seems to us that it would have been preferable to adopt a more prudent construction of this budget with a more cautious growth forecast as well. With regard to the general balance of the budget, the government deficit now stands at 2.2% of GDP, a marked improvement over 2019, but the share of the government deficit stands at EUR 93.1 billion. Translated more simply, this means that almost one in four euro spent by the state is financed by debt. The public debt situation remains as worrying, with an extremely high level of 98.7 per cent of GDP in 2020. Of course, we may be glad that the debt does not grow any more, but we should not be content with this stabilization, which is the opposite of the five-point reduction expected in the public finance programming law for the years 2018 to 2022. It seems to us important to bear in mind the right principle expressed by the President of the Republic at the beginning of his quinquennium, "debt is tax squared", to step up our efforts to control our public spending. Unfortunately, we have the impression of repeating ourselves to each budget text, but this lack of structural effort on public expenditure remains our great weakness. I would like to reiterate that we are ready to assist you in the reflections carried out in the framework of CAP 2022. But today, we no longer really know what is going on with this major work of transforming public action for better public service and more efficient public spending. Perhaps, ministers, could you give us a step point on this, and even a first assessment? Let me turn to the concrete measures in the finance bill. The IDU, Action and Independent Group has with the majority many commonalities regarding the objectives to be achieved. First of all, I am thinking of the fact that the budget, which has been under way since the beginning of the quinquennium, has continued to grow. I want to thank you again, Mr. Darmanin. Then there is the strong choice of reducing the tax burden for households and businesses. With these measures, work will pay more, which is a major challenge for our society. The €5 billion reduction in income tax will allow the 17 million tax households located in the first two tranches of the scale to regain purchasing power. This decline is accompanied by a more gradual introduction into the tax system, which goes in the direction of valuing work. We also welcome the continuation of the corporate tax reduction target, which will reach 25 per cent by 2022 despite the two successive postponements. We really hope that you will stand on this point. However, French companies suffer from a real handicap due to the burden of production taxes. Act II of the quinquennium, of which this PLF bears the mark, would have required a strong signal in favour of the competitiveness of our companies, expressed by a downward trajectory of production taxes. Finally, there is the effort to simplify taxes, with the removal of small taxes and small tax niches. We will support a large part of the measures that you propose and will defend several amendments in the sense of "tax household". Efforts will have to be continued, but it is really complicated for parliamentarians to have the necessary assessment of these taxes and niches. However, we all find ourselves around the objective of fiscal clarification. This is a major and long-term issue, because our fellow citizens no longer accept certain aberrations. The most well-known and perhaps most sensitive is the imposition of VAT on certain taxes and contributions on energy. How can one understand that one pays a tax on a tax? Patricia Lemoine will speak later on the major issue of local taxation, but on all the points I have mentioned, this budget responds to the current challenges: that of purchasing power, that of valuing labour, that of restoring the necessary link between citizens and the taxes they pay through the effort of clarification. I shall, however, make a clear statement on the preparation of the future, and in particular on the ecological transition. We agree on the need to provide a new impetus in order to respect our climate ambitions, but it is with pragmatism and pedagogy that we must act: to accompany rather than punish, here is our philosophy on this subject. However, the measures proposed in this finance bill do not seem to be part of a comprehensive and readable strategy. They concern some very specific sectors and save others without really knowing why. In this respect, the report of the Council on compulsory levies stresses the need to include carbon taxation in an overall strategy, instead of an impressionist policy with small touches. We will have an opportunity to discuss it, but I shall nevertheless mention a few examples. The decline in the reimbursement of the ICTPE, which benefits the road transport sector, and the removal of tax advantages on non-road diesel fuel, are exacerbating tensions in this sector of activity. Of course, the international competitors of French companies, who are just as much on our roads, will escape this new tax burden. So what will be the impact of this decision on the environment and the preservation of air? Is this not a purely performance measure? With regard to the energy transition tax credit, the policy of energy renovation of housing must remain a priority for all citizens. Members of the IDU, Action and Independent Group support the transformation of ISCED into a premium, but I do not understand some other choices, such as the exclusion of certain households or the exclusion of certain energy efficient devices for certain households. Since 2017, the ISCED provisions have been constantly amended. No one trusts anymore, even though the support of owners in improving the energy performance of housing is more than necessary. The third concrete example is the reduction in the resources of chambers of agriculture and water agencies, while the action of these actors is essential for the ecological transition and the preservation of resources in our territories. We agree on the need for a change of model for the energy transition, but we wonder about the nature you want to give it, as well as the accompanying tools you will foresee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u177	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Seneca said: "There is no favorable wind for him who knows not what port he wants to arrive in." At the time of consideration of this first part of the finance bill, I hope that the work that will begin will allow us to better define the destination. This is the path France will take for the coming year and will be a condition for the success of Act II of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u179	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u180	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u181	I will leave it to Charles de Courson to explain to you the position of the Libertés et territoires group on the merits. So I will not stress the narrow margins of growth at almost 1%, nor the mortgages of low interest rates and the instability of oil supply, the global economic situation and the Brexit perspective, just as I will not mention the perplexity of the local tax revolution. Instead, I would like to stress the ecological aspect. There is no need to recall the need to promote sustainable development and how difficult this task is. Last June, in this rostrum, the Prime Minister launched Act II of the quinquennium and proclaimed that "the next twelve months will be those of ecological acceleration". On the occasion of the presentation of the PLF, which was to embody this turning point, a small booklet, opportunely adorned with green, was even published, bringing together all the measures contributing to the ecological transition. However, reality seems to be more contrasted and ambition evaporated on the altar of budgetary arbitration. It is true that the appropriations allocated to the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" are up by 1 per cent. It's an effort, but will it be enough to initiate a turn? It is all the more doubtful that this increase is accompanied by the loss of nearly 2000 full-time equivalents. What missions will be affected by this decline? Will the control of the sites classified Seveso, which unfortunately reminds us of the flaws, have to suffer from it? We're asking the question. But the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", we know, is only the emerging part of environmental policy. In the area of energy renewal, the Government is displaying its ambitions through the gradual transformation of ISCED into a bonus. It is positive to provide more support to modest households, although the remainder will remain significant. We regret the reduction of EUR 800 million for the year 2020 in the budget allocated to the scheme, whose continuous changes are also detrimental to its readability and effectiveness. It is thus to be feared that we will move further away from the target of 500,000 renovated dwellings per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u182	We're far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u183	The Libertés et territoires Group has proposed improvements in order to reinstate the ninth and tenth deciles or to open the scheme to landlords. We regret, more generally, that the housing sector, again this year, is the main driver of savings, particularly in view of the difficulties encountered in this area. In the field of energy, we have pointed out the shortcomings of the Energy and Climate Act. Despite an increase of €350 million in the Chaleur Fund, accruing from the multi-annual energy programming – EPP – we regret that this PLF does not provide for an increase in the budget of the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME. With regard to sustainable mobility, improvements, which may prove to be insufficient, have been made with the Mobility Guidance Act. The PLF provides for an increase in credits for the car bonus and a tightening of the malus. It should also be noted that the resources of the Transport Infrastructure Financing Agency will be increased...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u184	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u185	...through, in particular, eco-contribution on airline tickets and a reduction of 2 cents in the partial reimbursement of the TICEP on diesel. As for the fair taxation of carbon, the Government seems to be tetanized by the fear of a new movement of yellow vests. Mr. Darmanin, who don't listen to me,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u186	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u187	... you said two weeks ago that the carbon tax would not change by 2022. However, the Council of Compulsory Levies believes that it is an effective lever for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We share this analysis: without this leverage, how can we achieve the carbon-neutral objectives? More broadly, public investment is essential to this ecological shift, but the shortfall is estimated to be between €7 and €9 billion. By the way, $7 billion is the result of the housing tax of the 20 per cent of the most affluent households that you are about to remove. What lessons can be learned from this PLF? That the ecological and solidarity transition, which we call for, will not take place in 2020. We regret it all the more because it is not only an imperative in the face of the climate and environmental emergency, but also a powerful driver of innovation and growth for our territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I repeat: investment in renewable energy is not only essential, but it is one of the few levers available to reduce the trade deficit and initiate healthy growth. Let these virtues be translated into the finance bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u188	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u189	I wish you a happy birthday, Mr Giraud, and I would like to pay tribute, despite our disagreements, to the work you have done with bonhomy, tolerance and a constructive spirit: your burden will be heavy for your successor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u190	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u191	I'll be less pleasant, you know, with MM. Ministers, because I consider this finance bill to be that of inequality, of the weakening of the state and of a bad economic affair for the country. I understand, Mr. Darmanin, that with the collection of income tax at source over 12 months this year, your tax cuts would not be reflected in the amount of revenue. Nevertheless, in the gross figures, there will be a decline in the resources of the State. Above all, you once again gain equality in the face of tax by undermining the redistribution par excellence of income tax, in order to reserve ever more tax gifts to the richest, or at least to preserve those you have already given them in recent years, masked under lines of communication. The case of the housing tax is typical in this respect: you want us to vote for its removal for the 20% of the most affluent households. Presented as a tax reduction, this measure sounds, in the ear, like the best news in the world. But, as I have just pointed out, it concerns only the 20% of the most affluent taxpayers and will represent a shortfall of EUR 8 billion to be collected, damaging to the general interest and to the autonomy of the communities, which could play on this tax. You could have solved the problem of the inequality of the housing tax and revised the rental bases. Instead, you throw the baby away with the bath water. In the future, this poorly structured and sloppy reform – we lack information to judge in detail its quality – is likely to weigh heavily on the budget of the state and the communities. The decline in income tax, another major flagship measure, poses the same problems. Instead of tackling VAT, an unfair tax that equals debt and billionaire, the Government is weakening income tax, presenting its decision as a tax justice measure for the middle classes. However, this will cost the community €5 billion, while half of the French will not benefit from it. I would also point out to Mr Le Maire, who explained earlier, for a reason that I am not aware of, that reducing income taxes is to promote income from work, that half of the French do not pay this tax, even if they have a job. More generally, in the two tranches affected by this tax reduction are single persons receiving up to €6,700 per month, and couples with three children receiving €27,000 per month. I therefore do not think that this reduction was the country's most crucial tax emergency. It would have been better, as we have been proposing for years, to base income tax on fourteen tranches: in addition to being fairer, this would reduce the burden on the middle classes and generate EUR 10 billion in additional revenue. And how do you justify that this reduction in income tax comes in addition to the many other billions of gifts to the richest and big companies, granted since the beginning of the quinquennium and the amount of which continues to increase? In total, the removal of the ISF, the flat tax and the reduction of corporate tax will have cost the State €30 billion by the end of 2019. This cost is not even compensated by more just social measures or by the removal of unnecessary or even harmful tax niches, even as you announced it with a great boost of advertising: only 600 million euros in fact should be recovered out of the 100 billion that tax niches represent. As for the research tax credit, I invite Mr Le Maire, who has claimed the merits, to refer to Joël Giraud's excellent reflections, which are even more critical than those of the Court of Auditors. So you weaken the state in a significant way. Mr Le Maire brazenly said that he was proud that no government had cut public spending so much, while Mr Darmanin welcomed the fact that he had avoided EUR 40 billion in expenditure. But this economy will have a negative impact on climate protection and the general interest. Basic common sense should have led you to save at least the most modest ability to invest and the ecological transition. Your finance bill provides for the abolition of 1,073 full-time equivalent positions in 2020, and of 5,000 by the end of the quinquennium, at the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. The unions, which I recently interviewed for my report and which created a "defence board" of the Department of Ecology, all described it as an endangered department and were concerned about the widening gap between the stated objectives and the means allocated to achieve them. So, Mr Darmanin, if you would listen to me – I was unable to tell Mrs Borne during the last questions to the Government – I ask you to stop the crowds, to use a nice word, or, to use a mean word, lies. This increase is due to the recovery of SNCF's debt – which is not a contribution to the budget – and to the transfer of the premium to clean vehicles – which is reflected in the 174 "Energy, climate and post-mines" programme this year. Not an extra cent of euro is therefore foreseen: it is, as usual, a smoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u192	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u193	No, it's not wrong and I invite you to check: you will find the information in your own finance bill and, soon, in my report. In short, we are asking to do more and more with fewer people and money. This is obviously not without consequences. We could ask ourselves for a while what impact these billions minus here or there have in concrete terms on the lives of the French, but the recent example of Lubrizol makes it possible to make a quick demonstration of it. The Directorate-General for Risk Prevention has seen its staff and those of its incumbent operators decline for years. According to the Deputy Director General, annual controls have been divided by two in fifteen years; He estimates that 200 inspectors are missing – again, you can check his comments in the reports. The sites are therefore less and less controlled: from next year onwards, since there will be even fewer full-time equivalents, they have chosen – I understand them – to consider the Seveso establishments as priorities, which will lead to no longer controlling the gas stations and less controlling the other sites. The Industrial Risk and Pollution Analysis Office of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition estimated that the number of industrial accidents increased by 34% between 2016 and 2018. If you do not see the correlation between this figure and the decrease in the controls of establishments at risk, we do not speak the same language. The 2020 budget is therefore not only inadequate or very unfair: it is dangerous, worrying, and absurd economically and ecologically. I'd like to talk macroeconomics for two minutes. Interest rates are now very low, even negative: this is the ideal time to invest. It is a measure of common sense, in favour of the general interest in the long term, even the most liberal economists agree to say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u194	Yes! Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u195	I have seen that Mr Le Maire believes that the Germans are showing too much budgetary rigour. Why do you think what's bad for the Germans wouldn't be bad for us? They're always trying to scare us with the debt. We must stop saying that debt accounts for 98% of GDP: we must consider what it costs every year, not over the entire repayment period! In one year, the interest on the debt amounts to EUR 42.1 billion for the State, and the debt service, i.e. the total cost, EUR 130 billion. Let us stop being afraid by pretending that every year we have to repay almost all of this country's GDP: that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u196	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u197	We can say and repeat this: ecological debt is the only one we should not bequeath to future generations – let us not confuse with sovereign debt. We have the means to invest much more; 100 billion would have to be allocated to the ecological transition. Valérie Rabault mentioned thermal insulation earlier: this is an example of what I call good debt. Similarly, when you invest in the OTP, it generates activity, contributions, and tax revenues. In the medium to long term, the debt consequences will be even good. On the other hand, there is a bad debt: for example, the 40 billion granted to the CICE – which does not allow or very few job creations – or the elimination of the ISF. There, we see measures that increase the debt and do not serve the general interest in any way. Financing a major investment plan is not our only proposal. There are fair, returnable and immediately applicable tax measures. I am also defending some of them together with a member of your majority, Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, co-rapporteur with me of the mission to inform on universal taxation. Thus we propose measures concerning tax exile: to restore and strengthen the exit tax, to create a tax extended to countries with privileged taxation – which I call a targeted universal tax – to charge, as Mr Darmanin and the rapporteur-general have mentioned, heads of companies who are domiciled abroad but derive their wealth from companies located in France, with a threshold of 250,000 euros. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] For this last amendment, as for the others in our group, I hope that our colleagues in the majority will be able to listen to us and that they will not come back to what we voted in the Committee on Finance, in particular the rejection of the regionalisation of the agricultural chambers and the reduction of the tax paid to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u198	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u199	I shall begin like all the other speakers, Mr General: live the sixties! Happy birthday! (Laughter) Another anniversary is looming, more serious: November 17, 2018 began the first weekend of mobilization of yellow vests, caused by the introduction of a carbon tax. It was the drop of too much water, the one added to the increase of the CSG for pensioners and to the wage freeze in the public as well as in the private sector, but always with gifts to the richest, such as the suppression of the ISF. For months, anger has risen, from all places and from all professions. Tax justice, social justice, climate emergency: these are the legitimate demands of our citizens. Your budget should have met these requirements. But no, the project that you are presenting to us, on the contrary, respects your dogma, imposed by the European treaties: the reduction of public expenditure! Without ambition, and not at all up to the challenges we face. You are selling us this budget, minister, with a master word: the reduction of taxes. Presented like this, the offer seems attractive. But behind a flashing communication is a completely different reality. The French know this well, when the bodyshell is a little too beautiful, it is prudent to take a look at the engine. First, this reduction in taxes is synonymous with significant savings: if all taxes fall, including those of the richest, there will necessarily be less money in the state's coffers, which translates into new savings imposed on our public services and less money to respond to social and climate emergencies. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Moreover, when you announce that you want to lower taxes, the French must know that you are going to lower the taxes of the richest. Act III of your budget is Act III of the budget of the rich! I am thinking of the multinationals, the large groups with more than 250 million turnovers, the kings of tax optimisation, who will see their corporate tax rates drop while they already benefit shamefully from the competitiveness and employment tax credit, the research tax credit and other exemptions from social contributions that they do not need – in any case not as much as our SMEs. These are again billions of euros paid without conditions, while some of these major groups continue to relocate their factories abroad, to low-cost countries of production: Renault, Peugeot, Ford, Alstom, General Electric and company, it is the corporate tax of these major groups that you will decrease! Don't say no, it's reality. This new gift for capital actually represents 2.5 billion euros less for our budget, for our hospitals, our pensioners, our municipalities, the ecological transition. A tax-free society does not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u200	It's a company without companies! And without work!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u201	And the first to suffer from this policy are the most modest. The proof is that you are proposing to lower income taxes by €5 billion. This is good for those who will benefit from it, but, as you do not increase the tax on the upper tranches, who will pay those 5 billion euros? It is all of us, including the 22 million of our fellow citizens who do not pay income tax and therefore will not benefit from the fall!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u202	They have benefited from other measures!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u203	They'll pay! And you propose to save on health, on housing, on unemployment insurance and therefore on the backs of the unemployed, on the APLs and therefore on the backs of families and students, on our local public services with the closure of the municipal treasury...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u204	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u205	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u206	We had the medical desert, we'll have the tax desert. And in addition you sell our family jewels, with the privatization of the Aéroports de Paris and French gaming groups. In short, what you give on one side, you take it back from the other, as you have been doing for two and a half years. Yet this question of purchasing power, wages and pensions is central! Yes, the work has to pay off. But for you, it must not cost capital. According to your design, in order for work to pay, it is necessary to pass through the Family Allowance Fund, through the activity premium; via the State, through tax cuts; by means of social security, by means of reduction of contributions. In short, it is to national solidarity, that is to say, to pay these wage increases. So yes, work must pay, but it is up to companies to pay – by sharing more the wealth we produce, the added value, and with a gross wage that increases! With your policy, the 500 richest families in France have seen their wealth increase from 570 billion euros to 700 billion euros in two years. Since you came to power, with your gifts, their fortune has increased by 22%! We ask for the same thing for salaries and pensions: 22% increase! This is a strong measure for a job that pays! That is how we will put gasoline back into the engine of the real economy, rather than promoting, as you do, speculation with gifts such as the removal of the ISF or the introduction of the flat tax, this tax shield that does not say its name for those who pay in financial revenues. In fact, we doubted, this famous flat tax has had a boon effect. It is confirmed that managers paid in dividends rather than wages. These tax optimisation practices, which we had denounced in advance, have disastrous effects on the financing of social security. Tax justice is our own compass: that is why we will propose the restoration of the ISF as well as a truly progressive 11- tranche income tax so that the small ones pay small and the big ones pay more, with the introduction of a 48% tranche. Our proposal is balanced. It does not make France's budget lose one euro – unlike yours – with a threshold of 3900 euros. Below, taxpayers will pay less, above, they will pay more! We also propose to improve the progressivity of corporate tax, to help small businesses...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u207	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u208	... in the face of the domination of large groups, down from your new corporate tax reduction favourable to multinationals and without consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u209	Come on! 100% taxes for multinationals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u210	We propose the reduction of VAT on basic necessities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u211	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u212	We also propose the collection at source of the profits of multinationals, the only effective tool to combat tax havens and tax fraud. Because the OECD's global tax proposals in this area are still far from being implemented, and will also affect only a portion of companies, including GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon. That's not enough! As long as tax havens are not fought, there will always be white-collar offenders to take advantage of them. [[Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Sabine Rubin applaud]] Between us, Mr Minister, when we discover that Switzerland came out last week from the grey list of tax havens, we can doubt the European Union's willingness to lead this fight. It's like we pulled Pablo Escobar out of the drug dealer list!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u213	It's chic for our Swiss friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u214	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u215	It's slightly exaggerated...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u216	It's the same! Kif-kif bulldozer! If, at least, on this subject, you could approve our amendment to the tax residence of business leaders, it would be a small gesture, a good thing. Retaining the Communist MEPs' amendment would even be a revolutionary gesture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u217	You know me...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u218	We also propose to invest in our public services, especially for health, with a major hospital plan that we will present next week. We also want an ambitious plan for the rural world, which has been the subject of new proposals by our colleagues Dufrègne and Mattei – a sector that suffers from the desertification of its public services and feels attacked, through its farmers, accused of all the evils. Tax capital, not the rural world! The disappearance of public services in the communes affects both villages and large cities. We therefore propose, by an amendment, to devote an additional EUR 5 billion to our communes, in order to give the majorities elected in 2020 new means to meet the needs of their inhabitants. That is what our communes expect. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For the moment, everyone fears the disappearance of the housing tax. The provisions of this budget confirm these fears. Firstly, this measure will cost EUR 7 billion with the exemption of the richest 20% alone. Yes, thanks to you, Mr Darmanin, Bernard Arnault, whom you have already exempted from ISF, will soon receive a final gift from you: he will also be exempt from housing tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u219	He'll pay for his secondary residences!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u220	Bravo, he's happy, he got a little present. Did he really need it? But it is more serious: by losing the housing tax, the municipalities lose the way to levy a large tax which the mayors had the control to finance their projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u221	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u222	They are now dependent on compensation mechanisms whose contours are still unclear. This is a major attack on our communes, on mayors and municipal councils, which still have the confidence of our fellow citizens. In addition, you are attacking our departments by proposing to transfer a share of the departmental property tax to the municipalities, the departments being compensated by VAT. Between us, what a DIY! To dress Paul, the communes, you undress Peter, the departments. Tomorrow, the firefighters will protest to demand 16,000 jobs in order to fulfill their missions. How will departments respond to their requests? Finally, when it comes to environmental emergencies, where is your policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u223	Did you come out with your speech last year?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u224	While our country is lagging behind its commitments in terms of CO emissions, you prefer to reduce the means used for the ecological transition, whether for the thermal renovation of housing, the investment in public transport or the support of our farmers. One example is that in order to achieve our climate goals, 7 million homes have to be renovated, which are real heat sinks, a rate of at least 700000 homes per year. We are at 250,000 renovations, of which only 40,000 complete renovations! We're late. We should put the means in place. However, the amount of the tax credit for this purpose, which will become a bonus next year – which is a step forward – will unfortunately fall from 900 million euros in 2019 to 800 million in 2020! So, no, Mr Darmanin, I did not come out of my speech last year because, if your goal remains the same, the means you devote to it are diminishing. Soon it will be too late for the planet: with your budget, it will take twenty years to reach our goal! Another example: there is so little in your budget to invest massively in rail transport, nothing or so little for freight, to improve passenger transport with more services and cheaper tickets! With the 400 million euros more than you plan for our railway infrastructure, we are far from the extra billion a year that we would need to develop the rail, maintain the railways, provide our regions with the means to achieve a quality TER or re-launch, for example, the train of the early ones, threatened! To fulfil all your commitments, we propose a concrete way, to German: to create a special fund...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u225	And come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u226	... financed directly by the European Central Bank – it is possible – with a loan at a negative rate, thanks to which, at the end, one would earn money,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u227	[[Smile]] Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u228	[[Laughs]] ...and by private investors. This fund, with EUR 100 billion, would enable us to respond to these emergencies as soon as next year. It's called cash injection, "inyección de liquidez", as the professor says in the superb series La casa de Papel, which you should look at because it touches closely on the subject that is taking us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u229	You're watching too much TV!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u230	By injecting liquidity into the economy, we could have increased our efforts by 2020 in all the areas I have mentioned, and we propose that you do so with this special fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u231	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] In this case, it's the Chernobyl series!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u232	A little calm, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u233	As of next year, we could have maintained these thousands of kilometres of railway and revived all these lines of the daily life that have been deleted or threatened. We could have made the necessary investments to revive our large seaports rather than transfer them to the regions. We could have helped the regions to invest in the regional network so that the trains could drive and arrive on time, simply, and ensure that the French preferred the train over the car. We could have helped agglomerations improve their range of public transport and develop free transport. We could have accompanied our farmers to help them change their production patterns while remaining competitive. These are ambitious projects, plans for the future! Minister, how are we going to keep our climate targets with your budget? We're going to lose another year, that's what's going to happen, and you're going to bear the heavy responsibility! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Olivia Gregoire and Nadia Hai also applaud]] What Communist and Republican MPs want for France and the French in the coming years is simply, instead of distributing the crumbs of an increasingly small cake, to change the cake, to change the recipe. This is the only way to achieve our climate goals as well as to meet the demand for social justice and tax justice expressed by our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u234	[[Laughs]] "Congratulation Berlin! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u235	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u236	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u237	We are starting the discussion of the Finance Bill for 2020. It is a budget of coherence and balance. Indeed, this 2020 budget is fully compatible with what our majority wants in tax policy. We were elected to revive our country around activity and employment and to resuscitate the link between our entrepreneurs and our assets in order to guarantee the republican contract, its consubstantial freedoms and its solidarity so necessary. To do this, we have announced and allowed the return of margins for our economic actors: this is what we have achieved since Budget 2018. Indeed, we have seen for years that companies have had difficulty investing and hiring, given the weight of compulsory levies. The growth and investment figures announced earlier by Bruno Le Maire show that our policy is bearing fruit, despite a rather complicated international context. We have put in place a competitiveness policy by ensuring the demanding assessment of investment-friendly measures and by effectively limiting the possibilities of escaping tax, which has become more legible again, through anti-fraud measures. It is the object of the first financial laws of this quinquennium and of the anti-fraud law, which has already begun to produce very concrete effects. In this finance bill for 2020, we consolidate our action on all the tables: we substantially ease the tax note for the middle classes and we reaffirm the seriousness of the budget. Yes, we lighten the low scale of income tax, so entry into income tax for the most modest and middle classes. And we are neutralizing the effects of this decline on high incomes, contrary to what I heard last week from some of you in the Finance Committee. This represents 5 billion tax cuts and 300 euros per year on average per household, which will gradually appear on the payroll of our citizens in January. I also thank the Minister for Action and Public Accounts for his very precise demonstration: yes, taxes paid on an individual basis decrease, and revenues increase...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u238	What magicians!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u239	... thanks in particular to the dynamism of our economy. Such a reduction in income tax will stimulate the economic fabric by strengthening purchasing power. We are working to increase the financial margins of households in France, in order to catch up with the effects of years of wage moderation, the atonement of wages having prevented the emancipation of people and territories that are failing, who are waiting for economic recovery. I would point out that households not subject to income tax, much of which has been discussed since the beginning of this debate, have benefited from various measures such as activity premium, the defiance of overtime and exceptional bonuses. I am sure that the efforts made by the public authorities through our decisions will eventually be felt not only by employers but also by employee representatives. On the other hand, the PACTE law – I welcome our colleague Olivia Grégoire here – opens wide the possibilities for better remuneration, making it possible to increase efficiency and competitiveness. It is up to the social partners to seize this opportunity. Our policy is marked by serious budgetary measures: we reduce the deficit, control debt developments and strengthen our support for local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u240	They're in the bone! We'll be able to make a broth soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u241	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We give them modernised and rational financial resources. Our other excellent colleague and chairman of the delegation to local authorities Jean-René Cazeneuve will talk about it better than I do. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – "Yes! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] I hear our colleagues in the Republicans calling for budget cuts, those who, in ten years, made the debt grow exponentially!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u242	It's not at all comparable, the context was very different, it was the crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u243	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These same colleagues, throughout the review of this bill, will propose to expand the deficit and the debt, by defending the creation of tax niches of all kinds: on income tax, on corporate tax, VAT, inheritance tax, property tax, local taxes, and I'm going over it... If we accepted the amendments – more than a thousand – that they defend, with the waterways that this would cause in the various taxes, the budget would be sunk and the tax system would become even more illegible. This is the opposite of what we want to do: to lower rates, to clean up the base of compulsory levies, to carry out a simple policy that is legible and verifiable by Parliament. Finally, the seriousness of our policy is reflected in our ambition to reform international taxation. The draft finance law sets out several measures for the transposition of anti-optimisation directives, which are ambitious and result from several years of French negotiations in Community and multilateral bodies. France, as a leader in the fight against aggressive international tax optimisation, has also courageously pushed for digital taxation, a proposal that is on its way to the OECD. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thus, because it reflects a requirement of seriousness and consistency, our majority can show strong support for the 2020 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u244	And happy birthday!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u245	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u246	Finally! We're going to hear a language of truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u247	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs. Dalloz is a specialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u248	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] According to the BVA Institute's latest barometer, 81% of French people believe that the 2020 budget will have no positive impact on their purchasing power. They are right, because they are not fooled by the big strings of the Government's communication. "Historical", "unprecedented", "exceptional", "massive", "of never seen", there is no shortage of superlatives used to describe the tax cuts promised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u249	It bothers you, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u250	How can you say that the cuts are massive when they represent less than 1% of the total amount of compulsory levies?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u251	This is a completely different question, it is the social security budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u252	[[Marie-Christine Dalloz applauds]] Some EUR 9 billion out of more than EUR 1000 billion is not massive. The French also understood that such reductions would not be sustainable – they cannot be without savings. They understood that while our country has a public deficit much higher than the euro area average and a debt that reaches 100% of GDP, it is impossible to lower taxes without tackling the waste of public money. They understood that the Government is inflating tax cuts with helium. Among the 9 billion tax cuts promised to households is the decline in the CSG for modest pensioners, amounting to EUR 1.5 billion. However, it was the same government that had increased the CSG in 2018, before partially abandoning it for 2019. The Government therefore prides itself on reducing a tax that it has itself increased. He does not hesitate to count this as a decline. You cannot call a tax reduction the cancellation, under pressure from the opposition, of a tax increase that you had decided on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u253	Under the pressure of the street, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u254	Another example: $9 billion takes into account the removal of the ISF – and the creation of the IFI. The amount of this tax reduction has been overstated from €3.2 billion to €2.3 billion. However, in your calculations, you continue to indicate a decrease of 3.2 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u255	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u256	Thus, you artificially inflate the amount of tax reductions by EUR 1 billion. In addition, although you reduce taxes, the amount of compulsory levies is increasing. You yourself recognized this earlier: you reduce some taxes, but you increase their overall amount. Thus, as you lower income tax, the revenue from this tax increases by almost 3 billion euros. You cannot make us believe that this is due to the dynamics of taxed revenues or to the implementation of the source levy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u257	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u258	Minister, you take with one hand what you give with the other. The French are tired of this permanent tax cup game and this unarming tax obscurantism. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You understand that, in order to escape the fiscal revolt, the Government uses propaganda...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u259	Talk to Mrs. Dalloz about propaganda!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u260	... and seeks to anesthetize the French with fireworks of communication. The Republicans, on the other hand, want to treat French evil by thoroughly reforming our country. To deal with the French evil is to emerge from the infernal spiral of deficit, debt and taxes, which explains that France has the highest public deficit in the euro area in 2019 and the highest ratio of public expenditure to GDP in Europe. Today, the level of debt relative to GDP is 40 percentage points higher in France than it is in Germany. The gap is unprecedented between the finance bill that you are introducing and the public finance programming bill that you have passed, but that you are running out. It is not by abolishing 47 positions in the public service that you will solve the French evil, nor by putting under the carpet the debate on the retirement age. As if, by enchantment, one could extend the contribution period without affecting the retirement age. If you did, by the way, it would be an anti-student reform, since it would penalize all those who have studied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u261	That's very true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u262	Let us have the courage to abolish special schemes and align public pensions with those of the private sector. Let us have the courage to introduce a single social benefit or to restore the three days of deficit in the public service. You have understood that, as far as taxes, debt and deficit are concerned, the account is not there, and it is the French who are going to drink. The middle classes will only be partially eligible for the energy transition tax credit; the car malus will touch them with full whipping. To pensioners, you make it appear that the reindexation of pensions is a tax gift, whereas it will be a punishment for all those who, earning more than 2000 euros gross per month, will be excluded from it. Entrepreneurs could see their social contributions increase – for micro-enterprises, the increase could even take place by decree, we heard. They will also suffer the effects of the removal of tax niches such as that on non-road diesel and of planing on sponsorship or the specific flat-rate deduction. As for corporate tax, its downward trajectory is delayed; no production tax will decrease. All these measures will weaken the competitiveness of our companies. They demonstrate that the Government is abandoning supply policy. In short, your budget finds the good old reflexes of the left: for households, conditions of resources systematically attached to favourable measures; for companies, permanent planing; for local authorities, rampant guardianship and endangered fiscal autonomy. In the end, as you know, resource-based taxation concentrates on the middle-class wage earners, those who always pay everything and are never entitled to anything; the permanent plank focuses the burdens on the companies, while they do not need them. Finally, the supervision of local authorities, as provided for in Article 5 of the draft law, will result in a net loss of more than 400 million euros of resources for them, which promises for tomorrow a significant increase in property taxes – they have already increased by 80% in Paris in ten years. In the end, it is therefore France of the owners that will drink. In conclusion, I regret that the draft budget serves political posting effects rather than a project for France. The major fiscal and fiscal choices no longer take place in the finance bills, in order to better mask the hidden face of the Government's economic policy: every year, taxes flourish outside the finance bill. In this way, you do not have to bear in front of the French the tax burden. The hidden side of your policy is always more compulsory levies, spending, deficit and debt; more and more shots of planking, savings of candlesticks and ever less political courage. The hidden face of your policy is the reduction of ecology to punitive taxation: yesterday the carbon tax, today the car malus and tomorrow the abandonment of a qualitative ecological transition because you will exclude the middle classes of the ISCED.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u263	Well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u264	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The hidden side of your policy is also the end of the zero-rate loan in rural areas, which will further accentuate the divide between the territories; It's a budget that has become a real tax maze. We lose the thread of reforms, the thread of common sense and the thread of the first priority of the French, the purchasing power. For these reasons, the Republican Group will strongly oppose this draft budget. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u265	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u266	Mr General, dear Joël, it was a real pleasure to work with you. I hope that we will continue in another framework. As the finance bill that we are about to consider opens the third fiscal year of the quinquennium, I would like to quote the French translation of a sentence delivered two hundred and fifty years ago by Thomas Jefferson: "no democratic representation, no tax."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u267	Nice quote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u268	Consent to tax, at the heart of our Constitution, lies in our responsibility as parliamentarians. This democratic responsibility, marked by the vote in Parliament on the state budget, requires us to strive tirelessly to make the tax fairer, fairer and therefore acceptable to all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u269	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u270	We are aware of the importance of this mission. This budget is therefore both a tax justice budget and an ambitious budget for our country. It is a budget of tax justice, because it embodies Emmanuel Macron's commitment to the French to abolish the housing tax on the principal residence, a tax whose amount varies according to the territories, felt as particularly unfair by our fellow citizens. This tax will be abolished in 2023 for all French, in accordance with the recommendations of the Constitutional Council. Clause 5 of this finance bill reflects this commitment we made in 2018. However, taxes on vacant premises and secondary residences will be maintained because they are redistributive in nature. In line with the fall in income tax, this reform will provide a real breath for all our fellow citizens, especially the middle classes. It is a budget of tax justice, because it compensates for the loss of revenue caused by the abolition of the housing tax for the communities to the nearest euro and without creating a new tax. Local and regional authorities, and in particular the municipalities, carry out essential tasks for the population. They are the driving force behind the dynamics of the territories and ensure social cohesion, as close as possible to the inhabitants. This compensation was essential to maintain such local synergies. An ad hoc mechanism will therefore be put in place, which will take the form of a coefficient neutralizing the over- and under-compensation of the share of the property tax on the built properties allocated to the communities via the advance account of the local authorities. I would like to pay tribute to the originality of this mechanism, which is dynamic and ingrained in the long term, which differs from the one introduced in 2010 when the business tax was abolished. It should make it possible for the communes to live this transition well, with a constant budgetary scope. Smaller municipalities will continue to benefit from overcompensations in excess of 10000 euros. In total, nearly EUR 1 billion of state funding will help to secure the situation of the communities. With unchanged and simplified resources, they will be able to better fit into the expenditure control path proposed by the Minister of Action and Public Accounts. A budget of ambition, finally, because this reform clarifies the very architecture of local taxation, which has constantly become more complex in recent years, prompting people to request a refocusing of the decision-making levels closest to them, at the municipal level. Thus, the share of the property tax that was previously allocated to the departments will be transferred in 2021 to the municipalities, which will simplify the democratic legibility of this tax by re-establishing the link between the territory where it is collected and the beneficiary, i.e. the municipality. This link is all the more essential given that land valuation is a source of investment in public services and improvements in the living environment of the municipalities. In addition, local direct taxation will be better articulated between them, be it the property tax on built properties, the business property tax or the secondary residence tax, which will now be proportionally linked. Finally, compensation measures are provided for the EPCIs and the departments, to which a fraction of the VAT will be allocated. For their part, the regions will receive compensation in the form of a state budget allocation, as will public land institutions. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore call on you to vote on this ambitious and fair 2020 budget and to pursue together the major projects of this five-year local tax year, in particular through the revision of rental values and the reform of the taxation of built and unbuilt land, which should be an opportunity to reintroduce mobility in the park; I'll make you proposals to that effect. In line with the reform of local taxation provided for in this draft budget, we will naturally carry out the reform of the overall operating budget in consultation with the associations of elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u271	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u272	[[Smile]] Happy birthday, rapporteur-general. I don't know how old you are, but you don't! As you may say at the outset, minister, we are very far from approving your finance bill for 2020. How would you like it to be otherwise when you reject any proposals from minorities? As for the amendments aimed at returning to your political line and its liberal drifts, such as the restoration of the tax on wealth or the abolition of the flat tax, let us not talk about this: you are dealing with these subjects with such sufficiency that you become blind to the economic assessments of these measures, as Mrs Rabault has pointed out. In reality, it is an upset budget that you present to us: a budget that retains its ultraliberal line but is upset by the "yellow vests" and the measures of appeasement that go with it. As a result, your communication is also upset. Proof: you never finish your sentences and many details remain killed... For example, you are announcing a reduction of €5 billion in income tax by failing to specify that this measure benefits only those who pay the tax in its nature. Of course, it will benefit some 17 million taxpayers in the first two instalments, but it forgets over 21 million of our least affluent citizens. The same applies to the removal of the housing tax: you budget for its abolition in favour of 80% of households for a cost of 3.7 billion euros and once again, you do not advertise much for the 5 million households – where the most fragile – that, being not subject to this tax, will not be able to benefit from this tax gift. Worse still, you are considering the total exemption of this tax within three years for the 20% of the most affluent French, i.e. a gift of about 1200 euros per household – i.e. a gift of about 10 billion euros to the richest, which represents three times the ISF. It took much less to trigger the movement of the "yellow vests"! In this story, in fact, you do not remove a tax, but you transform a local tax into a national tax, since the municipalities will have to be compensated. How will you compensate for this new expense? Where will you go for new recipes? Who will pay for the new savings? What will happen to this compensation as well? I can tell you that the mayors, scalded by the compensation of the business tax, are distrustful, and that's why!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u273	That's why we did something different!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u274	In this budget, you are already talking about exemption rather than relief. As for your correcting coefficient, it's the final coconut! A study currently being published on the subject may make some noise... You also fail to tell us that you are going to make a new undervaluation of social benefits and part of pensions. Even more unfair, you are burdening our most fragile citizens with the hope of no less than 1.3 billion savings thanks to the reform of the calculation of personalized housing assistance and 690 million euros with the reform of unemployment insurance. You also keep in mind the fact that in 2020 the state will not compensate for the so-called "yellow vest" social security measures, whether it is the exemption from overtime social contributions, the fall in the CSG for modest pensioners, or the revalorisation of small pensions to the level of inflation. In doing so, you forget to specify that you are taking the social security deficit up again to justify future savings on social spending! For example, unemployed people receiving social benefits and housing subsidies, who do not pay income taxes or housing taxes, will be the first victims of your government's budget. What injustices you're not saying! And what a missed ambition for the planet! Indeed, our house is burning and the budget is looking elsewhere! Your budget does not reflect any ambition in terms of ecological transition: 2.6% increase only in this area... On the contrary, you do not hesitate to remove more than 1000 posts intended to achieve this ecological transition that our young people are waiting for! During this budgetary period, I will propose an amendment aimed at better valuing the energy cheque and the tax credit for the energy transition – the ISCED – in order to improve the rest of the lives of the inhabitants of the territories most exposed to the cold; I hope that you will be attentive to the territorial specificities of the climate. On the other hand, with Boris Vallaud, I will take advantage of a parliamentary niche to propose to you to stop the thermal colanders in order to offer a kind of better future to more than 7 million people poorly housed and badly heated and to act effectively against greenhouse gases. Here again, I hope that you will show humility by accepting a real ecological ambition in the service of economic and social objectives. In conclusion, Minister, your budget proposal is far too carbonized and far too unfair. And he seems angry with auxiliaries, since he constantly refers us to the conjugation of the verb avoir: to have more dividends and profits...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u275	Have less taxes to pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u276	Have more, more, more, for those who already have everything! Having fewer social security contributions, having fewer public services, having fewer, always less for those who are in a situation of fragility. It would be necessary to combine the verb be more often: to be attentive to others, to the elders, to the sick...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u277	Be shorter...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u278	Being at the service of sport and culture...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u279	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u280	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] Above all, be attentive to our planet. Unfortunately, to each his auxiliaries and to each his values... The Socialist and Related Group will not vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u281	To be or not to be...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u282	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u283	We are gathered to review the Finance Bill for 2020, which sets out the broad guidelines decided by the President of the Republic and his government for our country. I hear on some of the benches of this House and elsewhere that this is only a transitional budget that has nothing exceptional and, basically, does not deserve to be looked into. On the contrary, I believe that he is a strong marker of Act II of the quinquennium. At the end of 2018 and at the beginning of 2019, during the crisis of the "yellow vests", the French expressed with anger their feeling of social and fiscal injustice, linked in particular to the profound lack of knowledge of the functioning and usefulness of the tax, even though France is the country of Europe that redistributes its wealth most. They also hammered their need to regain purchasing power. The reduction of almost €5 billion in income tax, which will benefit the middle classes, is an excellent example of the Government's willingness to give them back, particularly in the case of the poorest households. An important feature of this budget, Article 5 specifies the abolition of the housing tax for 80% of households in 2020, and its gradual and definitive disappearance for the remaining 20% by 2023. This measure, whose futures cost is estimated at 20 billion euros, will generate an average gain per household of around 723 euros, which will undeniably restore purchasing power to all French people. However, it also kicks off a reform of local taxation of historical significance, as it profoundly changes its general architecture. It is precisely on its impact on communities that I want to focus the rest of my speech, as my colleague Lise Magnier said. First of all, we note with satisfaction your desire to maintain support for local communities by maintaining allocations, including equalization allocations, at the same level as in 2019. However, in order to preserve the financial balance of local and regional authorities – who will be deprived of an important budget revenue – and not to undermine the principle of their financial autonomy, the loss of the proceeds of the housing tax must be compensated to the nearest euro. If we do not doubt the intention that exists for these purposes, we believe that a risk remains to achieve this objective because of the multitude of interlocking elements. No less than twenty-five pages and five hundred and twenty paragraphs to decline Article 5, and no less than fifty pages in the pre-assessment report of the articles to explain the mechanisms of compensation: even the most experienced lose their Latin there! Therefore, it would seem wise and prudent to spare more time in 2020 to deepen the reform of the landing points, such as the sharing of resources within the local bloc, the compensation and equalization mechanisms, and the impact on the calculation of the fiscal and financial potential of communities deeply affected by this reform. That is precisely the meaning of an amendment which we have tabled in order to provide for a re-visit clause which would make it possible to make the necessary adjustments in the event of collateral damage which could penalise local and regional authorities. On the other hand, we were surprised to see the freezing of the tax bases of the 2020 housing tax, which contradicts the principle of compensation to the euro near and deprives the communities of a dynamic which they particularly need. However, positive progress has been made in committee on this specific point; I have no doubt that they will be comforted in the sitting. Finally, we wonder about the suspension in 2020 of the systems of smoothing, progressive tax integration and harmonisation of the rates of taxation of the housing tax, while the rationalization of the intercommunal map, imposed on elected officials in recent years, has redefined new intercommunal groupings and the need to implement, within the framework of the territorial pacts, smoothing periods of up to 12 years. In conclusion, we have no doubt, ministers, that you will provide clear answers to the various points I have raised so that we can better understand the reasons for your choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u284	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u285	It is not easy, after more than three hours of general discussion, to talk about a finance bill on which almost everything has been said when we have only five minutes of speaking time. So I will focus my remarks on alerting you to a particularly dangerous provision of this bill: clause 57. It provides for the authorisation of the tax administration to collect and exploit freely accessible content published on the Internet. The authorisation would be given on an experimental basis for three years – until more, of course. It is no more or less a matter of spying on taxpayers in order to detect whether their lifestyle is in line with what they report to the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u286	This is called the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u287	You explain to us, Minister, that since 2013 the tax administration has been developing this kind of process called "Targetting Fraud and Valuing Petitions", and that it is only a matter of continuing in the same direction. This is not true, as the CNIL explained in its opinion of 12 September, according to which we are indeed faced with a real "reversion of method". So far, it was a matter of "aspirating" – according to the term used in data processing – only data from files and data internal to administrations. The proposed new processing will be based on "a prior general collection of data relating to all persons (...) and not on a logic of targeted processing of such data where doubt or suspicions of the commission of an infringement exist". Admit the difference is big! To achieve your goal, you want to use bigdata and data exploration techniques. You refer to them as "innovative statistical methods", when they are in fact highly controversial and often banned in many countries, especially in the United States where they were born. To promote this measure, Minister, you argue that the information and photographs published on social media are accessible to everyone and that there is no reason why the tax administration is the only one not able to take them into account. In fact, the fact that data are available on the Internet does not mean that they can be freely drawn for a purpose other than the one in which they were published. This is also the meaning of the very critical opinion given by CNIL with regard to this project, which I have already quoted. Even more worrying, Bercy's computers will not only collect data from the people concerned, as they will also capture data published by third parties in opinions and comments: this will help to establish a widespread system of tax indicators via social networks – to speak plainly, buggers. In addition to these risks, CNIL also warned, and this is probably the most serious, that the implementation of such a mechanism was "likely to affect the freedom of opinion and expression" of the persons concerned. And for good reason, since what taxpayers publish will be recorded and analyzed by algorithms, and potentially retained for a year or more if a procedure is launched against them. This is all the more serious given that not only commercial platforms will be affected, but also all social networks, including YouTube, Facebook or other Twitter-type communication networks, which the CNIL found particularly critical and far beyond what would be relevant in the fight against fraud. And you don't lack humor, minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u288	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u289	...when, in a press release dated October 1, 2019, you invoke "a democratic spirit" to explain that the legislative path was not legally required to deploy this experiment. In fact, as you know, a simple order would have been the subject of an appeal for abuse of power before the Council of State, which would probably have annulled it under the Law of 6 January 1978 on computer science, files and freedoms, and the European Data Protection Regulation. By passing the law, minister, you skilfully protect yourself from censorship by the Council of State. Ladies and gentlemen, our responsibility is heavy. This mechanism is critical and this highly intrusive technique can only be justified for targeted categories of persons, already suspected of offences, and not for all citizens, transformed into as many suspects. Should we remind you of that? Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against interference with his or her privacy. It's one of the foundations of democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u290	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u291	The budgets follow each other and are unfortunately similar, so that my intervention will also be similar to that of previous years. Lower revenues, lower spending, lower government, lower common good, here's your software! In recent months, we have seen you, minister, running from set to set, trying to sell this finance bill, always with the good news: "taxes are decreasing, purchasing power is increasing." Perfect! The PLF for 2020 will therefore be a big cru. But it is clear that it is the rich who will drink and the poor who will drink. Your reduction in income tax illustrates it well. A single person earning up to 6700 euros a month, that is more than a member of parliament, will see its tax cut: 6700 euros for one person, that's what you call the middle class. Meanwhile, the 57% of the least fortunate households will not see the beginning of a clarification, as they do not pay tax. Worse, they will get poorer, because the state losing EUR 5 billion, it will be less public services for them that are the first beneficiaries. As everyone knows, income tax is progressive, that is, fair, normally. The wealthiest, most often by lot, contribute to it in a greater proportion than the poorest, because each pays according to its ability. By attacking this tax, you are attacking tax justice. What could you prefer to him? VAT, which is the most unfair tax, since the poorest pay it as much as the richest? However, next year it is expected to report 2.5 times as much as income tax. But you will not lower it in 2020, not even a little, not even on essential products, since you have rejected our amendments in this direction. [[Riressur several benches of the LaREM group]] To sum up, your PLF is 5 billion euros for the 43% of the most affluent households, plus 8 billion euros a year for the most affluent 20% of the affluent,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u292	You don't like them, the affluent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u293	... with the abolition of the housing tax, which represents, as has been pointed out, an infringement of the independence of local authorities and which removes democracy from the citizens. Thus, it is 13 billion euros of purchasing power in addition, as you say. Not to mention the ISF, abolished at the beginning of the quinquennium, whose cumulative bill will reach 10 billion euros at the end of 2020: 10 billion euros for the richest 0.5%! But you do not stop there in terms of lower revenues: the company tax will thus increase from 33 % to 31 % for companies whose turnover exceeds 250 million euros, i.e. those which do not already pay a quarter of them and which will, of course, speed up the profit of the shareholders of this manna, as has already been seen with the CICE. And for each of these gifts, given to the economic powers on the back of the needy, you present the same excuse: "encourage investment". Again this morning, Mr. Darmanin, on BFM TV, you spoke of the fable of "the rich who, if he gets richer again, will finally deign to make others work." The runoff, in short! Yet, Minister, even France Stratégie has not found any trace of any runoff.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u294	You didn't read the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u295	On the contrary, by its own admission, yet modest, this service of Matignon finds that dividends no longer end up inflating and feeding savings and agitation. You do not know it, but it is not the rich who invest, but the middle and middle classes, who consume when their income increases. And it is up to the state, when interest rates are negative as they are today, to finance the ecological transition, the infrastructure and all the construction sites that will produce a healthy and long-term activity. Even Jean Pisani-Ferry, former Commissioner-General for Strategy and Foresight and Director of Macron's "Program and Ideas" division in 2017, encourages us to do so. And if it's debt that prevents you from investing, why remove so much revenue? Your model is obsolete, but you persist, as this PLF shows. You persist in wanting public money to make expensive detours through the hands of brokers and for capital to take an undue and ever greater share of our commons. You continue to defend an economically, socially and environmentally inefficient program and model.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u296	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u297	Let us not lie, the budget is a rather frustrating exercise. We arrive at the National Assembly with the strong desire to radiate the great values of our Republic in all bills, and we find ourselves faced with a text which, in fact of fraternity, opposes the coldness of the figures, in fact of equality, multiplies the exceptions and, in fact of freedom, egrens a list of many constraints. A budget is indisputably an exercise of coerced creativity. Constrained by the commitments we made in the 2017 multi-annual public finance programming plan, which we are committed to honouring. In 2020, as we promised in 2017, we will reduce corporate tax again and we will remove the housing tax for 80% of French citizens, before completely eliminating it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u298	Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u299	What about SMEs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u300	Look at the figures for SMEs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u301	As we began to do last year, we are continuing to simplify business taxation by removing unjustified new taxes and incongruous new niches. This year, as every year since 2017, Mrs Rabault, we have indeed transformed the taxation of capital: the raising of funds, through private equity, has increased by more than 2 billion euros compared to 2017, but we will talk about it again. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This constraint, which we had set ourselves right after our election, imposed an ambitious, unprecedented and, in many respects, out-of-standard work. To this must be added the constraint of the external environment. Let's be clear: a budget can be out of order, but it can't be out of the ground. This is how the world evolves faster than the cadres we want to set for it: last year we had to deal with the explosion of a deaf anger that has been rising for decades; Yes, we responded by pragmatizing our public spending targets. In the spring, the great national debate highlighted the impatience of the French, who are waiting for the fruits of the renewed growth: we respond to it by massively lowering the income tax. All majorities had to deal with both the internal and external constraints. Some have made the choice to go back on their promises, when others have pretended to ignore the realities. The former criticize the latter, and the latter criticize the former. Thanks to his opposition on the right and the opposition on the left, our majority has the chance to face these two criticisms. I speak of "luck", for, as the old adage says, "constraints are healed by the opposites." For the majority, the budget is also for the opposition. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Take the example of the budget deficit, which in 2020 will be the lowest since 2001. Public expenditure will represent only 53.4% of GDP in 2020, compared to 55% in 2017. It is thanks to these efforts that we manage to contain the debt, stabilized downwards, to 98.7% of GDP. Yet the left will say – she has already told us – that we reduce spending too quickly, the right not enough; the right will say you have to spend less, the left will say you have to spend more. I did not disapprove of the possible part of the posture in these positions. When he was a budget minister, one of my colleagues, who is sitting on the right of this House today, mocked the "new supporters of Malthusian politics", who accused him of reducing deficits too moderately. When she was the general rapporteur for the budget, one of my colleagues, who is sitting on the left of this House today, insisted on the need to reduce the deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u302	I'm holding it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u303	Thank you for doing so, because we have a record of your comments. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The truth is in between. To exercise power, you know as well as I do, ladies and gentlemen, is not only to be responsible, but above all to take responsibility, which requires a decision. Squeeze against a further change in property tax, whether to remove exemptions or to add new ones. Trancing against a re-establishment of inheritance tax exemptions, because this "small" measure would cost public finances €5 billion and would benefit the richest. Scratch a new definition of permanent establishment, because the Government has just passed a digital services tax, known as the GAFA tax. It's a long list. Unfortunately, we find many of these proposals in response to the thousands of amendments that have been tabled on the first part of the finance bill. Unfortunately, they totally ignore, rather pretend to ignore, the constraints that I evoked. To take responsibility is to defend a budget that is neither spectacular nor grandiose, it is to accept to be an actor, sometimes boring, who refuses to play at all times. For if the coup de théâtre is the passion of the politicians, it is the haunting of the French, companies as individuals, when they prepare their budget. [[Riressur several benches in the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Here is the priesthood of the deputies of our majority: in order not to frustrate the French, we must accept to do a sometimes frustrating job.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u304	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u305	Thank you, Mr President of the Committee on Finance and the rapporteur-general, for these debates which are respectful of everyone's point of view. The Finance Bill for 2020 is the mirror of all French demons. Debt rise, lack of reduction in public spending: the state continues to operate, at the expense of structural investments to be made for the future, to ensure the ecological transition, for example,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u306	You're green!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u307	... or face the major challenge of health and addiction. Moreover, on the side of the social security financing bill, this is not much better, with the crisis of emergencies, the crisis of hospitals and the crisis of EHPADs, as well as the medical divide within the territories. We are even suffering from a shortage of medicines – that is, if our health care system is sick! I come back to this finance bill, and to its anesthetic, if you will allow me to continue in the medical registry: I am referring to negative interest rates. In three years, the debt will have increased by €190 billion. Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, you are therefore presenting us with a budget of the least effort, where you are not fighting against the wastage of public money, where we are financing the state's life course through debt, and where the budget deficit will peak in 2020 at EUR 93.1 billion – compared to EUR 67.7 billion in 2017 – i.e. an increase of EUR 25 billion in less than three years. As our colleague Damien Abad has shown brilliantly, your inability to impose on you the slightest budgetary economy does not prevent you from making a contribution, little or no, to the actors of the economy and those of the territories. Let us mention in particular your refusal to go back to the principle of the "thinning ceiling", which affects the budget of the water agencies, thus the ability of the actors in the field to carry out the so important mission of the ecological improvement of the aquatic environment. Let us also mention the abolition of the partial exemption from the tax on non-road diesel for the construction sector, which gives me the opportunity to recall that this, at the heart of our territories, represents one in ten jobs in all levels of qualification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u308	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u309	However, you know that our entrepreneurs do not currently have any alternative technical solutions. The ecological transition has a good back! Once again, you are making budgetary returns on the backs of economic actors, further weakening their competitiveness, already undermined by inflation of standards and distortions of competition! You adopt the same tax return logic with respect to the removal of the green transition tax credit for middle-income households. Thanks to you, we now know that there is a class CO2!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u310	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u311	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] He's not green anymore, he's communist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u312	Greatly used to the year-end budgetary discussions, the consular chambers are still fuelling your lusts. Once it is not customary, we reached agreement, opposition and majority in the Committee on Finance last week to remove from the draft budget the provisions relating to the chambers of agriculture, thereby cancelling your regionalisation project, as well as the reduction of the ceiling of their allocated resources by EUR 45 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u313	It's just the beginning of the story!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u314	Mr Dussopt, Mr Darmanin, in defending an amendment on this subject on behalf of the Committee on Finance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u315	Very good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u316	Good thing we're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u317	... I hope to convince you that the reduction in the budget of the chambers of agriculture is a serious mistake, as 170 parliamentarians, members of Parliament and senators have pointed out, in a trans-party forum published at the initiative of the ardéchois parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u318	Good thing there's the Ardèche!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u319	Technically disarming farmers is a mistake as they face major health, climate and economic challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u321	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u322	It is also a tax error, since the land tax base on unbuilt properties is by definition a tool of fiscal solidarity between all actors, whether farmers or non-farmers, forest operators or not. It's finally a political mistake. What is the point of pouring the drop of water that will overflow the vase, which is more important for a measure whose impact on public finances is zero? You can't ignore it: there's fire in our countryside. Let us mention the decline in farmers' incomes, the recurrence of climatic hazards in the face of climate change, and the decline in the competitiveness of our agricultural holdings on the basis of the transposition of standards and distortions of competition. The reactions to the ratification of CETA and the threat posed by MERCOSUR are unfortunately there to remind him! This crisis is also that of the downgrading of farmers, and a discouragement which, in extreme cases, takes the form of suicide every two days. So will I conclude my remarks with a solemn question, a true cry from the heart: who, at the top of the state and the media, will wipe out the emotion of the social body and return to a rational analysis, based on scientific realities, so that our peasants are not – no longer – the scapegoats of all fears and of all received ideas? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is with this multiple, complex and highly flammable reading grid that any agricultural decision must now be taken!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u323	Bravo! Beautiful defense of the rural territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u324	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u325	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] For the past two years, local and regional authorities have been doing better. They're even getting better and better.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u326	Coué method!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u327	We have to get out of the gallery and go to the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u328	[[Same movements]] Even the departments will record an increase in their investment expenditure this year, after a decade of decline. Here I have a few numbers to inform you, or reassure you:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u329	We must not be reassured, but local and regional authorities!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u330	... gross savings up 11%; a stabilisation of their debt, following a continuous increase between 2003 and 2017; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u331	Thanks to a right hand management!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u332	... operating revenues growing faster than operating expenses – 0.4% in 2019; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u333	Tell the mayors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u334	... and investments that are expected to increase by 8.5% this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u335	The bigger it is, the more it goes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u336	These are the figures of the Court of Auditors and La Banque Postale! These fine results, we owe them first and foremost to elected officials and to their management work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u337	And not to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u338	He should be greeted. We also owe it to the increase in local tax returns, the result of our proactive economic policy. Finally, we owe it to a new relationship with the elected representatives, established by the Government and its majority, in breach of the violent cuts in endowments made between 2013 and 2017 – which you wanted to amplify if you had come to power, dear colleagues of the group The Republicans! To restore confidence, we promised the stability of the endowments and their visibility over time. That is what we have done; That's what we do. Indeed, in 2020, for the third consecutive year, operating allocations will be stable and investment allocations will reach a record level. State financial assistance to local and regional authorities – including VAT paid to regions, for example – will increase by €600 million in 2020. At the same time, we will continue to strengthen national solidarity in favour of the least-favoured communities, whether rural, suburban or overseas. In this context, equalization allocations will reach the record level of 35% of the total amount of the DGF in 2020. I would now like to mention one of the main issues in this finance bill: the definitive abolition of the housing tax on the principal residence in 2023, which will make it possible to return more than 17 billion euros of purchasing power to the French. As of November of this year, 80% of French households will pay the balance of the housing tax for the last time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u339	What about the remaining 20%?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u340	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In 2021, local authorities will shift to a new model. What do the mayors expect? What did they tell us? They want to keep a local tax of the same amount: they will have it. They want the freedom to set their rate: they'll get it. They want the dynamics of the tax bases: they will have it. They want compensation to the euro: they'll get it. They want the possibility of introducing exemptions: they will have them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u341	We'll talk about this again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u342	And if they deploy new programs, they'll get the fruit! [[Ms. Dominique David applauds]] This is indeed a reform that respects local and regional authorities, all of which will retain the same degree of financial autonomy – I say all of them. The creation of a correcting mechanism, designed to neutralize the differences in compensation when transferring the departmental fraction of the property tax to the municipalities, is an ingenious system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u343	Go tell the mayors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u344	It makes it possible to compensate for the abolition of the housing tax to the euro while keeping the dynamics of the bases, which has nothing to do with the national fund for individual guarantee of resources – FNGIR – applied during the abolition of the business tax in 2010, which has put in place a fixed compensation in time! I would also like to point out that more than 7300 small rural communes will be able to retain their surplus tax revenues up to EUR 10000. Of course, the effective transition between the two systems, scheduled for 1 January 2021, imposes a number of restrictions, limited to 2020, for essentially technical reasons. One example is the freezing of the flat-rate adjustment of the housing tax bases on principal residences for the year 2020, which raises – rightly – some reservations among elected officials. I would remind you that this revalorisation results in an increase in the amount of local taxes paid by the French in 2019, to 2.2%. That is why the delegation to local authorities and decentralization – Stella Dupont spoke very well about it just now – has drawn up an amendment allowing a revalorisation of these bases at a level closer to the inflation expected in 2020. We thank the Government for having welcomed this parliamentary work. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we take on this reform and proudly carry it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u345	Great good for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u346	It will make local taxation fairer and more readable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u347	You forget "more effective" and "clearer"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u348	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It will provide local and regional authorities with dynamic resources. It is quite the opposite of the description that some people make of it, who are sometimes responsible for associations of elected officials, instilling doubt and fuelling fears, sometimes for electoral purposes, while we should all be in support of local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u349	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u350	We have the ambition to implement a policy in favour of the territories that is the most ambitious in the last 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u351	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u352	Too long! You had to be more concise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u353	Who do you tell?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u354	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are convinced that France can only succeed with its territories and elected representatives. Let's stop opposing the state and the local authorities! Let's give local actors the means to ensure the transformation of our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u355	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u356	The 2020 budget is the budget for lost illusions. We could summarize this draft budget in these terms. It is certainly not, as Messrs. Ministers, "serious", "realistic" and "ecological", or even "in favour of the middle class", as the language elements of the majority group describe it. Mr Minister, at your hearing before the Committee on Finance, you said that you had not given up anything in this budget. Actually, it's all the other way around! With the 2020 budget, you give up everything or almost everything. Your economic assumptions, on the basis of which the 2020 budget was built, are not unreasonable. We share the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance on this point. With regard to the overall sincerity of the budget entries, we also share it. Of course, external operations – OPEX – are still under-budgeted, as well as state medical aid – AME, but their additional costs are offset, for example by a likely overestimation of financial burdens. Thus, overall, it cannot be said that the estimates for expenditure are overestimated or underestimated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u357	It's changing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u358	Minister, did you cut spending, as you committed to it in July 2017? In fact, you have given up reducing the public deficit. I note in your own documents that the forecast for the structural public deficit for the year 2020 amounts to 2.2% of GDP. In addition to double the euro area average, this figure is the same as in 2019 and almost the same as in 2018 – at 2.3%. As the High Council for Public Finance pointed out, we had to reduce the structural deficit by 0.5 percentage points of GDP per year. With this finance bill, we will have achieved a 0.2-point reduction in the structural deficit over the next three years, even as we have to move to a higher rate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u359	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u360	So what will be the European Commission's position on this draft budget? Its members will only be able to see that France is not honouring its commitments. As proof of your renunciation, I recall that the public finance planning law for the years 2018 to 2022 foresees a public deficit of 1.5 percentage points of GDP in 2020; We are at 2.2, almost 17 billion euros in difference! "You wanted to see the drop, we saw the increase! It would have been Jacques Brel! The July 2017 target of a return to balance in 2023 is completely abandoned. He even disappeared from your speeches. Furthermore, the savings announced during the July 2017 public finance policy debate are still expected. In 2018, you made a structural effort on public expenditure of 0.3 percentage points of GDP, or 7 billion euros. That is one third of the EUR 20 billion you announced in the above-mentioned debate. So we were very far from the goal. In addition, you have made 0.2 points – or €5 billion – in structural tax reductions. In total, the decrease in the deficit in 2018 was limited to 0.1 points of GDP. This year, the reduction in the structural deficit is expected to be again 0.1 percentage points of GDP, i.e. almost nothing: in fact, structural expenditure has been reduced by 0.3 percentage points of GDP, but you are reducing taxes and social contributions by 0.3 percentage points. For 2020, the Government tells us that not only will structural reduction efforts be only 0.3 percentage points of GDP again, but we will return 0.6 percentage points in revenue reductions: we will give back more than what has been saved! It is not surprising, therefore, that there is no recovery in public finances. The numbers are there: the savings you are making are very insufficient – about a third of what you should do. In fact, you do not make any savings in a sensitive area: that of staff expenditure, which accounts for one third of total expenditure. You do not foresee any reduction in the number of staff: in 2020, these will, for the state budget, be 47 abolitions of posts, out of 2.2 million... And again, it is only thanks to the ODAC – various agencies of central government! To achieve the 50,000 abolitions of the posts of state officials, and thus to keep the presidential promise, at this rate, we will take 1000 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u361	Oh, yes, still!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u362	Mr.Minister, in essence, you have never fulfilled the commitments made during the July 2017 public finance policy debate on expenditure reduction, even though you were given a favourable environment when you came to power – a situation that was not your fault.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u363	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u364	It's good to recognize him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u365	Will you restore public finances in the next two budgets, 2021 and 2022? As we all know, ministers: for those who will still be there, savings will become increasingly difficult as we approach election deadlines... In short, you have given up on the need to reorganize public finances. These renunciations are all the more risky because the international context is uncertain. It is true that the macroeconomic assumptions presented in this draft finance law are plausible, as indicated by the High Council for Public Finance; But there are still a number of risks, and the High Council recalls them. The problem is that you do not allow yourself any room for manoeuvre in the event of a further slowdown in growth, in a global context, I repeat, unstable. The clouds are gathering, whether it is the price of the barrel of oil, of which no one knows how it will evolve, interest rates, which continue to fall while everyone thought last year that they were going to rise – and your assumptions, on this point, are very cautious – the uncertainty about Brexit, which may or may not be at all at all, or the demultilateralization of international trade. This degraded environment risks breaking the balance of this budget when it comes to implementing it, Minister. I would therefore not be able to urge you, as last year, to make a greater effort on public spending. At a time when trade tensions may well dampen growth, the lack of effort on spending will be your weakness in the event of a sharp slowdown in economic activity. We are, ladies and gentlemen, on a barrel of powder, not oil.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u366	Excellent, Charles!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u367	What needed to be done to reduce spending? This is only possible through structural reforms. I will take one example: pension reform. Many ideas, different from each other, were presented. But the reform that you are announcing to us, which should be finally voted on next year, will only apply in 2025: it will have no consequences by the end of this legislature. The position of the Freedom and Territory Group is simple, Minister. On the one hand, the introduction of a single scheme for all employees; self-employed people who wish to do so could join him. On the other hand, recovery of a slow but continuous rise in retirement age – one quarter a year, gradually rising to 63, then to 64, as we did to increase from 60 to 62 years. That saves you, Minister, $2 billion a year. This is an example of a structural economy. If this is not done, ladies and gentlemen, all speeches on the recovery of public finances are in vain. I'm coming to my second part.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u368	[[Smile]] You have a minute and a half left, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u369	It'll be short, Madam President. You lower some tax revenues, but do you, in doing so, go towards more tax justice, as you promised? Minister, you're making 90% of the cuts on households, and 10% on businesses: in other words, you gave up Adam Smith for Lord Keynes. But everyone knows that you will not adjust France's potential growth rate without pursuing a policy of supply, the one that was at the beginning of your economic thinking!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u370	She always is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u371	Remember what I told you about structural growth: it is 1.1 points, at a maximum of 1.2 points. I am pleased to read that you have chosen the figure of 1.25.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u372	Isn't that enough?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u373	It's a little above! Remember our debates in which you announced a change to 1.5, 1.7, or even 2%. I will conclude with two considerations. Does the 5 billion reduction in income tax benefit the middle classes? No! Only 38% of French people pay income tax; As you attack the first two tranches of this tax, it is the seventh and eighth decile that will be affected, and not at all the middle classes, that is, the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh deciles. Finally, with regard to the housing tax, the constitutional constraint of an abolition for everyone – even with a spread over several years – is not right! The most affluent people could perfectly continue to pay their housing tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u374	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u375	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] As you have understood, this budget is not in the right direction, both in terms of public accounts and in terms of social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u377	The general discussion is closed. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-14-O1021.u378	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the Finance Bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
