ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020 (No. 2296, 2340, 2314).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u3	The draft law on the financing of social security, the PLFSS, is not a text like any other. This is the financial translation of the measures adopted by the Government in the area of social protection. It is a beacon that shows the priorities of the Government and the orientations of its health and social policy. The review of the PLFSS is also a time for future reforms. This is a moment of truth about the Government's ability to deliver on its commitments. And there have been commitments: concerning the renovation of our health system, with the plan "my health 2022"; concerning the transformation of our pension system; or concerning the care of dependency and ageing of the population. On the eve of major reforms and in the context of maximum tensions for our health care institutions, that is little to say that this bill was expected. Yet, despite expectations, despite the challenges, it is a timid PLFSS that you are presenting to us, a PLFSS that raises more doubts than it provides answers about the Government's ability to reform our social protection system, so that each of us is protected from ever greater risks. What can we expect from this bill in terms of ensuring equal access to care for all? What can we hope for our health care institutions that are sinking into a crisis that threatens our entire health care system? What are we going to respond to our hospitals, whose functioning and safety are threatened by ever-increasing deficits; to our ever-saturated emergencies; Out-of-service personnel; to the French everywhere faced with the anguish of medical desertification? That it is only by making savings that we will be able to meet the immense challenges facing our health care system? This is what the Government is doing by presenting a national health insurance expenditure target – ONDAM – down 2.3% from last year's momentum. And yet! Health institutions, both public and private, come together to alert us to their operating conditions. The deficit in public hospitals reached €620 million in 2018 and 25% of private hospitals are in deficit. All need investment, resources, multi-year visibility. Instead, the Government decided not to compensate the social security budget for the loss of revenue from emergency measures in the midst of the yellow vest crisis. As a result, you are depriving our hospitals, emergencies and residential institutions for dependent elderly people, the EHPADs, of 2.7 billion euros. It's not normal! Of course, you will answer that making the opposite choice would not solve the general system deficit, estimated at EUR 5.1 billion in 2020 because of a less favourable economic situation. However, the choice not to compensate is highly symbolic given the context – you know that. The Social Affairs Committee has chosen to reconsider this measure. We very much hope that the rapporteur-general and the majority will support us on this point. We wonder about your proposal to take care of transport and accommodation for pregnant women residing more than 45 minutes from a maternity. This measure is marked by the seal of renunciation, the renunciation of the maintenance of maternity homes in our territories in order to preserve the safety of patients. The Libertés et territoires group refuses to subscribe to it. In addition, the planned abolition of certificates of non-contra-indicative sport, which runs counter to the prevention policy that you are advocating, Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, raises questions. We are not in favour of it. Efforts are also insufficient with regard to purchasing power, which you say is supported by this text. We are concerned that the renewal of the exceptional premium of EUR 1000 on condition that an interest agreement is in place will not bear fruit. Such a restriction will again be made to the detriment of employees in small enterprises. A first assessment by ACOSS, the Central Agency for Social Security Organizations, showed that almost 30 per cent of establishments with more than 2000 employees had paid a premium, compared with 10 per cent of establishments with less than 10 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u5	We will propose improvements to this mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u7	We will oppose the differentiated revalorisation of social benefits. As we said last year, we repeat this year: let us stop using pensions as a budgetary adjustment variable. All pensions, like all social benefits, must be adjusted by at least being indexed to inflation. What a bad signal at a time when you are proposing to reshape our pension system with a social justice goal! With regard to the issue of dependency and the management of population ageing, efforts were being made, but they were insufficient. We welcome your proposal to compensate family caregivers for their leave. This is a much-anticipated measure, defended by all of us here. This decision, we hope, will relieve the approximately 8 million family caregivers, at least half of whom are struggling to reconcile their family involvement with their working lives. However, the maximum duration of this daily allowance – sixty-six days, or three months of work, over the entire career – seems to be insufficient. Consistency would like the compensation period to be aligned with the length of the leave, i.e. one year. However, we propose a compromise by suggesting that this duration be fixed by decree in the Council of State, taking into account the degree of loss of autonomy of the person. For the rest, it is difficult to reach a decision today, since concrete measures will only be presented at the end of the year in the context of the draft law on old age and autonomy. However, given the current and future deficits, Dominique Libault's interesting proposal, which suggested that some of the CRDS's income – the contribution to social debt repayment – should be allocated to the financing of dependency risk, seems to us to be largely compromised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u8	That's a very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u9	As for the future pension reform, it is total uncertainty. You have always defended yourself from taking advantage of this reform to save money,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u10	And yet, it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u11	... but in 2022, the old age branch will have a deficit of 5 billion euros. Will this forecast change your orientations? Fortunately, some of the measures in this bill are in the right direction. We welcome the creation of the post-cancer accompaniment package, which is part of a true patient-centred care path logic. We also welcome the establishment of the public maintenance service, which we hope will be an effective tool to combat the precariousness and exclusion of single-parent families, knowing that 30 per cent of pensions are unpaid or paid irregularly. We welcome all the measures aimed at improving relations with the administration, at a time when the digital divide is making it difficult for many of our citizens to access information, thus helping to increase the non-use of rights. The collection of contributions by the USSRAF – the Unions for the recovery of social security contributions and family allowances –, the contemporaneization of home employment aid and the return of income for self-employed people at one time instead of three will contribute to this simplification effort. Finally, we welcome the establishment of the Fund for the Compensation of Pesticide Victims. It reflects the need for our social protection model to better integrate health and environmental risks. We will propose improvements to the scheme, on the basis of the discussions we had during the examination of the bill presented by our colleague Dominique Potier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u13	In this spirit, we wanted to offer you better protection against endocrine disruptors. Unfortunately, like many others, these amendments were considered inadmissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u14	What a disappointment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u15	Madam Minister for Solidarity and Health, Minister for Action and Public Accounts, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the financing of social security is not just a budget text: it is a political signal. Beyond the figures, it is on political guidelines that we must decide. We need to focus on identifying, behind expenditure and revenue projections, the ability to propose effective and protective public policies. We must ensure that this budget will allow us to protect everyone from risks – from poverty and inequality, from disease and accidents, from dependency, from exclusion, from environmental risks. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] It is with these concerns that the Liberties and Territories Group will vote on this text, which, unfortunately, is below our expectations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u16	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u17	This year, more than ever before, our debates will receive special attention. This is a new budget for social insecurity. The public hospital is dying from severe budgetary austerity, aggravation of working conditions due to staff shortages, closures of beds due to closures of units, and a reduction in the means of deterioration of the quality and security of care. Behind the figures, behind the Excel spreadsheets, behind the calculators' language, behind the absurd European budgetary rules, there are women and men who have made the choice to commit themselves to treating, as well as patients, users who fear for themselves or their loved ones. In ten years, more than 50,000 beds have been closed. Successive budgets have never been at the level of the increase in the burden of care. Health policy has been reduced to its only budgetary dimension, aiming at the reduction of public spending, sacrificed to the sole benefit of the private sector – this private sector, which is probably the only one you serve. The public hospital is dying and, from this rostrum, I am relaying the intense suffering of hospital staff, who are calling for an emergency plan for the hospital. The public hospital is dying and, from this rostrum, I am also the relay of the immense gratitude that the French feel for those who protect and care for them. You need to hear them. We can no longer afford a two-tier system of care where those who have the means can pay for care while almost one in two French people give up doing so and the health care workers get sick because of intolerable working conditions. While we were called on last year to rejoice at the return to balance of social security accounts, this time we are called to note the return of the famous "hole of the security". What are we talking about? We are talking about EUR 5 billion, or 0.2% of gross domestic product. Where does this new slip of social accounts justify tightening the screw? If we believe the story told to anyone who wants to hear it, it is the fault of the yellow vests! Don't they have a good back, those yellow vests? The truth is, it's your choices that all insured people pay for. Social security is a package managed by the social partners, financed by contributions from employees and employers. When the State decides to reduce these contributions, it would be logical for it to bear the loss of earnings for social security. But you refuse to do so. Thus, when President Macron comes to make his announcements on television, he imposes his decisions, hoping to obtain a personal benefit without paying any penny from the state budget to offset the cost. It must be recalled here, and we will do so as often as necessary, that when you claim to increase wages by removing social contributions, you lie. Deleting social contributions means making employees pay the small increase in their net wages by losing means in the face of the risks of life. To the very rich, on the other hand, you make gifts, without consideration – and without any positive result for the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u18	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u19	By choosing contribution exemptions rather than wage increases, you place the weight of your decisions on social security and on the insured. After that, you come to this Chamber to deplore the consequences, according to a well-functioning technique: you practice a hole in the cash register, then you come astonished that there is a hole in the cash register, then you say that this hole in the cash register requires savings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u20	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u21	The trick is done: the road is clear for the dismantling of social security – and for other reforms, such as, at random, pensions. [[Boris Vallaud applauds]] What is finally the social balance of this beginning of quinquennium? It can now be measured: since you took over the leadership, inequalities have increased and poverty has increased in the country. Large companies, after receiving your tax gifts, quickly forgot their promises; but their leaders remain the main beneficiaries of the Government's policy. You are still called The Republic on the move, but with you, the Republic ramp.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u22	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the LT group]] In the end, your policy is less of a republic. Your turn will pass. The time will come to rebuild and finally put the French into social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u24	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u25	We're not going to be able to stop at that. From year to year, the social security budgets follow each other, are similar and come together, in order to deprive it of the means necessary for the full fulfilment of its tasks. The one introduced to us last year, at that time, greatly contributed to the burning of powders in the country. The Government had to review its copy in the game stoppages, however, in order not to deny itself, and thus choose to operate once again the lever of the contribution exemption. We pay the price of this stubbornness, and you're adding a layer of it today. I have to admit, you have some consistency, but so do we. [[Boris Vallaud applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] I would like to recall that Ambrose Croizat, when he laid the foundation stone of social security in order to avoid the uncertainty of the next day among those who live from their work, said that he wanted to allow "all men and women to fully develop their possibilities, their personality". This is why social security, despite the cuts made to it, is still an essential part of the Republic; and more than a wheel, it should remain a great project. It is this dimension that we see absent in the choices that are proposed to us. I try to describe them, because when I hear them set out by the Government, I feel like I'm being told a movie that's not on the poster. Without wishing to insult Leonardo da Vinci, it's a bit like the Mona Lisa: when you hear about it, you can't wait to see it, but when you see it, you're disappointed to see that the painting is very small.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u26	You've already said it in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u27	[[Smile]] [[Laughs and applause on many benches]] Here, we have a narrow budget, cut back, cut back – a bill, not funding, but underfunding, impoverishment, weakening of social security. The intention is clear: social security must be corseted to reduce the pay for work. There is an ever-increasing need to nurture a financially-funded economy, in the hands of a few powerful owners. So we clear our clothes in turn, blindly. The dead leaves are shoveled; Obviously, the exemptions too. The minister spoke earlier about social niches: they are no longer niches, but cabins, and you will end up putting the cabin on the dog! Despite appearances, the point is serious. This year, you are proposing to put an end to the principle of full compensation for these exemptions. We understand why: the amounts they reach – at the bottom of the word 66 billion euros, twice as much as in 2013, according to our calculations – make them increasingly difficult to compensate. And for what results in terms of employment, wages? The social security budget cannot be a variable for adjusting the budget of the State or the budget of enterprises, a fund where to pee to pay the slate. This budget is the share of the wealth produced by labour that is subtracted from bankers, insurers, renters, and pooled to enable everyone to face the hazards of existence. The immediate consequence of government bias is the reduction of the social security wing, not without some redeployments, some shimmering touches – a fund to compensate the victims of plant protection products, measures concerning maintenance or post-cancer care. The strength of your project is elsewhere: after the unemployed have been heavily involved, it is the turn of the family allowances, housing allowances, the allowance for disabled adults and the activity premium to be almost frozen. On the contrary, as an aperitif to the reform that is simmering, pensions are finally re-indexed to inflation – provided they do not exceed EUR 2000 per month, which constitutes a clear infringement of acquired rights. Finally, sick leave is attacked. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] By keeping ONDAM at 2.3 per cent, the Government is demanding €4.2 billion in health savings, including 1.2 billion in future cuts in hospital spending, which we know is a widespread crisis. All over the world, staff are on strike in the emergency, psychiatry or other services. They only ask to be able to practice their profession, to be able to treat patients with dignity. They first ask for the reinforcement of colleagues to recover the time of care and of the human, then equipment not to be obliged to provide care with overshoes or to tinker with infusion feet. They ask for the closures of beds and services to be stopped, as well as the recognition due to them. In the field of health, suffering at work is obvious, as the Court of Auditors' report shows. According to the figures that were provided to us, in 2016 there were twice as many sick leave cases as in most other sectors. This bill is considering reviewing some funding options to limit the effects of activity pricing. This is a good thing, but it will remain ineffective on a constant basis. This budget is therefore untenable, as the hospital is already in an unsustainable position. We urge you to take stock of the situation; Otherwise, you will soon be caught up in reality. Let us listen to the voices that are rising in the country: we cannot stand there. Some private actors intend to take advantage of the current difficulties of the public hospital; We know that they are not able to meet the needs of all. To avoid the development of an income economy in the field of health, multi-speed care, the public response must be strengthened. In this regard, the announcement of the sale of a hospital near Angers is cause for concern. Resources exist. If it will take time to open up a new era in the public hospital, it is important to emerge today from a logic of compression that limits the policy of the cocotte-minute. You cannot content yourself with Georges Moustaki's chorus: "I would like, without naming her, to speak to you about her [...] it is called a permanent revolution. There is far too much to catch up for permanent reorganization to suffice. A few days ago, our group tabled a bill on emergency measures for health and hospitals, and I know that other groups have recently done the same. These measures are expected to reshape a perspective, as well as measures are expected in the EHPADs, where the situation continues to be critical and again calls for a completely different level of collective commitment. In this connection, I would like to say that we are pleased to see in this budget a proposal which we have defended in the House. It is modest: we had conceived it as a first step, acceptable to the Government and the majority. This is compensation for caregiving leave. This situation affects 11 million of our fellow citizens who, at the expense of their health, assume a solidarity which should be that of the whole community. This device will not solve everything, but it will at least enable it to meet the first needs. I've gone enough to get the ball at the bottom of the nets in the last few months to celebrate a goal when he registers one:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u28	You're not from Marseille for nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u29	... I would therefore like to welcome this awareness, on all the benches, which is reflected in various parliamentary initiatives. There is still a need for a large public service for accompaniment and for support at the same level. With less than 300 million euros, compared with 6 billion required by the Libault report, we are far from the necessary investment. Social security deserves another purpose, another budget, and therefore no doubt another governance than this takeover of the State, to become again the business of the largest number of its contributors and its beneficiaries. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] In society the demand for health, the demand for other ways of life, production and consumption is growing. Care will always be necessary, but we can prevent the occurrence of many health problems, and this must be our priority. In a changing society, concerned about its future, we must better protect people throughout their lives and invent new forms of social protection. This requires an end to the race for public and social austerity, which finances the opulence of private officials and the small number of their owners. They're the ones that have to be put on the diet. The civilizing work that we have to pursue calls for taking from the wealth produced the share that will be sufficient to guarantee the fundamental rights of everyone. In a word, what we recognize that your Mona Lisa is a fake is that she lacks perspective and gives the impression of looking elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u30	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u31	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u32	"France is afraid": it is this tragically famous phrase that some would like to include in the epigraph of this bill to finance social security. But France is not afraid. Our state and its population, which we represent, must not fall back on guilty postures. Besides, what would we be guilty of? For valuing the work and promoting interest? To have increased the purchasing power of several hundred euros per household? To have kept ONDAM at a historically high rate of 2.3%, as the President of the Republic had committed himself to it? For having redistributed money to the French, to all the French, and especially to the most modest? [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The crime of the State would be to plunder social security. Why would he then finance 14 of the 17 billion euros in emergency measures? What would it be in his interest, in this sense, to deprive himself of the billion and a half euros that social security should bring to him every year for the next three years? No one has noted this lack of compensation from social security to the state – evidence of a plea inspired by this tenacious and incomprehensible fear. When Roger Gicquel evoked a fearful France, he had not failed to say that this fear had to be fought, aware that it would lead to mad desires for prompt justice, immediate and direct revenge. Today we see the same tension in a political game that seeks to make the justice that we have been advocating since the beginning of the quinquennium, and that this text aims to strengthen – a social justice, responsible and above all lasting. This trial against non-compensation is carried out by amnesia prosecutors concerning the needs of the French, instigating a judgement of inquisitors. But there is no motion of prior rejection, nor can there be any request to justify this expiatory log to which some of us, this evening, invite us. Fortunately, the jury of this court is composed of the French; They have understood that the money remains the same, regardless of the pocket or colour of the wallet, that these billions of euros belong to our fellow citizens, that they constitute a whole and not, as some believe, of the budgets that are sanctified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u33	Yet 90% of the French support the strike in the emergency services!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u34	Let us not be mistaken: this popular jury sees unemployment falling, the purchasing power rising, the valuing of interest – further reinforced by this text –, the bonus-malus system that protects employment, as well as the administrative and fiscal simplification that it expected. This prosecution is also that of the hasty solutions, taken under the blow of emotion, which led some under the avenging blade of a popular guillotine manipulated by hatred and fear. To imagine that we could free ourselves from the European budgetary commitments made by France by manipulating this PLFSS is simply to condemn our country to the scaffold and our economy to the death penalty. We all hope for a flourishing economy. It is precisely because our fiscal policy is good that we have managed to maintain a high rate of growth in relation to our European neighbours. Whether one is an observer on the left or on the right, these economic considerations are always a subject of divergence. Yet today, our debates are evidence of a convergence of discourses against employment and purchasing power policy that we are leading. However, this dynamic economy remains the best guarantor of sustainable and essential revenues for our social security. Since we are debating the future of the social security budget and its future commitments, the anatomical metaphor is in order. Isn't the blood that conveys life in each of us always the same? Between arterial blood and venous blood is woven a complex network of millions of capillaries, all connected together, as is the budget of social security and that of the state. Such interconnection exists because all budgets are intrigued. In the end, this blood always has the same role: reaching and feeding the heart for life to last. This heart could be the French people who live at the pace of a health system that we must accompany and modernise. The Minister is working with all health professionals to restructure and revitalize our health fabric. Because an ONDAM remains a far cry from the concerns of caregivers, because it is wrong to suggest that compensation is correlated with ONDAM, because the majority's approach is part of pragmatism, we want to write a lasting and healthy story that gives meaning to the intimate and professional lives of caregivers in France. This sense is lacking today for professionals who put themselves at the service of others with passion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u35	We can see you're a doctor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u36	Making sense of a person's life does not buy itself: it is offered through coherent and structural measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u37	No, it's not available! Health professionals still have the right to be paid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to consider a text that is primarily aimed at preserving and restoring a fair and virtuous health system. This text responds to the expectations of the French, anxious to reconstruct the future of our health care system affluently. What are our fellow citizens waiting for? A debate about the dangling of a budget? I don't think so. To waltz the billions of euros in a closed vacuum does indeed seem surreal when we are told about difficult months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u39	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u40	Our fellow citizens want to regain purchasing power: this PLFSS will allow it. They want an efficient health system: ONDAM is less important to them than maintaining local care in community hospitals. It is therefore incumbent on all to act, now more than ever, in full responsibility but taking the necessary step back to appeasement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u41	Thank you, Mr. Borowczyk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u42	Stop! We've had enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude with Robert Badinter's words: "Those who hate do not know what present they are to the very object of their hatred. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u44	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u45	Sometimes a huge shock makes amnesia. In this case, it will not come from the promised results of the growth and improvement of social finances, but rather from the economic and social emergency measures granted by the President of the Republic at the end of December, under the pressure of the yellow vest crisis. We have repeatedly alerted you about the lack of funding for these measures, which you directly pass on to the social security deficit, which amounts to charging those who benefit from them and who have made continuous efforts over the last ten years to correct the social security accounts. Your speech, Minister, far from provoking the amnesia ictus, refers us to your promises last year, widely distributed, of a combined surplus of the general social security system and the old age solidarity fund of 700 million euros – "for the first time since 2001", you added. In order to finance your cascade of promises, you have decided to raise the ONDAM for 2019 to 2.5% instead of the 2.3% scheduled. Regrettably, however, social security is now back in the red as its deficit worsens to €5.4 billion this year. For 2020, you even have a deficit of 5.1 billion. So you don't do much better than in 2017. Mr Minister, you argued in committee that the main cause of the social security deficit was not the social anger you couldn't prevent, nor the expenses you let go, but a reversal of the economic situation. However, you have not been able to predict such a reversal, caused by a reduced growth and wage bill, which affects the return of contributions. Is the failure to forecast economic fluctuations an excuse? Last year, you voted for a quasi-freeze of social benefits for two years. However, the Constitutional Council has censored the registration for a second year of the under-indexation of pensions and family allowances, since the year 2020 is not covered by the funding law for 2019. You will therefore have to submit new under-indexing measures to the vote of Parliament. Thus, faced with an unexpected increase in social security spending, you postpone the balance of accounts and the horizon of the reform "my health 2022" to the year 2023, beyond the presidential quinquennium, which will affect the social debt. However, according to the Court of Auditors, "promptly achieving a sustainable financial balance of social security, irrespective of the hazards of the economic situation, is essential in order to completely extinguish the social debt linked to past deficits and to prevent it from re-establishing itself at the expense of future generations". In any event, the real shock of this bill on the financing of social security comes from section 3. We cannot accept the subterfuge by which you avoid compensating for the decline in social security revenues in order to finance the measures following the yellow vest crisis, caused by the lack of revalorisation of pensions combined with the rise in the CSG's pressure on pensioners, to which our group had strongly opposed. The State, responsible for this situation, chooses to put social security in deficit. The insured persons do not have to pay for the shortcomings of the State, attributable to the policy you are pursuing. By doing so, you undermine the remaining autonomy of social security. This has led, in the Committee on Social Affairs, to the indignation of all opposition groups and even part of the majority. The committee adopted an amendment to delete the substance of Article 3. These measures are contrary to the Social Security Act of 25 July 1994, which imposes the principle of compensation for the cost of exemptions from social security contributions. Indeed, exemption policies that reduce the resources of social security are all the more criticized as the latter's deficit is high. It is true that we have already experienced such practices, but that is no reason to continue in this direction. The rapporteur-general admits that the Charpy-Dubertret report, submitted in March 2018, which recommends bringing social security and state budgets closer together, is at the origin of this Article 3. For example, last year the Government had already taken inspiration from it. In a new reading, the insurance scheme, whose principle is to contribute according to its means and to receive according to its needs, had been challenged in order to be replaced by a universal scheme, in which social security revenues would be covered by tax measures. By deciding not to compensate for the loss of resources for social security caused by the exemption of social contributions on overtime and by the introduction of an intermediate rate of CSG on replacement income, you distort our social security model. Today, there is complete confusion between public finances and social finances. It is unwarranted to impose financial efforts on our fellow citizens to compensate for foreign deficits. Of course, it is necessary to realize savings, but you play the mistigri of the compensation of deficits. The drop-out of ONDAM hospital is evidence of this, with health facilities becoming an adjustment variable. The savings required from health care facilities between 2005 and 2020 amount to €9.4 billion and result in cuts to ONDAM's sub-goal, creating a feeling of deep injustice in the hospital community. By the very admission of the commissioners of the majority, the sickness branch can no longer finance emergency investments in hospitals, while the emergency services are going through a serious crisis and have been multiplying strikes since March. The presentation of a €750 million emergency restructuring pact and the granting last July of a modest €100 net monthly premium to emergency service professionals would be interesting if we knew where to find these amounts. In view of the fall in prices, the increase in discounts, the efforts made with regard to prescriptions and the reimbursements, the medicine alone will have to achieve almost half of the savings of €4.2 billion imposed on the disease industry. You are battling the pharmaceutical industry, which we need very much in our country. All healthcare professionals see this PLFSS as a real camouflage. After sixteen years of savings, you propose a text without prioritization, strategic vision, or imagination, as the system cracks. The rejection of this PLFSS is general. The majority of the social security funds expressed an unfavourable opinion, as did the mutual societies and patient associations. However, not everything is negative in this bill, whose enumeration of the provisions might suggest a bill containing various social measures. Some are even welcome, such as indemnification for caregiver leave. Yes, I am in favour of the contract to improve the quality of care, the demand for quality and relevance of care, the establishment of a post-cancer path and the commitment to reform the financing of psychiatry, follow-up care and rehabilitation. I am equally in favour of funding community hospitals. Yes, many measures are interesting and we will support them. However, we will note from this PLFSS that it has been scaffolded from a deficit of 5.1 billion euros, after a hole of 5.4 billion in 2019, that it is poor in measures that can earn revenue but that there is no lack of savings schemes imposed on health insurance. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In any case, the obstacle of article 3 must be overcome. That is why we will essentially make our vote conditional on the corrections that will be made to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u46	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u47	A year ago, at the same time, we all welcomed the announcement of the return to balance of accounts of the general social security system. However, this improvement was short-lived, as the social accounts situation deteriorated sharply in 2019 to reach a deficit of €5.4 billion. Consequently, the return to equilibrium originally planned for 2020 is postponed to 2023. We know the reasons for this deterioration, which, beyond a less favourable economic situation than expected, is the result of the decisions taken by the Government and the majority to respond decisively to the social demands that have passed through our country in recent months. We have wondered about the state's failure to compensate for expenditure on the social security budget, which runs counter to the principle of social security autonomy enshrined in the Veil Act. These questions are legitimate, especially as we have to face an ever more constrained budgetary equation. Variances to this principle have been regularly observed in the past, also in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u48	That's no reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u49	Beyond the technical measures of transfers between the State and social security, let us not forget that, for the French, these are the same taxes and expenditure, the same budget for our country. The essential thing, which must bring us all together, is the political will that public funds should always be used wisely, in the most fair and effective way possible, in order to improve the daily lives of our citizens. This fact commits us to continue the efforts undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium to guarantee more social justice. Indeed, social policy cannot be regarded as an adjustment variable. It represents much more than that: it is the condition of national cohesion, that cohesion that we need more than ever. Thus, the MODEM Group will support any measure that pursues the three objectives on which we committed ourselves in 2017: first, better control of our spending in order to ensure the sustainable balance of social accounts; the further transformation and simplification of the social protection system; Finally, the extension of the policy of reducing levies in order to increase the purchasing power of the French. This is the subject of several important measures contained in this PLFSS, which deserve to be stressed. First, we welcome the renewal of the exceptional premium introduced by the Act on Economic and Social Emergency Measures. This is a necessary and effective measure of valuing the work. However, we have a few questions. Will it not make the task of very small companies more complex if it is to be conditioned to an interest agreement? What about structures whose social purpose is not to make profits, such as associations? An amendment by our colleague Sarah El Haïry was adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs on this subject. We very much hope that it will again be adopted in open session, by a large majority. Also with a view to valuing work, we welcome measures to limit and prevent job disintegration. The increased incentive to use part-time therapy or "light work" in the event of an accident at work or occupational disease also goes in the right direction, as does the experimentation of a multi-disciplinary departmental platform to prevent the remoteness of the world from working. In addition, this budget invests more than 500 million euros in the construction of old age and autonomy, thus anticipating the law envisaged by the end of the year. This should, in particular, increase the recruitment of health-care workers in a sector that is in dire need of them. As such, we can only subscribe to the payment of the Gerontology Care Assistant premium to EHPAD care workers who have undergone specific training. Let us not forget, in this equation, the home care sector, which will benefit from an additional EUR 50 million and a measure to simplify administrative procedures for employers, through an experiment. This is a welcome addition, although this envelope will need to be substantially expanded in the future. We are also convinced that the success of caring for dependency will require greater synergies between home care and institutional care. Family caregivers play a fundamental role in this regard, as they play an essential role in keeping dependent, sick and disabled people at home. They are a decisive link in our health system, without which the care of people who lose their autonomy would become impossible. In this regard, they deserve our recognition and the establishment of appropriate mechanisms. This legislature has made real progress through the adoption of two legislative proposals: that of our colleague Paul Christophe aimed at extending the arrangement for the donation of untaken days of rest to family caregivers and that aimed at promoting the recognition of family caregivers, whose rapporteur I had the honour of being.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u51	[[Mrs. Justine Benin applauds]] Much remains to be done, however, and we are all aware of this. The Government had committed itself to providing compensation for caregiving leave; It's done in this PLFSS. We welcome this important first step. However, this can only be a first step, necessarily bound to evolve over time. Indeed, compensation as proposed by the Government in article 45 is particularly restrictive in its amount as well as in its duration. It is to be feared that it will prove insufficient and not adequately meet the needs of caregivers, who very often go beyond this period. Support for carers does not stop at financial considerations alone. The issue of health and prevention must also be taken up by the public, particularly young caregivers. Our group is making proposals to that effect, and we hope that the Government will hear from us, as the assisting plan is launched tomorrow. Also in line with the medical and social accompaniment, we look forward to the creation of a comprehensive care path after the treatment of cancer. This is an innovative and essential measure for former patients. We will propose to add specific measures for children aimed at, inter alia, improving the prevention and monitoring of paediatric cancers, in line with what our group has been defending since the beginning of the legislature. Finally, this year too, the MODEM Group wishes to express its disappointment at the lack of structural measures for family policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u53	[[Mrs. Justine Benin applauds]] The fact-finding mission on the adaptation of French family policy to the challenges of 21st century society, of which I am rapporteur, is currently carrying out substantive work on these issues. We will be able to propose in the coming months to move forward in this crucial area for our country. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] If this 2020 budget suffers from a real financial constraint, which we understand, it brings common sense solutions and meets several ministerial commitments. The MODEM Group will therefore support it, while sharing its proposals and points of vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u54	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u55	Today, we are beginning the examination of the third five-year PLFSS, in the context of an unprecedented crisis in our care system, coupled with a major social crisis. This PLFSS says a lot about how you view the future of our social protection system. To begin with, it will remain tainted by a return to the deficit: it is the result of a deliberate drying up of social security revenues that seals the renunciation of the full compensation of the social contributions exemptions introduced by the Veil Act of 1994. It is unanimous against it, as the social partners, the voluntary sector and healthcare workers converge in an unprecedented way to demand a re-evaluation of ONDAM to meet the immense needs of hospitals, emergencies, EHPADs and home help. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] The considerable efforts made by the French and health institutions during the last quinquennium have borne fruit, as the annual social security deficit has increased from over €20 billion to less than €2 billion. It would only be right for them to get something in return. But you have chosen to favour an ultraliberal vision of our model. François Mitterrand had predicted it, which stated: "They will go to retirements, to health, to social security, because those who possess many still want to own more and private insurance wait to take a low hand on the pactole. You'll beat your back to the wall. We have come to this moment of extreme fragility, which is the result of your budgetary choices for two and a half years. In the course of this debate, however, we will have the opportunity to show the French that there are other ways to consolidate our social protection model by ceasing to regard it as failing and costly in order to put it to better harm. Admittedly, this PLFSS includes some interesting measures such as the compensation of care leave, the complementary health solidarity or the consolidation of the system of guarantee of unpaid maintenance introduced in 2016 – however inexpensive measures, of which you will surely know how to make a communication tool to dress the whole text social. But let us not be mistaken: there is not much question of socialism in this text, which seeks above all savings. Thus, as you raise the amount of the AAH – the allowance for disabled adults – to 900 euros, you associate with this upgrading a consideration that will exclude more than 67,000 beneficiaries from the scheme by lowering the resource ceiling to 81% of the AAH for couples. In addition, the EUR 179 supplement for the most severely disabled will be abolished as of December and the new beneficiaries of the AAH will not be entitled to do so. You are putting in place a health supplement with the aim of limiting the abandonment of care, thus taking up a large part of the proposals of the association ATD Quart Monde. But you are announcing that you want to introduce a three-month waiting period as part of medical assistance for asylum seekers, contributing to the worsening of the health of the poorest among the poor. You are freezing the recovery of social and family benefits at 0.3%, even though inflation is estimated at 1.2% for 2020, which will lead to a loss of purchasing power for already weakened audiences. For the second year in a row, the increase in the RSA will therefore remain under inflation, devoting very little redistribution to the 4 million poorest households. What is the point, in this case, of developing a child-centred poverty strategy, when it is known that their parents' scarce resources will give them a different life from others, particularly in terms of housing conditions, education, access to outings and leisure? Free breakfasts and privileged access to the canteen will not prevent them from being born in the wrong place from the point of view of income. The Alert collective, which brings together associations to fight against exclusion, highlighted this last September: the poorest are in the dead end of the government's strategy. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches as well as on several LT benches]] To conclude, I will quote the signatories of the forum published today in defence of the National Observatory for Poverty and Social Exclusion created under Lionel Jospin, which you are considering deleting while it provides a remarkable job: it is not enough to "break the thermometer to stop seeing the patient". This is the philosophy of this PLFSS. It is still time to remedy this before the point of rupture is reached.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u56	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u57	A few weeks ago, a survey institute that everyone knows well asked the French about their concerns. The first topic was access to health care and health care. Minister, it is true that you inherited a difficult department. You know the picture better than we do: since last March, the strike movement started in Parisian hospitals has spread to 267 emergency services. On November 14, the doctors, chiefs of service, nurses and interns plan to mobilize to denounce a health system that is breathless. Last week, EHPAD staff were on strike to denounce their working conditions, lack of resources and lack of staff. Today, and for a period of three days, medical biology laboratories are closed to protest against a €200 million drop in funding that threatens the quality of care. That is the situation that we all have in mind when we begin the examination of the PLFSS. As you said yourself, this text is a political act aimed at meeting the expectations of society. At this point, it is mostly a missed appointment. I will concentrate on the problem of access to health care and medical desertification, as my colleague Jeanine Dubie spoke earlier on the whole text. Public and private health institutions alert us to their deficits, which often put them in a position to cover their current operating expenses. They call on us to rethink their funding, reinvent care pathways, think about increasing their resources and provide them with multi-year perspectives. You have set ONDAM at 2.3% for 2020, which is a decrease from last year; ONDAM is even at 2.1% for health facilities, below the natural increase in care burdens of 4%. In addition, you have chosen not to compensate social security for the emergency measures taken in response to the yellow vest crisis, which cost €2.7 billion. This is a debate to which I shall return, together with others of my colleagues. It is true that you have launched a new €750 million emergency plan. However, as Paul Christophe said very well this afternoon, it is not a question of additional appropriations but of redeployment of existing appropriations. Everyone understands the disappointment and concern of health professionals, who are even stronger than those of parliamentarians. They tell us they're afraid for their safety and that of their patients. Realistic, we also know that the economic situation forces you to reconsider your forecasts of balance and leaves you only limited room for manoeuvre in these budgetary arbitrations. But everyone understands that the very stability of our health system is threatened. Unfortunately, the imbalance in the provision of care is growing throughout our territory. Let us not lose sight of the issue of medical desertification: I was surprised to see that the PLFSS spoke so little about it, as if the action was already under way and the results were within reach. You will answer me that you have removed the numerus clausus; No, it's been a little bit raised. You will answer that you have opened 4000 posts of local medical assistants; How many were recruited? You will tell me that 400 assistant doctors will accompany the territories and the territorial health professional communities, the CPTS; How many were recruited? Has the EAP – exercise authorisation procedure – been improved? But you know that it is vital for foreign doctors who do not have a European diploma and who have to go through the hospital box for three years before they can work in city medicine. We need to increase our efforts. Of course, you will tell me that you encourage telemedicine. Grant me, however, that last year's letter from the Director General of Health Insurance, explaining that telemedicine was to be preceded by a passage by the general practitioner, causes many difficulties. My department has invested a great deal in digital technology, including 100 million euros to be covered everywhere at 100 megas, and I am unable to offer telemedicine consultations because health insurance refuses to take care of patients. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] All these issues are serious. You're obviously not responsible for everything, so much for it! The problems come from so far away! But everything is linked to the articulation of the health system. I will give one last example. I believe that you will celebrate tomorrow's anniversary of the CPTS – the President of the Republic has even chosen the CPTS which I was at the origin of the creation as an example in the plan "my health 2022". That's a very good tool. But please let the actors of the territory organize themselves! Make sure that the ARS only look at them from afar and do not come to explain to them how we organize and finance a CPTS! The actors know that very well; They need us to trust them. The health system needs confidence. Bring it to them and we'll help you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u58	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u59	It is also with honour and great responsibility that I find myself facing you. We had only 48 hours to read the hundreds of pages of this bill and to propose amendments before it came to committee last week. A budget of EUR 500 billion was discussed and voted in less than 14 hours, and some of you welcomed it! In this bill, my colleague Adrien Quatennens has skillfully demonstrated, you are slowly killing social security knowingly, deliberately, methodically. You then make it necessary to under-finance our hospitals, our EHPADs, our social benefits. For the past seven months, the inter-emergency collective has alerted you and alerted the public to the emergency crisis. This month, this struggle extends to the whole hospital, to all services. On 10 October, the inter-hospital collective, created to defend the public hospital, organized its first general assembly at the Pitié-Salpêtrière. Three amphitheatres were needed to bring together all doctors – first-time doctors – as well as users and many other professions – childcare assistants, midwives, psychologists, health professionals, nurses, administrative and technical staff. Two motions were voted on. The first calls for an emergency plan for the public hospital with the upgrading of ONDAM to the level of charges, the upgrading of salaries – especially for caregivers –, the closure of hospital beds and the hiring of staff. The second calls for general meetings and actions in all hospitals. Your former brothers and sisters, Madam Minister, organize actions via an e-mail loop, on which you have publicly ironed – "They don't know I'm in the loop" – criticizing their alleged incompetence. Many of them sit on settlement commissions and have participated in some restructuring. On the contrary, they are very aware of it and they want no longer to be fooled. On the doctor's e-mail loop, one of your friends, a professor at the Public Assistance - Hospitals of Paris, the AP-HP, informs the institutions that, in his hospital, pediatric surgeries had to be postponed and children transferred after cardiac arrest, for lack of space. Your courses of austerity and neoliberal economy have very concrete consequences for the daily lives of French and French people. No one knows about this situation anymore. A letter was sent to the President of the Republic by 108 personalities from the intellectual and performing world, 200 heads of hospital services and tens of thousands of citizens and users who protest against your policy. With petitions from the inter-emergency collectives and "Our lives first", more than 400,000 signatures together alert you to the current health crisis. In response, the proposals of the Government and the majority are astounding. You want to save 800 million euros on the public hospital. By doing so, you endorse the assumed contempt of power for the trades in struggle and the users. By stopping investing in the hospital by using the ambulatory turn as a pretext, you leave the walls of our health facilities rotting. This inevitably leads to the privatization of our health care system and the cutting-off of our hospital services. Thus, in Maubeuge, the hospital wonders about the opportunity to privatize its medical imaging service. In Maine-et-Loire, an entire hospital could be privatized. A first! True to the spirit of the National Council of Resistance and aware of the consequences of privatization in public services, we say no. On the contrary, it is necessary to give real weight to a public health system that is a lung of society, from maternity to EHPAD. Each time, we shake the red cloth of the hospital's debt, a debt voluntarily maintained by the government, which amounts to 30 billion euros for all of our hospitals. The reform of the funding of community hospitals provided for in this text will not change anything, since the budget is non-existent. By means of hospital groups, the community hospitals were stripped from the interior. And it is not by opening the doors of these hospitals to liberal doctors, under the guise of city-hospital partnership, that you will re-establish them! The same is true for maternity wards. As they close and regroup, the distances for mothers increase, as well as the risks. In this bill, rather than going back to this policy, you are proposing to set up hotels for pregnant women in the vicinity of maternity wards. You persist in the same perverse logic: to continue to close maternity homes in rural areas, to shorten care at birth to the maximum, and to make savings, always more savings. You will also review the funding for follow-up and rehabilitation care, psychiatry and emergencies. But whatever the method of financing – to activity, on the basis of population, to quality, where do I still know? – the logic remains the same: the overall envelope decreases in relation to needs and health institutions are fighting to try to pull their pin out of the game, a game where there are always losers. [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] What you do not say is that when you save on public services, you make the lives of hospital staff impossible and you impoverish the users. I take this opportunity to reply to Mr Borowczyk that, while the self-giving of caregivers is very important, they also deserve a salary. We're in 2019: excuse my language, but we're neither nuns, nor good, nor stupid. This time is over! Poor health care means chronic diseases and more frequent accidents. Which means hospital closures, says longer distances for patients and therefore more transportation costs. What says savings on emergencies, says worsening the state of health of the French. By continuing the destruction of health insurance, you will ensure that only the most fortunate will be able to maintain access to health care worthy of the name. The rigor for rigor makes no sense: it is absurdity. If the savings were made on drug price control, so on Big Pharma and its colossal dividends, we could have followed you. But your measurements are far too timid. For sure, the interests of the magnates of the pharmaceutical industry are preserved. In the absence of proper treatment throughout life, perhaps we could hope to be well cared for when old days arrive. Didn't you promise the French, Madam Minister, a great age and autonomy plan for 2020? However, if this plan is to come into being in 2020, we should vote on the accompanying funding from this bill. Where are they? Where are the funds supposed to be used in the old age and autonomy plan next year? Nothing! Zero! Nada! There is only €210 million for EHPADs and €50 million for home support, which barely covers the ageing of the population. It's making fun of the world! We already know that your plan will only be powder in the eyes, since it will not be funded. How can you mistreat, even one more day, our elders, by accepting that they stay for hours in their excrement for lack of caregivers? How can you continue to feel guilty about families placing their parents in EHPADs? How can you despise professions that experience the highest rates of industrial accidents and suicides in France? As the system cracks everywhere, all the federations representing users, all the trade unions, the National Union of Family Associations and the hospital federations have all called for an immediate upgrading of ONDAM, in order to respond to the current and future challenges of our hospitals. They all called for measures commensurate with the population's expectations for the care of old age and autonomy. If you don't listen to us, at least they, listen to them! Finally, this bill again freezes, by 2020, family benefits, benefits for accidents at work and occupational diseases, as well as certain retirement pensions. How can you? On August 23rd and 24th, during the G7, Emmanuel Macron met with multinational leaders and then with heads of state to discuss the reduction of inequalities. We'd almost have believed it. Inequalities grew unheard of in 2018, as soon as the first effects of President Macron's policy were felt; At the same time, the poverty rate has risen. That's what INSEE announced last week. Usually, these growing inequalities are observed in times of crisis. This was the case in 1998, when the internet bubble broke out, and in 2010, as a result of the major financial crisis. This time, however, there is no crisis, no external disruption, but full political choices: abolition of the ISF, flat tax, reform of unemployment insurance, and I am going through it. In this bill, as if that were not enough, you are deindexing social benefits. Every year, your savings on social security worsen inequalities. By 2020, they will amount to EUR 4 billion. I say it with seriousness: the policy you are driving is not annoyed, it is not the result of a simple accounting calculation on the corner of a table. You're creating a real time bomb. You create an explosive atmosphere and, above the market, you bring all these reforms to the yellow vests, saying that it was because of the measures that they had to agree that social security was so bad. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] It is therefore unnecessary to point out that we will vote against this PLFSS, a plan that liquidates social security more than it saves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u60	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u61	The profound transformation of the health system that we have been carrying out for the past two years is built, in a very pragmatic way, on the basis of the concrete concerns of our fellow citizens and is based on our trust in health professionals. This bill on the financing of social security embodies this ambition in the plan "my health 2022" and is more than ever part of this state of mind: to respond to the daily problems of everyone by having as compass the quality of care, the proximity and the development of the culture of prevention. What to do when you don't find doctors near you, when you have a chronic disease that requires regular care? What do you do when you have trouble getting treated, finding an appointment, if necessary, within 48 hours or even a doctor? On these issues of improving access to care, for the past two years, we have already moved from commitments to actions. Our action continues through this bill. This is reflected in the transformation of the funding of community-labelled hospitals: they will be able to take better care of the elderly, near their place of life and their loved ones, and provide them with simple, high-quality care. Treating should not rhyme with distance or uprooting. These community hospitals contribute to better access to care in all territories, involving liberal health professionals around a real medical project, built in a logic of cooperation between the city and the hospital – finally the long-awaited break-up! The PLFSS we are about to examine continues and consolidates these commitments as it gives a boost to proximity by adapting and, above all, securing the funding of these labeled hospitals. Encouraging proximity also means encouraging the installation of doctors throughout the country. On all the benches of the House, one hears tirelessly the observation on medical deserts. We're acting! A few months ago, we reformed the training of health professionals; We have also removed the numerus clausus, freed from medical time by developing task delegations, accompanied by the development of methods of collective exercise. In this PLFSS, we fight against medical deserts by promoting the installation of young doctors, through the creation of a single contract and new aids, in particular exemptions from social contributions. In order to improve access to the care of pregnant women, the PLFSS creates a new right to take care, through social security, of the transport, accommodation and accompaniment of pregnant women living more than 45 minutes from a maternity. Finally, our commitments concern the prevention and support of patients. While maintaining the principle of universality of protection, we need to take better account of individual life paths. We find in this bill the introduction of a package for a comprehensive post-acute post-treatment course for cancer, which will allow the 3 million people living with this disease to benefit from dietary advice, an assessment of their needs, psychological support and a proposal for adapted physical activity. More than EUR 10 million will be invested in this area. I am also thinking of measures to deal with contraception for minors under the age of 15 and the creation of the fund for the compensation of victims of pesticides. I cannot conclude without mentioning the hospital budget, which is being increased in this PLFSS by EUR 1.6 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u62	On a total budget of how much?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u63	In the face of the major transformation challenges associated with the ageing of the population, the increase in chronic diseases and the necessary upgrading of the healthcare profession, the debate – which we will have, let's not doubt – must not neglect the necessary systemic transformation of the hospital. Ultimately, this PLFSS is a budget that answers daily questions, protects the most fragile, opens up new rights and pursues a determined policy for quality care. It allows our health system to continue to respond to patient concerns, the needs of professionals and our prevention commitments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] More than ever Jean Jaurès is right, when he tells us that we must go to the ideal and understand the real.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u64	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u65	Just a year ago, the Government announced that, for the first time since 2002, social security accounts would go green in 2019. Since the crisis of the yellow vests and the statements of the President of the Republic of 10 December, this hope and dream have been far removed. Today, your draft budget devotes the return of the abyssal hole of social security, with 5.4 billion euros in deficit this year instead of the 700 million surplus expected a year ago. This serious situation seriously undermines the prospects for the future, especially since we are all waiting for a law on the old age, and all aware, also, of the costs that it will generate. Madam Minister, I still have to say that I welcome the decision of the Committee on Social Affairs which, in its very wisdom, decided to delete the provision of Article 3 of the PLFSS which provided for the absence of compensation by the State for the exemptions from social contributions decided by the President of the Republic and approved by Parliament following the yellow vest crisis. If our committee had not taken this decision – and provided you did not go back to the sitting, which we will still hope for – it would have been an additional €2.7 billion that would have missed social security. In short, Madam Minister, I must note that this PLFSS must not be for you the most pleasant to defend! As every year, I will focus on family policy and the family sector. This year, there are no long topics for debate, since this draft budget once again devotes the Government to the abandonment of families. Indeed, as I will have the opportunity to demonstrate to you by defending my amendments, there is no measure in this bill for families. While I was going through your text, I still looked for a few articles that could get closer to a semblance of family policy, and I found some.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u66	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u67	For example, I have noted Article 37, which consolidates the offer of accompaniment and care for pregnant women residing more than 45 minutes from a maternity. Article 38 is intended to regulate the financing of the Belgian offer for the reception of persons with disabilities. If I approve of this article – we have to find solutions – I would have much preferred that we could use this funding for a reception in France, with staff dedicated to the service of these people. Article 45 seeks to compensate for family leave of close care, such as parental leave and family solidarity leave, which allows for the support of a close relative at the end of his or her life. It ensures the payment of a daily allowance for a period equivalent to three months of work throughout the career. Of course, we agree with this article, although the limitation of leave to three months throughout the career seems to be weak in terms of the actual activity of caregivers. On the other hand, while the non-cumulative rules may be justified on certain benefits, we do not understand that the supplementary education allowance for the disabled child and the single parent supplement are part of these non-cumulative rules. I will mention again the creation of a public support payment service, which should finally speed up the collection of the pension by the beneficiary, and facilitate recovery from the debtor parent. During the previous quinquennium, notable progress had been made, in particular with the establishment of the Agency for the Collection of Unpaid Maintenance, ARIPA. But we know how difficult the procedure remains to implement and as the delays in the payment of unpaid pensions to generally fragile people – often, moreover, women with children – remain long and tedious. On this subject, I note the notorious effort of the family allowance funds, which will have to create 450 jobs for the establishment of ARIPA. Finally, article 49 improves information on access to early childhood care. This was one of the many proposals in the report on family policy, which Guillaume Chiche and I co-produced at the beginning of the quinquennium and which unfortunately aborted. I am surprised to see in this article the maternal assistants who, in my opinion, are self-employed. I will also defend an amendment on this subject. Together with my colleagues in the Republican Group, we will obviously approve these five articles. But we do not accept that, for the past seven years, no action has been taken to stem the decline in the birth rate, which is growing every year. There is no way to end PreParE parental leave, which we all know is a failure, while many young parents are still waiting for a better arrangement of their parental leave – why not a shorter and better paid parental leave? No measures to raise the ceiling for the family quotient, which was drastically reduced twice during the previous quinquennium. No measures to better reconcile family and working life, thanks to the creation of new nursery places, even though the success of your goal of 30,000 new places during the quinquennium remains very uncertain today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u68	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u69	Freezing of the financing of leisure centres and, worse still, the total lack of revalorisation of family benefits for two years now: such a policy remains far from what the families of France expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u70	Thank you, Mr. Lurton.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u71	You continue to transform our family policy, envied by all European countries, into a social policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u72	You really have to close!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We can only regret it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u74	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u75	Now is the voice of reason coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u76	We are here again in this Chamber to examine a PLFSS. This annual meeting is a must, as it depicts the situation of our health care system at the moment and offers answers to the challenges we face in the short and medium term. This year, the observation is clear: on the one hand, the situation of social accounts is less good than expected; On the other hand, there are many challenges to be addressed. Our role is not to comment on this observation, which is linked, beyond the budgetary considerations on compensation, to the measures we adopted last December, in conscience and beyond the majority, and which are now affecting the social security accounts. These measures were necessary and beneficial. This budget is courageous because, despite a tense economic context, it contains pragmatic measures that, in line with the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, will make it more agile. Our group welcomes the funding arrangements for community hospitals and the psychiatric ecosystem, which guarantee lump sum funding while developing a territorial allocation logic. With regard to the fight against medical desertification – or rather medical sub-donation – we also welcome the planned non-coercive simplification measures, such as the consolidation of incentive contracts for the installation of young doctors in the under-dense zone with the total exemption of social contributions for these practitioners for two years. The social security budget must also give greater visibility to health actors and provide our hospitals with consolidated resources. However, while this PLFSS contains some interesting measures for health institutions – funding project to the relevance of practices and prescriptions, an increase in the medical-social ONDAM – it is clear that the efforts requested from the hospital are in great contrast to the situation in which they are located. With an ONDAM of 2.1% for the year 2020, the effort required for this sector amounts to more than 800 million euros. These savings measures are not new: in the last 15 years, more than €8 billion have been requested from hospitals. In addition, the real hospital ONDAM is often lower than the one adopted by Parliament. If the question of reducing the resources allocated to the hospital is central, it cannot be dealt with as a whole, let alone the thorny question of visibility. In fact, today, health care institutions can hardly know exactly how much resources will be allocated to them for the current year before the year ends. This forecast is, a fortiori, even more difficult, if not zero, for the following years. As with any other sector, it seems essential that hospitals benefit from a vision – if not in the long term, at least in the short term – of their future revenues in order to better understand the evolution of their health expenditures. However, the infra-annual regulation of health facilities prevents long-term projections and results in a very restrictive lack of visibility for these actors. Multi-annual visibility on the development of financing is essential to make the necessary investments and adjustments. That is why our group will defend an amendment, adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs, to grant, on an experimental basis, a guarantee of multi-annual funding to health facilities, as this PLFSS allows for community hospitals. Such a guarantee would encourage health facilities to pursue a policy aimed at better coordination of care rather than following a logic of act production. It would also encourage the development of preventive measures, the only way to achieve medium- and long-term savings. As far as prevention is concerned, the MODEM Group also wishes to raise a major public health issue: the targeting of our young people by certain industrialists who offer them 16-degree beers in 500 millilitre format. We know that the earlier the consumption begins and the more alcohol the drink is, the stronger the addiction will be, with the social and health consequences that we know. In order to dissuade these manufacturers, our group will propose a strong taxation of these beers, because we know that, well conducted, this taxation is of dreadful efficiency – the reduction in the number of smokers as a result of the increase in the price of the cigarette package is the perfect illustration. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, although this subject is more a matter for the PLF, we welcome the creation of a budget document on cross-cutting public policy appropriations, "Budget Orange", which will allow us to better identify the state's spending on prevention and its evolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u77	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u78	Ministers, rapporteur-general, this is your third PLFSS. You are therefore fully responsible: this budget is yours, its stalemate too. This little precaution will allow us to avoid, in the debate to come, a little short and futile answers which would consist of saying: "It is not us, it is the others! " Madam Minister, the hospital is burning and Bercy is looking elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u79	How original!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u80	Beyond personal appetite, this is undoubtedly consubstantial to the function: after all, the Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith is not asked to say anything other than catechism. But in the face of this, we need a heretic minister who, in a way, resists. For the last 18 months, in the emergency services as in all the public services of a seriously ill hospital, it is the alarm. Doctors, nurses, caregivers, all tell us in unison, with gravity and infinite responsibility: they can no longer carry out their missions in good conditions. There is a shortage of staff, investment and sometimes even beds. The burden of activity and suffering at work are increasing, and the quality of care is affected. We are here, you as a minister, and we as parliamentarians. Let us agree that we have been asking for a lot of effort in the hospital for the last 20 years. Health personnel, who you know well, have made considerable efforts because of the increasing workload. Let us agree together that we are at a point of rupture. Numbers have increased by 2 per cent over the past 10 years, while hospital activity has increased by 15 per cent. The population is growing and aging. The progress of medicine allows to take care of new pathologies. Only here, hospital staff tell us that they can't do better with less. In this context, the level of the ONDAM you are proposing is due to vexation, to say nothing of provocation, since you are again asking for efforts and savings from the public hospital and the health care staff. The public hospital is a national treasure, you say, Madam Minister. You're right. It is because it is our common good that I would like here, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, to make some proposals which form the framework of what could be a contingency plan for the hospital. First proposal: massively support the investment in the hospital. We are faced with a paradoxical situation: for the 2007-2012 hospital plan, we have invested at the time when interest rates were highest, and now that interest rates are negative, we are disinvesting to the point that underinvestment becomes extremely worrying and observes the conditions for a good exercise of the missions of the public hospital. We call for three solutions to address this. First, we propose that all hospital centres be able to do the same as AP-HP and borrow on financial markets at negative interest rates rather than from banks. Secondly, we propose that the Social Debt Depreciation Fund, CADES, should recover 10 out of 30 billion euros in debt, in order to free up institutions' self-financing capacities. Thirdly, we propose that the financial assistance to these institutions be increased by 1.5 billion euros per year in order to increase the annual investment in our hospitals to 6 billion euros, which corresponds roughly to the assessment made by candidate Emmanuel Macron in the presidential elections. Second proposal: increase the hospital budget and raise ONDAM to 3.1%. This additional €840 million would enable real categorical measures to be taken to support the purchasing power of professionals who are among the lowest paid in the OECD, to seriously examine the issue of hospital staff and beds in the context of a dialogue between RSAs and institutions. Third proposal: undertake not to abolish any posts of staff working in the sick person's bed. To do this, we must repeal a standard that we have never voted for: the rate of one caregiver for fifteen patients to whom institutions are encouraged to reach by the Health Services Branch, DGOS. This is untenable and leads to inextricable situations. This can even lead to massive abolitions of posts, as we saw during the construction of the Grand Paris-Nord hospital or the Nantes hospital. Given the overprevalence of burn-out at the hospital, we propose to launch a large survey of working conditions. From this survey, we will be able to discuss ONDAM, which needs to be reformed, as it has become exclusively a tool for budgetary control when it should be a political tool for public health. We are also asking the general states of the hospital to put everything down in a pluralistic way, that is, with you, the minister, and with trade union organizations, patients, collectives and parliamentarians. These proposals, Minister, can be funded by a two-year deferral of social debt financing. The CADES may be terminated two years later than the expected deadline of 2024. This postponement would not at all obligate our public accounts. We add the compensation that the State owes to social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u81	Thank you for closing, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u82	[[Applause on the SOC benches and on several GDR benches]] These proposals, each one can make them his own on the benches of this assembly. When there's fire, it's better to grab the fire spear than to look away.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u83	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u84	The PLFSS for 2020, which we are starting today's review, reflects the political will of the President of the Republic to continue to value the work, while supporting the most vulnerable audiences. It also implements the reform of our health system and reinforces the logic of prevention. Finally, it reflects the desire to modernise and simplify our social protection system, a reform much awaited by our citizens. Since this is a budget text, it is necessary to focus on the major financial balances of social security. The text foresees a deficit in 2019 and 2020 due to the purchasing power measures adopted at the end of 2018. These emergency measures, which have improved the income of pensioners and workers, will effectively slow the return to balance of social security accounts as well as debt amortization. Members of the Group of the European People's Party take note of this development and remain vigilant of the objectives of balancing accounts and amortising social security debt by 2024. In this bill, I would like to pay special tribute to the emergence of a great measure of solidarity: the compensation of caregiver leave. This measure has been defended by many of us, in the Committee on Social Affairs, and in all political groups. You made a commitment to make every effort to do this, Minister, and you kept that commitment. In the future, our fellow citizens who suspend their professional activity to help a dependent, sick or disabled relative will benefit from national solidarity through a daily allowance for a period of up to three months. This bill also marks the fulfilment of a promise of the President of the Republic: to combat the non-payment of maintenance. In the great national debate, this problem emerged in a glaring way. The creation of a recovery service will provide greater protection for these families, often single-parent families, as well as for the ease of relations between separated parents, for the benefit of children. I also welcome social justice measures such as the indexation of pensions of less than EUR 2000 on inflation, as well as the continued exceptional upgrading of social minimums. Indeed, we hope that vulnerable audiences will be genuinely protected by national solidarity. We believe in social emancipation through work, and that is why I welcome the measures that enable our citizens to benefit from the fruits of their professional activity, in particular the renewal of the exceptional premium, as well as the improvement of the accumulation of a disability pension with professional income. The post-cancer accompaniment is also a positive illustration of the logic of a structured care path around the patient. In the same vein, I welcome the prospect of creating a platform to prevent job disintegration, aimed at facilitating the coordination of the actors involved in job retention. The inclusion of our elders and persons with disabilities is particularly prominent in this bill. As you know, Minister, Members of Parliament are strongly committed to the preparation of the next age and autonomy plan. We therefore welcome the provision of new funding for EHPADs and the home care sector. We also very much welcome the securing of the journeys of persons with disabilities in Belgian institutions. We also wish to assess precisely the development of an offer of alternatives on French territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of all these elements, the deputies of the Republic Group are expressing their support for this draft law on the financing of social security for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u85	[[Smile]] Oh, we're relieved!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u86	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u87	To the extent that all my amendments have been declared inadmissible, I present myself to you without much hope that you will hear in detail what healers and sick people have been shouting for months. The amendment calling for 100% coverage of compulsory vaccines in order to increase immunization coverage and make it universal, without financial consideration: inadmissible. The proposal to involve more health service users, patients, in decision-making processes with a view to improving what is called a health democracy: inadmissible. The one who advocated reducing the rest for some patients, when the cost of hospitalisation will strike their family budget for whole years: inadmissible. The aim was to create places in medical and social institutions for adults with disabilities while they are currently being kept in care for children or adolescents: inadmissible. The one that tended to allow health workers to work calmly: inadmissible. The one who wanted to give the means of their ambition to the public hospital, to the EHPAD, to the psychiatry, in short to all public health institutions: inadmissible. Take the example of psychiatry in France. The organization of mental health has been almost intangible since 1960. Psychiatry, however, is not a medicine for others: in France, one in five people will suffer from a mental disorder during their lifetime. The reality is alarming, far from the stated ambition. Why not try to establish a new relationship of the patient to his pathology, a new relationship of our society to mental health problems, rather than to consider confinement, yet expensive and ineffective, as the only remedy? Why not try freedom? Why not try to treat differently, to organize differently? After all, freedom is a wonderful care! Rather than wondering about patients and the work of caregivers, experimenting with new methods, your solution is to transform hospital pricing and extend it to psychiatric hospitals to eliminate institutions deemed too unprofitable. Hide those fools that we couldn't see, and in a low cost way, please! By reducing the room for manoeuvre of the hospital community here and elsewhere, you remove all freedom and prevent any initiative aimed at better care. Finally, the idea of providing a quality public health service to people who need it without checking that their wallet is well stocked seems inconceivable. So let us leave this comedy of the PLFSS for a moment and let us go a few steps from here to another theatre, that of the Palais Royal in Paris. It is February 1673. On stage, Molière and his troupe get involved in this unusual comedy that is the Imaginary Sick. For memory, Argan, the imaginary patient, gets all kinds of bleeding, purges, and absorbs various remedies prescribed by doctors more concerned with complacency to their patient than with helping to improve his health. His young wife, Béline, simulates caring care, but in reality waits only for her husband's death to inherit. But here's Toinette, Argan's maid, who exclaims: Do you not therefore see all these people, tired, exhausted, exhausted, and even crushed, as they move for you from dawn to night, from night to dawn, all for some miserable obolus?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u88	What a bad theater!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u89	Come back to earth, Mr. Nadot!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u90	Argan answered: What are they complaining about? I'm still the one who's terribly sick! They're doing a beautiful job, what else do they want? And then I'm not always satisfied! I wait, I die in coughing quints, I suffer, I sweat, it costs me the eyes of the head! And then they're only servants, after all! It is that these caregivers do not always have the means to exercise their priesthood, says Toinette.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u91	Good thing it's free!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u92	Oh, it's okay, Mr. Colas-Roy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u93	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] Anaïs Demoustier and Fabrice Luchini would play this comedy better than me, I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u94	A little lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Nadot continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u96	Do you know what happened to the fourth representation of the Imaginary Sick in this year 1673? On stage, Molière, in the role of Argan, was taken from a malaise. A few days later, he was dead. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches as well as on several LT benches]] The public health service is not an imaginary patient. Caregivers and patients are not hypochondriac. Together we can put an end to this tragedy of everyday life. Today it is up to you, Madam and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to decide this. I mean.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u97	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u98	I now call the articles of the bill, in the text of the Government, beginning with the provisions relating to fiscal year 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u99	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u100	Article 1 sets out the table of accounts closed. Let me refer to the particular case of a hospital in my constituency, the situation of which is the result of the choices we made. A few days ago, I received at my duty station the emergency workers of this hospital, after meeting them several times in the field. They gave me a list of their claims, in which they evoked the lack of equipment – including perfusion feet or stretchers, loaned by the operating unit – the poor condition of the existing equipment – the stretcher with broken barrier placed against the wall, the lack of space on the floors, the closure of fourteen beds this summer in medicine and surgery, the hospitalization on stretchers, the lack of caregivers – they are only two to take care of eight boxes... And the list doesn't end there. Staff, on the other hand, have sometimes chained fixed-term contracts for seven years. [[Caroline Fiat and Sébastien Nadot applaud]] The activity of this hospital has increased by 7% this year, but, as you can imagine, the resources have not grown as much. It was therefore staff who absorbed this increase in activity, even though non-medical personnel were reduced by thirty-one full-time equivalents. I have in my hands a petition signed by 3,000 people, at the initiative of the employees of this institution. This is a significant testimony of the deep crisis that the public hospital is going through and that we must act on. I hope that the debate that opens will allow us to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u101	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u102	Article 1 shall, as usual, approve the accounts of the last financial year closed. The 2018 financial year ends with a deficit result of €1.4 billion for compulsory social security schemes, including the Old Age Solidarity Fund. The deficit of the general scheme and the Old Age Solidarity Fund alone is set at EUR 1.2 billion. These forecasts, of course, show a marked improvement over the 2017 fiscal year. They could cheer us up. However, we were entitled to expect, by 2019, a return to the balance of social security accounts. This was not to mention the yellow vest crisis and the statements made by the President of the Republic on 10 December. We will see this when we look at article 1 of the PLFSS for 2021, but we already know that this return to balance is being seriously compromised today. For 2019 alone, a deficit of more than €5.1 billion is announced. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] According to Mr Darmanin, the Republican Group would be very welcome to criticise this situation since it voted for these so-called emergency measures. But it is to forget, first of all, that we are opposed to the increase in the CSG, the correction of which will weigh almost EUR 1.5 billion, and, secondly, that we strongly demand the defiance of overtime since the beginning of Mr Hollande's quinquennium, which gave ample time to budget this measure. Finally, we believe that it is in reality the savings that the State should make on its budget – savings that it does not realize – that could compensate for the decline in social security revenues. Health professionals, families, pensioners and all actors have made a great deal of effort over the past seven years; This is not the case with the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u103	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u104	Appendix A highlights the heritage value of health insurance. It refers to the problem of indebtedness, the curves of deficits, the balancing of pension schemes of RATP, SNCF or mines with subsidies. It also refers to the pension scheme of the liberal professions, in particular notaries and employees of the bar associations, i.e. lawyers. There are reserves and surpluses. Where exactly are they? What will happen to them? Will we have an answer or will we just have to read Annex A?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u105	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u106	We are now dealing with the second part of the bill, concerning the provisions relating to the year 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u107	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u108	Article 3 acknowledges the changes you wish to introduce in this PLFSS, and in particular a radical change in philosophy, on three points. First of all, Madam and Mr. Ministers, you pride yourself on showing sincere accounts. To be sincere, however, it would be necessary to clearly indicate who pays what. In article 3, the Government makes decisions for social security which it does not compensate for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u109	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u110	Since the Veil Act of 25 July 1994, exemptions affecting social security accounts have to be compensated by the State. This has always been the case, with few exceptions. Respect for this principle is essential to the sincerity of the accounts. You also induce a second bias, linked to a form of political insinuity. You place the responsibility for the future social security deficit on the movement of yellow vests, since from the beginning, 3.5 billion euros are missing. However, Madam and Mr Ministers, you had taken other decisions long before: by abolishing the ISF, for example, you were depriving yourself of EUR 3.5 billion, and that is precisely the amount that is lacking today to compensate for the social security deficit. This was a political act, but you could have had more intellectual honesty by recognizing that it is your decisions, not the yellow vest movement, that weaken the public accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u111	The Government could have had a little more imagination!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u112	The third point concerns the social partners, who are responsible for social accounts, certainly with you, but on the front line. You deprive them of 3.5 billion euros of resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u113	Please close, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u114	Article 3 runs counter to all our political principles, the sincerity of accounts and respect for the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u115	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT, FI and GDR groups]] I can't wait for you, Minister. You did not attend the whole discussion, but you should know that I have given the floor to all the groups. I let you be a minister; Thank you for letting me preside over the work of our assembly. Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u116	I wish to comment on the non-compensation of the exemption from charges provided for in Article 3. These exemptions come from the measures proposed by the President of the Republic for yellow vests. We have voted them and we do not contest them. However, non-compensation has consequences. On the financial side, it leads to a transfer of deficit from the State budget to the social security budget. Of course, the President of the Court of Auditors does not see the matter for debate in terms of the overall level of the nation's accounts. It can be recognized from a financial point of view. But from an ethical and moral point of view, the question arises differently, because the state budget is financed largely by income tax, progressive and paid by the 50 per cent of the most affluent French, while the social security budget is financed by contributions on labour. The transfer of the deficit from one budget to another results in the financing of these exemption measures being placed on the labour market. I do not dispute the fact that you can propose such a provision, but it would be interesting if we could really discuss it. Should national solidarity be paid by income tax or by employees and workers? For my part, I believe that it should be the responsibility of the State. This is a debate that we may have during the discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u117	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u118	Minister, I will repeat here what I explained a few days ago in the debate on the first part of the Finance Bill for 2020. You are definitely breaking with a fixed rule of time for an excellent health minister you have known well, Mrs Simone Veil. In 1994, it had decided to put an end to the situation which prevailed at the time and stressed the need for the State to assume its responsibilities and to compensate for the exemptions it decided. The aim was to empower the actors. You will reply that I am misinformed and that this is not the first time that this principle has been undermined. Of course, but this has never happened to such an extent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u119	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u120	One or two cases were identified. The study carried out by the Court of Auditors two or three years ago on all exemptions showed that the state budget reimbursed almost all the exemptions from social contributions, to a few hundred million euros. Now the sums at stake today amount to several billion euros! What's the point of doing this? In essence, the social security deficit is less visible than that of the State. After consolidation, one might think that this does not change anything, considering public finances as a whole, but in reality, if the basic social security schemes – in deficit of EUR 5 billion – are the responsibility of the State, this is not the case with supplementary schemes, which allow the overall surplus of social security. So all this is a very bad policy. As long as the 1994 Act is abandoned, everything is allowed. We are reassured by the decline in social debt, due to the fact that repayments are higher than new debts used to finance the deficit. But that's no longer the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u121	Please conclude, Monsieur de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u122	[[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] That is why we must oppose Article 3, as suggested by an amendment adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u123	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u124	Last winter, we passed a law on economic and social emergency measures, following the movement of yellow vests. At the time, we denounced the false gifts she offered because, instead of redistributing wealth and putting an end to the plundering of the most precarious classes, you took in the pocket of the least affluent to distribute crumbs in the pocket of others. This article is a striking confirmation of this, since it provides that the loss of revenue due to the exemption from social contributions on overtime will not be the subject of social security compensation measures from the State budget. It also provides for the creation of a CSG rate of 6.8%. It is therefore the beneficiaries of social security that will pay the high price of your measures. The Government has orchestrated a communication operation without any funding, in addition to continuing the dismantling of social security. This possibility for the state to no longer compensate for social security when it takes measures that affect it is very recent – you had it voted last year. With this possibility, you have endorsed the State's control over social security, whereas the State's budget was originally managed by the workers themselves and then jointly managed. This year, the lack of compensation already weighed very heavily on the social security budget, as it increased the budget of the general scheme and the Old Age Solidarity Fund from EUR 1.2 billion to EUR 5.4 billion. [[Murmurs. – Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Fortunately, in committee, we have voted for an amendment – one could say that the rapporteur-general has defended it well... – which I hope will be adopted again at the sitting; Otherwise, we're selling our social security to the devil!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u125	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u126	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u127	You first underestimated the yellow wave; Then you mocked her, then despised her; I mean, you were afraid she'd overwhelm you. You then dropped a few crumbs, but obviously refused to question your fundamental choices in tax matters – the gifts you had given to the richest in the finance laws that had previously followed. In other words, the few crumbs you had left the people – the poor – you were going to make them pay, organizing the impoverishment of social security through the mechanism explained by previous speakers. Due to the non-compensation, €2.8 billion is missing in the social security funds in 2019, roughly equivalent to the general system deficit – $3.1 billion. The measure, which was taken over in 2020, will help to dig the "secure hole" to the tune of 5.1 billion. All of this will then be used to justify screws and hooves – this last word in the blink of an eye to our colleague Valérie Rabault, who so talentedly husked the device that is in our hands (Sourries) – in short all the challenges to the social protection to which we are attached, to the service of our fellow citizens. You thus put on the people your own turpitudes; That is why we oppose Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u128	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u129	As you have understood, minister, minister: the issue here is the transparency of your intentions. So far, our model was clear: each one at home – the security on one side, the state budget on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u130	This is called the independence of budgets!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u131	This model has, of course, from time to time been hit by canifes here or there. But this year, things go further, because the sums at stake are high. In addition, the Government may intend to sustain this new model – you yourself suggest it, Minister. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] So we need to tell us your intentions. Is this the end of the social security financing law for a health budget integrated into the finance bill? Will there be, tomorrow, a total fungibility of the health insurance budget in that of the state? Is that what you're tending to, what you're preparing the French for? Is this the end of the Juppé ordinances of 1995? Is it an epiphenomenon, important but confined to the year 2020, or is it a policy that will continue to undermine the laws on the financing of social security?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u132	We come to the amendments, starting with the deletion amendments, Nos 509, 686 and 1086. I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 509.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u133	The rapporteur-general announced earlier that we would have this exciting debate tomorrow – the central debate of this text, in any case the one that caused the most criticism in committee and that concerns the largest number of our colleagues, some of whom could not be there this evening. It is a point of rupture: you take the responsibility, down from what has always been done, to allow the State not to compensate for the measures of exemption from social contributions. In this way, you are making all your tax choices on social security and on its insured persons. You always claim to increase purchasing power and pay, but in reality it's always: "Give me your watch, I'll give you the time! You take in one pocket to put some in another. We cannot accept Article 3. I appeal to both the Minister and the rapporteur-general, who, in committee, insisted on the centrality of the matter. Many of us here agree that, in the particular context of the examination of this PLFSS, when all the eyes, especially those of hospitals, are turned to our assembly, it is not acceptable for the State not to compensate for the exemptions it has requested from social security. I repeat, this is unacceptable. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The fact that you allowed the discussion to take place this evening, after telling us all afternoon that we would have this particularly interesting debate tomorrow in good conditions, is significant of your practices, the very ones we saw at work last night with regard to other amendments. It is not to your honour, nor to the honour of our work, especially with regard to such an important issue and during a crisis as serious as the one in the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u134	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 686.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u135	That has been said, it is an important debate that begins with the famous case of the rule of compensation for exemptions decided within the framework of the State budget, a rule which the Government wishes to call into question by introducing the possibility of non-compensation. In this case, revenue losses related to the creation of an intermediate CSG rate of 6.6% would not be offset by the State budget for 2019. In total, these uncompensated measures reduce social security revenues by €2.8 billion in 2019. It is a huge loss to earn – and to spend – for social security, which we all recalled the immense needs. We are told that the state has decided on exemptions, but has also made efforts, and that the security must do so as well. But we cannot reason in this way: on the contrary, we must sanctify social protection expenditure, especially at a time when there are dire needs in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I am well aware that the amendment that I am defending is not the right one, Mr General. That is probably what you are going to tell me, as you told my colleagues who defended it in committee – I did not then table it, but I did so in session to give us time to explain it to us in the context of the new organisation of the parliamentary procedure. By deleting the entire article, this amendment raises several technical problems. On the other hand, by adopting the one I will then defend, we could really give back air to social security and better finance the public hospital's expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u136	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1086.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u137	In 2017, during the review of the law on public finance programming, we were already alarmed by the intentions of the Government, which, on the pretext of introducing new relations between the state budget and the social security budget, already stood out of the 25 billion euros surplus expected at that time. For our part, we considered from the outset that it was to those who had made the efforts that their fruits had to go: to the social insured, to the public hospital and to its caregivers. The exception of last year becomes the rule: this year, like last year, the exemptions you have granted elsewhere will create a loss of profits for the social security budget. You claim that taking in one pocket or the other is the same for French and French people. But to say that is to forget the very nature of social contributions, which make the difference between net wages and gross wages. Thus, when you exempt from unpaid contributions, it is an illusory gift that you make, since you reduce the gross salary of our fellow citizens, that is, their full salary. That is why we are calling for the deletion of the article and the restoration of the clearing rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u138	Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on these three deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u139	Request for withdrawal or unfavorable opinion, as Pierre Dharréville had guessed, because they do much more than eliminate the non-compensation, which we will be debating in a moment. I am sorry that this debate is taking place tonight rather than tomorrow, but the general debate has been shorter than expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u140	You've organized your game well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u141	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] And it is not the fault of the majority that some registered Members have not come to speak in the gallery, Mr Quatennens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u142	If it's not unfortunate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u143	The amendments have the effect of abolishing the transfer of the State to social security of almost EUR 3 billion, also provided for in Article 3, resulting from the transfer of CSG entered in the PLFSS last year to take over the debt of ACOSS. In other words, the adoption of these amendments would lead to the opposite of what the authors want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u144	The Minister for Public Action and Accounts has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u145	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u146	I have before me sixteen amendments, Nos 1438, 697, 133, 207, 447, 458, 512, 688, 833, 850, 859, 1190, 1211, 854, 858 and 857, which may be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 697, 133, 207, 447, 458, 512, 688, 833, 850, 859, 1190 and 1211 are identical. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 1438.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u147	It is intended to delete paragraphs 1 to 12 of article 3 because, as we have said, we want the compensation to be maintained. I did not have time to elaborate on this point in my speech on the article, but we know very well how things are going: if you enter in the social security budget a shortfall of €3.5 billion in revenue, you will be tempted to ask in the course of the year 3.5 billion savings in hospital and health. But the public hospital is already out of breath, Madam Minister; Many of you have told you that right here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u148	She doesn't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u149	She's gonna finish it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u150	[[Applause on several SOC benches]] The financing of the measures in question should be provided by the State, as has always been the case since the Veil Act of 25 July 1994 established its principle. We oppose that you realize savings at the expense of the hospital in order to fill a lack of resources that is already felt and emanates from decisions of the Government, not from social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u151	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 697 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u152	I apologise in advance for spending a little time presenting this amendment, which was adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs by members of the opposition, but also by a few votes from the majority. What are we talking about when we talk about non-compensations for 2019? Four devices, actually. First, the intermediate rate of CSG on replacement income, fixed at 6.6%, for EUR 1.5 billion; This emergency measure was adopted to improve the purchasing power of the French. Secondly, the provision for the exemption of employers' social contributions from overtime for EUR 1.25 billion, which was also part of the emergency measures package for purchasing power. Thirdly, the exemption from the social package, which drew the consequences of the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE, for EUR 600 million. Finally, the effects of crossing the income threshold on which the CSG rate for pensioners depends are smoothed to around €200 million. In Article 3, you are proposed to derogate from the Veil Act adopted here in 1994 whereby any public policy decision affecting social accounts is compensated by the State through an abundance of social security funds. This rule has experienced exceptions in recent history, usually followed, however, by a catch-up of compensation through VAT transfers or other tax means. As I said in committee, the Veil law was passed unanimously – Mr de Courson, who spoke at the time, will remember, as well as other Members present – with the exception of the Communists who saw it as a masked way of raising employer contributions. The derogation referred to today has already been implemented last year, but in another context. It was then intended that the social security accounts would be surplus, and the Charpy-Dubertret report – which was not submitted as such to the vote of the parliamentarians – concluded that, as the state was heavily indebted, the security had to contribute to the nation's effort to balance the accounts. This year, on the other hand, social security is in deficit, for various reasons which have been recalled. It is with or without compensation: it has also been said that the economic situation did not allow us to reach balance this year. However, the Charpy-Dubertret report is obsolete since the surplus is no longer valid; This is one of the arguments put forward in committee. I have heard a number of arguments, including the one still raised in the general discussion, that non-compensation would have a negative effect on the hospital's budget. But that is not true: there is no link between compensation and the level of hospital ONDAM.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u153	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u154	Let the rapporteur-general conclude, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u155	One can have an integral compensation for social security while having the same level of hospital ONDAM. Proof of this is that, long before the non-compensation, it had been foreseen in the programme of the future President of the Republic that the ONDAM would be set at 2.3% per year during the term of office – this will still be the case next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u156	Your time has expired, Mr rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u157	Do you mean, Mr. President, I'm only allowed two minutes?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u158	Indeed, and you have exceeded three minutes. I would point out that, under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, "interventions on amendments, other than those of the Government, may not exceed two minutes". Amendment No 133 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard is being defended. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u159	I strongly believe that if we do not maintain the position adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs, i.e. the deletion of paragraphs 9 to 12, so that the state budget will continue to compensate the social security budget for the deficits caused by exemptions adopted in response to the yellow vest crisis, it is all the branches of social security that will pay the broken pots in the coming years. I would stress only one point, since I have already spoken extensively about Article 3 in the general discussion: it seems to me particularly important to note that if the Commission has chosen to delete paragraphs 9 to 12, with the support of a majority, it is because this article, in its original wording, raises a real difficulty. I would find it very unfortunate that those who voted for the deletion of these paragraphs in committee do not confirm their vote in the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u160	They're cowards!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u161	On this series of identical amendments, I am seized by the Republicans, Socialists and Related Groups, IDU, Agir et indépendants, Libertés et territoires and La France, who have not submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 447.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u162	I would like to say to Gérald Darmanin that, since 2017, we have always recognized that the sincerity of budgets, including those of social security, is on the table. He will grant me that this is no longer the case: a breach has been opened, there is no longer a leak between the general budget and that of social security. As Charles de Courson pointed out, such breaches had unfortunately already been opened a few years ago, and this can happen again. But the most serious thing, and on this point I do not agree at all with the rapporteur-general, is that there is a shortage of EUR 3.5 billion. You know very well, Madam Minister: proof of this is that you are obliged to find 4.2 billion euros of savings in the PLFSS in order to respect the notions of elementary budgetary balance. You struggled to launch a €750 million emergency plan over three years, but without this $3.5 billion puncture, you could have put a lot more money on the table to help our hospitals and other sectors. It is clear that the account is not in this budget for 2020, which reflects a Hegelian vision. We in the Libertés et territoires group are not Hegelians but disciples of Tocqueville: as such, we trust decentralization and those who, in charge, are able to make the right budgetary decisions. One last thing, ladies and gentlemen: in a few weeks we will have to discuss pensions. Imagine the small signal that we are already making this evening by taking 3.5 billion euros from the security budget to finance a measure for the yellow vests that we have almost all voted for! Will we do the same thing tomorrow with the self-employed, while a reserve of EUR 16 billion has been set up on supplementary schemes? Isn't there a risk that the breach will grow again? I ask you, minister, to think carefully about it. If we can understand the notion of exceptional circumstances, I am not convinced that trust is in the way of future texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u163	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 458.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u164	With this amendment, I intend to ask the Government for an explanation of its real intentions. Is this non-compensation planned for a single year or is the financing of social security on the road to statehood? In the latter case, this is a political choice that requires a genuine parliamentary debate. In the absence of an explanation, it is necessary to confirm here the vote which the Committee on Social Affairs has expressed with great courage, despite the opposition of its chairman and rapporteur-general. I therefore propose to delete paragraphs 9 to 12 pending clarification of the Government's intentions and political choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u165	They're not telling us everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u166	I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 512.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u167	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Since it's almost midnight, I want to say, "Three-band pool shots are enough! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u168	Go back to your foosball!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u169	[[Same movements]] Tell us all afternoon that this debate will take place tomorrow, in good conditions, it is once again a demonstration of your practices... In fact, we are discussing these amendments at midnight this evening. I understand that it is not because of you that some of the speakers in the general debate have not presented themselves, but, finally, all this has to be organised!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u170	Two-ball reasoning!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u171	The method you use is well known. English researchers have theorized it: it is about creating the conditions of a financial hole, and then lamenting it in order to justify other policies. This evening, at midnight, with this vote, which is going to be a break, you will say that the state will no longer be able to compensate for the exemptions and therefore the deficits it imposes on social security. It is a paradigm shift that will take place at midnight in our Chamber. We can see the balance of power that is being expressed. This does not seem to be the great agreement between the rapporteurs and the ministers, and we understand why! Everyone knows how this happened in the Committee on Social Affairs: the rapporteur-general was, it must be admitted, more on the side of the opposition when it came to defending social security in the absence of Minister Darmanin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u172	The rapporteur-general was very brave!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u173	But he was taken back on a leash!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u174	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the LR, UDI-Agir, LT and GDR groups]] Tonight, we can see that you don't agree. Get a little out of your gonds, Mr. Rapporteur-General! Dare to defend what you always claim to defend: social security. Because at this time, she's the one who's involved. And that's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u175	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 688.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u176	The Veil Act of 1994 introduced a simple principle: any measure of exemption or reduction of employer contributions should be fully compensated by the State. At the time, Mr rapporteur-general, we were opposed to this principle because we were opposed to exemptions and therefore to everything that followed, including compensation. Twenty-five years later, we are trying to prevent circumvention of this principle in order to preserve the financial autonomy of social security, because this autonomy is of paramount importance to us in order to finance our health system, our hospitals and social benefits. According to the Government, the non-compensation is justified by the application of the doctrine of the 2018 Charpy-Dubertret report, which has not been approved by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u177	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u178	This report calls for a review of the comprehensive compensation rule for general reliefs, which, let us recall, represent a total of €66 billion for 2019. We can see how far this logic of non-compensation can lead. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there has been a small moment of parliamentary affirmation since the majority of Commissioners voted on these identical amendments, after a small debate in the majority. This is an extremely strong signal: we have shown that the PLFSS cannot remain as it is and that this non-compensation was unacceptable. This looks like an arrangement between the state fund and the security fund – a bit like Monopoly when a player also holds the bank. This is a confusion, a mixture of genres. I propose that we go back to simple principles, and in this case we confirm, for the sake of the soundness of state finances and social security, the separation between the two. Our group calls for coherence: the crisis of hospital emergencies cannot be deplored, while at the same time depriving itself of the means to deal with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u180	Mrs Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 833.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u181	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This amendment is intended to delete paragraphs 9 to 12 of Article 3 because, for years, all social protection actors and families have made great efforts to bring social security accounts to balance. I am not going to talk about the situation of hospitals, emergencies and EHPADs, which are now breathless. As for the family branch, which should have had a surplus of EUR 7 million in 2020, there is a risk of a deficit of 6 million. The Government proposes savings to the detriment of family policy, even though the family is the bedrock of any society. As my colleagues have said, it would be much better to compensate for the social security budget rather than to depreciate the efforts made over many years to correct its accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u182	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor to support Amendment No. 850.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u183	It will have been understood that the non-compensation by the State of the measures taken under the Act on Economic and Social Emergency Measures raises questions, even beyond the fact that it contravenes the principle of compensation adopted in the Veil Act to protect the social security budget. There are two important deadlines: the construction of dependency, of course, but also the financing of pensions. Paragraphs 9 to 12 seriously weaken the social security budget. I would also like to ask you, Madam and Mr. Ministers, about the message sent to all those who have been mobilizing for several years to help raise social security accounts. In particular, I am thinking of all healthcare workers: moving from a surplus perspective in view of their efforts to a deficit perspective in alarming proportions as a result of uncompensated decisions certainly does not help to encourage this dynamic of efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u184	Since you have the floor, Mr Christophe, do you also want to support Amendments Nos 854, 858 and 857?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u185	These are back-up amendments in the event that Amendment No 850 is not adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u186	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 859.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u187	In addition to what has already been said, I would like to point out that all the social security funds have expressed an opinion against the proposals made by the Government, which is unprecedented and illustrates the seriousness of the case. That is why we also propose that compensation be reinstated. Mr rapporteur-general, if we appreciate the balance of social security as a whole, there is a clear link between these non-compensations and the situation in the hospital. The Government is putting all social security under stress, quite voluntarily, without returning to those who have made considerable efforts the fruit of their sacrifices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u188	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u189	[[Other movements]] On the basis of Rule 50 of the new Rules of Procedure, which has been the subject, everyone remembers, of intense discussions in the Committee on Laws and even of disagreement on the part of the various opposition groups. But one point has been noted: the evening meeting must be adjourned at midnight. This measure has not been taken to take account of the fatigue of Members, which is of little importance, but to prevent our House from passing major decisions, engaging the lives of our fellow citizens, without being fully informed and above all that all Members have the opportunity to use their right to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u191	However, this is a major issue since, for the first time in a long time, the principle of compensation is being called into question and therefore the possibility for the State to play with the social security deficit is enshrined in the law. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] I call the Rules of Procedure to ask that such a major issue, which is so crucial for the security and its balance, be voted on tomorrow, not in the middle of the night, when Members cannot debate it in any meaningful way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u192	If we follow your reasoning, Members should be present until midnight and then we should be complete!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u193	Mr Jumel, it is my wish to be pleasant to you, but I am also anxious to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are respected. Rule 50, paragraph 5, provides that "the Assembly may, however, decide to extend its meetings". To this end, I must consult the House, by a vote which does not give rise to any debate, to know whether we are continuing our debates, in this case until the consideration of Article 3 is completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u194	What a masquerade! You're sheep!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u195	Are you proud of what you're doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u196	I take note of the Assembly's decision. I did not vote for the reform of the regulation, but I am applying it and we are continuing to examine the identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u197	The rules are the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u198	[[Smile]] If we had, at the time, lifted the session at midnight, there would have been no night on August 4th!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u199	[[Same movements]] No provocation, please, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u200	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 1190.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u201	[[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are still faced with a somewhat special history. Minister, you're introducing your third PLFSS. For my part, this is my eighteenth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u202	As for me, I come to my twenty-sixth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u203	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT, FI and GDR groups]] I've never seen a case this sad and dramatic. You will bear a heavy burden: that of breaking with the autonomy of social security as it was built in 1945.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u204	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u205	Of course, you are basing yourself on the Charpy-Dubertret report, delivered last year, in order not to compensate for the exemptions from charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u206	This is not a parliamentary report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u207	However, this report was not even debated in the Senate: it was simply the subject of a hearing. You are drawing out a sentence that suggested that we should not compensate for the exemptions from social security charges: out of the three proposals in this report, you have only one. This document was also drafted a year ago. The situation has since changed, since it is now a matter of compensating for the measures you have taken to respond to the yellow vests, paving the way for this dramatic story. We had supported the Government by voting in favour of emergency measures, but today you are bearing the burden of social security in the amount of about 3 billion euros, which leads to a major and serious deficit. I am sorry to tell you this: you are thus inaugurating a rule which may become permanent, and which would mean the disappearance of social security as we have known it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u208	That's what they want!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u209	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir and SOC groups]] We therefore call for voting in favour of these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u210	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1211.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u211	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I regret that this discussion takes place at midnight, in catini, despite your commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u212	Stop! This discussion is absolutely not taking place in catini!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mrs Ménard continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u214	You refuse to compensate for the cost of the measures that Mr. Macron decided to take in connection with the yellow vest crisis last December. This derogation from the principle of compensation will obviously have serious consequences for the balance of social security accounts, since its deficit will be increased by almost €3.8 billion in total. The impact will be particularly serious – as has been said – for the family branch, which will be in deficit and will see any hope of a true family policy die. It will also be particularly serious for all those who have been making significant efforts to reduce the social security deficit for years and will be somewhat blurred by the measure you intend to have voted for tonight. I therefore propose, like many of my colleagues, to delete paragraphs 9 to 12 of Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u215	What is the opinion of the committee on all these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u216	I take my argument back where I had arrested her. Everyone knows – I have had the opportunity to say so – where my preference is for compliance with the Veil law in the area of compensation between the State and social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u217	Say it again, it won't hurt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u218	[[Claims on several benches of the LR and SOC groups]] I set out the reasons why I was personally attached to this compensation. I must also explain why I was opposed to the adoption of this amendment in committee, as I am opposed to it at the sitting. The reason lies in the legal imbroglio in which we would go down by adopting these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u219	You had to think about it before!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u220	The excuse is easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u221	You must express the opinion of the committee, not yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u222	A little calm, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u223	I delivered the committee's opinion earlier: I am speaking as rapporteur-general. I note a confusion of the votes between the PLF and the PLFSS since, in the debates on the finance bill, no consequence of a waiver of these non-compensations was made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u224	There have been amendments in the meantime!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u225	In doing so, we would feed into the discourse of the proponents of a merger of the two texts, between the State and social security. I say this very quietly: I am opposed – and will remain – to any merger of the texts, because we need to keep a social security budget borne by the social partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u226	And a sincere budget, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u227	That is also the respect for the functioning of our bodies since the creation of social security in 1945. I then observe a confusion between the offsetting by budgetary appropriations and the offsetting by what is called the "VAT pipe", which would in reality be extremely complex to mount,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u228	But we've been doing it for years! It's not possible to hear things like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u229	... creating genuine constitutional insecurity, as the PLFSS would not take into account the provisions adopted in the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u230	We know how to handle this complexity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u231	Let the rapporteur-general speak, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u232	I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the State has given up, in return, substantial transfers promised to it, from 2020, by the Social Security Financing Act for 2019, in a context of surplus social security – I mentioned just now the sum of EUR 3 billion, stressing that it should not be abolished under Article 3. I repeat: yes to the clarification of the relations between the State and social security, with an autonomous social security budget, which is intended to last in time. No, on the other hand, to the confusion between the state budget and the social security budget, even though the rules have become complex over the years because of the fiscalisation of social expenditure – begun with the creation of the CSG, which was obviously not our fault. Non-compensation must be the exception, not the rule. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] I pledge that, on the occasion of the next spring of the evaluation of social finances, we can associate majority and opposition to the evaluation of all the compensations and non-compensations of the last twenty years, in order to clarify these questions. Let everyone remember that a large part of the social security deficit for 2019 and 2020 is not linked to a deficit in the management of the various branches or to weaknesses in management by the social partners, but to public policy decisions that we claim, in view of the gains in purchasing power obtained for the French through emergency measures. No one, it seems to me – at least on the benches of the majority – regrets these measures. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, let us devote our collective energies to defending the most important issue, which is independent of non-compensation: that of the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u233	Mrs Cendra Motin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u234	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] The Finance Committee has been seized of Article 3 and voted against these amendments – of course – for several reasons. The Government is indeed submitting a non-compensation decision. You mentioned, Mr. Grelier, a "political choice." This choice has actually been made since 2004. Let's make a little history: in 2004, non-compensation amounted to 2 billion euros. Between 2007 and 2013, it reached €3 billion. Between 2014 and 2016, 4 billion euros were not offset to social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u235	Don't throw any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u236	What were the positions concerned? Contracts assisted in public administrations – the so-called EACs, employment support contracts –, trainees in vocational training, or the ACCRE – help unemployed entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs in a company. Since 2017, what has changed is that we compensate for this relief.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u237	Stop talking nonsense! We will provide you with a list of all those we have compensated! That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u238	[[Applause on several benches of the LR, SOC and FI groups]] What has changed over the past two years is that non-compensation fell to 2.8 billion euros in 2017, and then to less than 1 billion in 2018. That's what's exceptional!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u239	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u240	The first part of the PLF, which we have just voted on, also foresees an increase in the VAT contribution, from 26% to 27.75 %. But let us not forget that VAT is a dynamic recipe. I mention it because I heard that social security was financed by social contributions. That is true, of course, but it is also true for a quarter by VAT and for a quarter by taxes affected. It must not be forgotten: balances have changed since the creation of social security in 1945.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u241	That's exactly how you want to transform the system!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u242	Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the Charpy-Dubertret report, which I had the opportunity to hear from the editors. This report was requested by the Prime Minister and was therefore not necessarily intended to be presented to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u243	The parliamentarians should not interfere!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u244	I believe, however, that it will be useful for us to have a discussion with its authors. This document deals with the structure of the financing of social security. It does not take stock of the situation and does not propose options that would apply to the context of last year: it is a much more technical and structural report, which proposes a redefinition of the social security financing balances that we could adopt. There is no question of having this debate in its entirety today. On the other hand, we will have to have it in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u245	You really think we're idiots!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u246	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mr Vigier, you explain that by voting on these amendments, we would be freeing up more resources for ONDAM. I thought you wanted to reduce the deficit. If you vote in favour of these amendments, then it will not be to get more money for ONDAM – you understand that there is no link – but simply to reduce the deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u247	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u248	My excellent colleague Sébastien Jumel made a point of order earlier. Let me tell you, Mr President, that your answer should not be satisfied. If you want to be demanding and scrupulous in accordance with the Rules of Procedure – I believe this is your duty – I would remind you that Rule 50(5) of the Rules of Procedure, referred to above, states that "the Assembly may, however, decide to extend its sittings either on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents for a specific agenda, or on a proposal from the committee before it, a group chairman or the Government to continue the current debate"...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u249	I am sorry, honourable Member, but I suggest that you shorten this debate: the case that you are referring to applies if the Government asks that the debates go beyond the schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u250	We didn't hear it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u251	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u252	Does the Government ask for an extension of the debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u253	He'd have to talk already, for that to happen...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u254	[[Laughs and applause on various benches]] You have not escaped that I am not a member of the Government. It was on another part of the paragraph that I relied on to seek the opinion of the House. I remind you, honourable Member, that in order to make a point of order, you must refer to a specific rule, which you did not do when you spoke. I will allow you to continue, but I believe it is in our best interest to apply scrupulously a regulation in favour of which, I repeat, I did not vote. I do, however, enforce it, because that is my duty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u255	Suffer, Mr. President, that I will finish my remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u256	[[Smile]] I'm in pain, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u257	I am referring to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure. You say that the vote you requested corresponds to a request from the Government. However, I have never heard this request: it has not been made officially,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u258	You had to listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u259	...you simply interpreted it as such.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u260	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I just said the opposite, Mr. Member. The case you are referring to, namely the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, is in response to a request from the Government. But the case to which I referred, i.e. the compilation of the Assembly's opinion on the continuation of the debates, simply follows a request from the chairman of the sitting. I now propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we resume our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u261	What is the Government's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u262	The debate we have is wide-ranging. I would like to bring it to you with the Minister of Solidarity and Health. This issue is important; The rapporteur-general is right to say that she will rest and that she will have to be determined by laying down the rules as clear as possible. Everyone agrees. [[Applause and laughter on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] This debate deserves the time we have devoted to it since our discussions in committee, but also since the beginning of the general debate. The Government does not consider the issue to be technical and needs to be resolved quickly, without responding to the arguments put forward. Perhaps these arguments should not go – forgive me, Mr Door, perhaps your eighteenth PLFSS leads you to be somewhat emphatic – until you put on my shoulders the weight of the National Council of Resistance. I also wondered, listening to you, if I was not suddenly personally responsible for the Second World War. However, I reassured myself that this was a simple argument from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u263	It's disgusting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u264	Let the minister continue, ladies and gentlemen! Continuing the debates beyond midnight does seem to present a certain danger...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u265	I told you, Mr. President! I therefore propose that we stay there for tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u266	The subject is important and I will try to respond to the arguments of the various speakers who spoke – a little during the general discussion, a lot about the article and, of course, defending their amendments. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Mr de Courson made an important argument, which I do not want to caricature. In his view, governments easily discuss the basis and the complements or compensations that will have to be made, but when it comes to the action of the social partners, they frontally attack paritarianism. As you rightly said earlier, Mr de Courson, when we witness the Minister, when we attack the governance of the social partners, there is something wrong – and that is not what we are proposing. In fact, in our proposal, whether it is UNEDIC or AGIRC-ARRCO, compensation is made to the nearest euro. This is a very important point and we can agree on something general. As some speakers have pointed out, in different circumstances, with different amounts and under different majorities, relations between the State and social security, without any question of attacking the decisions of the social partners. Mr Vercamer concluded his demonstration by pointing out that while social security was financed by proportional contributions based on work, the State financed its public policies through income tax, paid by the richest, which raised many questions. I would point out, however, that the main tax revenues collected by the State are obviously not income tax revenues, but largely VAT revenues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u267	Unfair tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u268	The most unfair!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u269	I would point out that the current government was not in charge and that successive governments – I look at the leaders of the Socialist and Related Group and the Republican Group – accompanied these measures, which are not to be discussed again here. Today, the state gives social security €57 billion from VAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u270	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u271	Mrs Rabault, I listened to you, thank you for listening to me. Mr Vercamer's argument is therefore not really admissible. Mrs Fiat, defending a position close to that of Mrs Rabault, accused us of simultaneously attacking the autonomy of social security, and even giving it to the devil.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u272	It came out on its own!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u273	It is to be forgotten that at this very moment it is up to the elected representatives of the nation whether or not to authorize the measures proposed by the Government and that it is you who, in large part, vote for the social security budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u274	Not us, but the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u275	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] If you were responsible, you would propose amendments and discuss whether or not to increase ONDAM, take action on pensions, pursue a more ambitious or costly family policy, and be on the verge of dependency. The representatives of the nation decide, not the devil! The fact that it is not social security or the social partners who decide, but the representatives of the people, who authorize or not the measures proposed by the Government, by amending them, does not seem to me to be undemocratic. It even seems to me very much in line with the Veil law. Returning to the provision we are considering, I would remind you that you voted – including in the opposition – on the measures proposed by the Government before the major debate. I certainly do not blame the parliamentarians for having, in the urgency that was necessary last December, accompanied the decisions of the President of the Republic: in the debates that were held at the time, and in which the Minister for Solidarity and Health and the Minister for Labour participated here, the question of non-compensation was not the urgency of the moment, and I do not make it a substantive argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u276	You had to hear the wave of anger!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u277	However, the measures of the PLFSS for 2019 were decided by the Government before the yellow vest crisis, and the majority as the group The Republicans – but not the Socialist and related group, which I acknowledge – voted as one man the desocialization of overtime, which applied in September and whose article 17 of the PLFSS explained black and white that it was not compensated. Mr Door, finding out today that starting in January what was to start in September is to attack the very principle of the PLFSS is not an acceptable argument. Moreover, you yourself regretted that the Government did not desocialize overtime earlier, as Nicolas Sarkozy had done, and wished that, in addition, it would detract from it. Moreover, history has given you some reason. However, you voted for these measures by accepting the idea that they were not compensated. So your word is not up to the stakes. The social security gap, which now stands at EUR 5 billion, was 5.4 billion, or about the same amount, when we came to the responsibilities. The measures decided by the Government and voted by the Parliament amount to 2.5 to 3 billion euros, the rest to be attributed to the deterioration of the economic situation. At the same time, therefore, that we would have removed this compensation, the social security hole would not have been removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u278	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u279	It's proof by the absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u280	[[Exclaims on several SOC benches]] I should like to make that clear, in order to avoid the possibility that the removal of the measures proposed by the Government would be sufficient to ensure the balance of social security accounts. Furthermore, the measures we have put forward in the law on public finance programming and the principle of those contained in the Charpy-Dubertret report have been adopted by Parliament, in particular by the majority, which has accepted the law on public finance programming. The report was forwarded to Parliament and the Senate, which wished to hear from Messrs. Charpy and Dubertret. It is true that there has been no legislative text calling for an agreement, as the rapporteur-general has rightly pointed out, and we will probably have the opportunity to discuss it again. Still, a number of topics were included in the PLFSS for 2019 and in the stability programme, which was put to Parliament's vote last April and provided for various allocations of funds between the state and social security. This does not mean, however, that it should not be discussed more formally, and I hear Parliament's request in this regard. If we applied what was planned, imagining that the State compensates for the social security costs, it would pay 2.8 billion euros to the latter, but the latter would then have to pay 3 billion euros in surplus to the State – 1.5 billion euros under the CADES, which cannot be repaid today since the balance is not reached, and 1.5 billion euros which had been accepted by the majority in the name of the sharing of effort, at a time when the state deficit was very large. The approximation of these two figures – EUR 2.8 billion and EUR 3 billion – therefore does not constitute a threat to the financing of social security by the measure proposed today. Finally, Mr. Grelier, the Government's intention is not to merge the financial texts. Moreover, that was not included in the draft constitutional law or in the draft organic law that the Government had submitted to Parliament. There is therefore no merger of the financial texts, not even a reduction in the time for consideration of the finance bill, sometimes requested by the rapporteur general and by the chairman of your Finance Committee, as well as by the two chairmen of the Senate committee. So let's not imagine wolves where there are none: this is only a particular situation, which we propose to you today. In short, this is an important matter, but of course it does not call into question the functioning of social security and respects the vote of parliamentarians. If the committee's amendment were accepted, the sum of EUR 2.8 billion would have to be compensated and social security would have to repay 3 billion to the state. The exchanges that take place here do not match the difficulties. In particular, the consequences you derive from the situation about the hospital seem to us to be quite disconnected from reality. The Government is ready, especially if it is introducing a bill on public finance programming – which it will do, because the Prime Minister has written to the rapporteur-general, who has asked for it now – but we will have the opportunity to talk again about this division between the state and social security after the review of the pension bill and after Brexit, after having devoted a little more time, work and reflection, and in a way perhaps a little more dispassionate. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Government therefore hopes that these amendments will be rejected so that we can move towards the reduction of taxes, the increase in the purchasing power of the French and the protection of the most vulnerable, which are the real content of this PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u281	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u282	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u283	My position will be as balanced as possible,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u284	Sometimes I prefer unbalanced positions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u285	...even if some of you speak of hidden intentions. I understand and agree with you that the balance of social security is a political object in itself. I am also careful to ensure that the State and social security budgets, as well as the laws that affect them, are separated. However, the discussion on clause 3 should not overshadow the real and beautiful debates surrounding this bill and the very fine measures it contains.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u286	This is an essential debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u287	Finally, I would like to return to the constant link between the state of the public hospital and non-compensation. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on the SOC and FI panels]] [[Same movements]] Mr Vallaud, you have just said that there was a link between non-compensation and the situation of the hospital, with all the sacrifices that the caregivers have made. No: the link is between the policies that have been carried out over the past twenty years on the public hospital and the situation of the latter. Mr Vallaud, it was during the five years you were in government, between 2012 and 2017, that ONDAM's growth rates were the lowest. They've been much higher since we were in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u288	Go tell that to the hospitals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u289	In 2018, we had the first rising rates in ten years. When you left, the deficit was 1 billion euros;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u290	Who was in power? Dussopt! Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u291	[[Same movements]] ...I cut it by half last year. Let us move on to theory: non-compensation does not alter ONDAM, whose level of 2.3% was a promise of the President of the Republic. We even raised this rate last year to 2.5%, when we voted in the same PLFSS for non-compensation, which means that there is no link between the level of ONDAM and non-compensation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to point out that the 2.5% of ONDAM that we voted for last year represents an additional 400 million euros in relation to the President's promises, which now form the basis of the social security budget. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Long protests on the benches of the SOC and FI groups]] In conclusion, Mr Vallaud, you will forgive me for attacking you, but you have presented me with a great emergency plan for the hospital by inviting me to use the fire hose. Coming from an arson fireman, it's a little big!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, let us strive to work in peace, serenity and mutual listening. I shall now give the floor to one representative from each group, if he so requests. The importance of this Article justifies going beyond what is provided for in the Regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u293	Mr President, I ask for the floor because of a personal question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u294	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u295	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, your answer was so predictable! That's very disappointing. Earlier, I mentioned twenty years of considerable effort requested by all governments in the public hospital and in the health care system. As far as I am concerned, I have not been in the Government for five years – I have even spent less time as an advisor to the Elysée than you have now spent as Minister of Solidarity and Health. Take on your responsibilities! I assume mine as a parliamentarian and am responsible to the voters. Minister, I have made specific, questionable proposals like yours – we are ready to discuss them. I have said, like you, that social security is part of our heritage and that I agree that a pluralistic meeting should be held, bringing together parliamentarians from all benches, trade unions and users. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches. – Claims on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, we have the right not to agree with you. The richness of the parliamentary debate is not to silence others by pretending that if we do not agree with you, then we are against France. You're happy with yourself, minister, but I don't feel that the hospital staff is so happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u296	Yes! If there's insults, there's gonna be a fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u297	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u298	[["No! » on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] According to Rule 54(5) of the Rules of Procedure, "in the interest of debate, the President may authorise a number of speakers to speak in excess of the number laid down in these Rules of Procedure". That is what you announced a few moments ago, Mr President, in proposing to give the floor to one member of each group. But there are several amendments. Would it be possible for the authors of the amendments to be able to express themselves as well?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u299	No, Mrs. Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u300	It's a good attempt, but it's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u301	I ask for a suspension of the meeting because I would like to discuss with my group who will be taking the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u302	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u303	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u304	As I have announced, I will give the floor to the representatives of each group. First of all, Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u305	The debates are a little surreal tonight. Between the inflaming and invective minister one of our colleagues, and the rapporteur-general who takes advantage of the imbroglio that you have helped to create, I admit that it is a little complicated. It's even excellent! You are arguing about the inextricable situation in which you have put yourself in order not to move. We must realize that we are talking about a particular subject, social security, which is a matter of a certain republican tradition. Don't dislike Mr Darmanin, who was derising things just now, it is a common good to which we are still sensitive. You yourself, Mr.Minister, said the same thing when you were a member of our group, but no doubt, it was a different world and memory is lacking – as in the song, it is fading. Little by little, you're doing a renationalization. It's very clear, and that's what we want to put forward tonight. You exclude the social partners; you are removing large sums from the social security budget. We have the right to do so – this is what happens in other countries – but it is not the French model to which we are attached. By putting an end to the compensations, or reducing them, in a way, you make the yellow vests pay what you gave them a few months ago. This reminds me of Alphonse Allais' quote: "You have to take the money where it is, that is, among the poor. Okay, they don't have a lot of money, but there are a lot of poor people. » [[Applause on several benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] Here's a little bit of progress tonight. I find it deplorable. We could have debated important topics such as hospital, ONDAM, or much more positive aspects, but because of your stubbornness, you create the conditions for a dialogue of the deaf. That is regrettable at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u306	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u307	Mr Minister, €57 billion in VAT revenue has certainly been paid to social security, but it must be brought back to the social security budget, which amounts to €490 billion and of which 60% comes from employees' contributions. You are transferring a deficit from the state budget to social security: I therefore come to the conclusion that, for you, national solidarity must be financed by contributions from employees. I'm worried about your lack of consistency. The Government advocates the competitiveness of enterprises. However, you weigh the deficit on employees' contributions. Which, therefore, necessarily the employees, and finally the companies, who will pay. But I'm worried about the future. You said we'd have to flatten the clearing rules. You also stated that compensation for the social partners is calculated against the euro. However, Article 31 of the PLFSS provides that the funding of the National Medicines Safety Agency and that of the National Public Health Agency shall be transferred from the State budget to the social security budget. They will certainly be offset to the euro this year, but we are not told if they will be so next year, because there is no question of partitarianism in this case. Perhaps you will decide next year, once this transfer has been made, not to compensate again. We have no visibility. I therefore propose that we adopt the same amendments and that you subsequently provide us with a clear doctrine so that we can know what the guidelines are for future compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u308	Very good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u309	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u310	I will not repeat the words of the previous two speakers, with whom I agree. You have to decipher the meaning of your proposals. What building are they building for today's and tomorrow's social security? I do not quite have the answers to these questions but still perceives a small siphoning operation in progress. We can see where she's stopping today, but we don't know how far she'll go tomorrow. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] If we are confronted with non-compensations, it is because massive exemptions have accumulated. The right is not for nothing in this situation, nor has the previous governments, and Emmanuel Macron himself has undoubtedly played a role in recent years. However, in the two previous PLFSSs, these exemptions have not borne the desired fruit. The results are not at work, including in the social security budget that we are looking at today. As you said, Madam Minister, Emmanuel Macron promised that ONDAM would reach the level of 2.3%. In principle, promises are dreaming, but this is not the case. The ONDAM will also be discussed during our discussion – much later, of course – as it is probably one of the nodes. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Mr rapporteur-general, you have called on us to do so in the spring of the evaluation. For my part, I am simply proposing an autumn of the right decision and not of the derogation. On my behalf and on behalf of the committee, I would like to deliver a favourable opinion on the identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u311	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u312	Clearly, the non-compensation by the State of social security expenditure is a matter of debate. In any case, it raises several questions. Madam Minister and, before her, our colleague Cendra Motin, very calmly recalled that discrepancies had already been observed and that the fate of the hospital was not being dealt with here, now, tonight. I want us to remember the commitments made by the President of the Republic on 10 December, as well as the measures taken to improve the purchasing power of the French in response to the yellow vest crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u313	You make them pay, with the gifts you give them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u314	Let us also remember that this budget is also marked by a reduction of €5 billion in taxes. Our duty today is therefore to continue the effort undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium, in a spirit of solidarity but also of responsibility. We have a responsibility to correct the accounts, and if it is a commitment dear to my group, it is this one – and not the one to increase the debt. However, we will keep the demand for greater social justice as a compass. So, Madam and Mr. Ministers, we will be very attentive to the commitments and strong measures you will take for the hospital, for the caregivers, for the dependency and, of course, for the family. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, as a matter of responsibility and with demand, we will vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u315	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u316	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u317	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] We are therefore talking about EUR 4.3 billion uncompensated over EUR 17 billion through the allocation of VAT. You say that this is not directly related to the state of the public hospital. Still! The simple fact of assuming a breach of this rule of compensation is a problem in itself, beyond the catastrophic situation of the public hospital. But it is the law on the financing of social security that breaks down the appropriations. If the state compensates for these sums, we could, of course, in this budgetary period, decide to allocate these amounts to the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u318	We would still be in deficit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u319	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Everything starts from a fundamental disagreement between us. According to you, contributions are not wages – you have already said so. You even claim that by lowering contributions, you increase wages. In fact, you simply reduce social security revenues. You say you're giving gifts, you're giving back purchasing power. In fact, you say to the French: "We will give you gifts, but you will pay the resources necessary to make them, you will make them and you will even pack them. » Ladies and gentlemen, you agree that the funds containing the contributions of employees and employers in our country should be used as adjustment variables. You agree that the rule resulting from the Veil Act of 1994, which requires the State to compensate for the loss of revenue caused by the exemptions to social security, is no longer applied. You agree that the caisses should be governed by decisions taken by the President of the Republic alone, without consulting the employees or employers who manage these caisses on a joint basis. You agree to break social security, we are not. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If you were so sure of your arguments, you could live up to your commitments. I would remind you that the amendments that will be put to the vote in a few moments are those on which, in committee, we have won and the majority has been defeated. It is therefore amendments which have received a favourable opinion from the committee. Who will change his vote at this hour, and to please whom? Is it Bercy and Mr. Darmanin's whip that you're worried about tonight?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u320	The committee is not the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u321	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u322	I would like to return, Madam Minister, to two points that you have raised. You say that nothing has been done for five years; This is your opinion, but the social security deficit was 21 billion euros in 2012, and closer to balance when you came to the responsibilities. In addition, you refer to ONDAM at 2.3%, but this rate is lower than growth in value. This means that you do not even give social security the benefit of our country's current growth, let alone that of yesterday's. Mr Minister, you are referring to the €57 billion in the "VAT pipe". For my part, I am talking about the compensation which the rapporteur-general's excellent report gives the precise sum: EUR 44 billion. Other exemptions were not compensated; We could have some fun doing the math, but we're not in the order of magnitude that you're making by mentioning $3 billion. I would like to read to Mrs Motin on page 975 of Volume II of the excellent report by the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, of which I am a big fan: "The PLFSS for 2019 has endorsed a change in doctrine with regard to the principle of compensation. So you want us to move into a new world. The rapporteur-general also recalls, Mrs Motin: "General reliefs are fully offset by the allocation of State revenue to social security for the balance of any account. Finally, he says on the following page: "This new doctrine" – it is therefore a new doctrine, even if you do not assume it – "has been formalized by the Government's report to Parliament on the renovation of financial relations between the State and social security". Yes, you want us to enter into a new doctrine, and we know very well that it will have consequences. You can say that this will have no impact on the future savings you will be asking in the hospital; However, in this PLFSS, you ask it to save 4.2 billion euros where last year you asked for 3.8 billion euros. Your requirements therefore increase from year to year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u323	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u324	[[Applause on several SOC and FI benches]] Minister, since you have been in charge, you have repeated that you are a fan of the sincerity of accounts; But the sincerity of the accounts are well-kept accounts, each on its own. Social security must therefore be compensated, and the State must assume the responsibility for compensating its decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u325	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u326	I realize that Joël Giraud was kind. Indeed, we learn that this is not really a new doctrine since non-compensation has already been used before, sometimes in a somewhat masked and hidden way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u327	I'll pass you the page in question, you'll see for yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u328	[[Protests on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Speaking of honesty and transparency, everyone should be sweeping in front of their door! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond this question, we have adopted important measures for the French, which could increase their purchasing power. We're talking tonight about non-compensation; I have not yet had an answer to the question of the non-compensation by social security of the loss of the State's revenue. No one is talking about it, but this year we are going to vote on it. The subjects are intrigued and sometimes complex to unravel, but the argument that clearly argues in favour of Article 3 is the improvement of the purchasing power of the French and the measures in favour of the hospitals on which the minister has committed herself. The Group of the European People's Party is therefore calling for these amendments to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u329	[[Smile]] A point of order must be made in order to protest against the question put by the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, even if he refuses to defend himself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u330	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u331	Valérie Rabault rightly quoted the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, who referred to a change in doctrine. We do not want to sue anyone, but in the Committee on Social Affairs, Olivier Véran was himself disturbed by this new logic – you cannot say the opposite, Mr General, I have read your comments –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u332	I'm not saying otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u333	... which consists of punctuating the social security budget to compensate for decisions taken by the State. Reference is often made to the President of the Republic, but I would like to point out that, in announcing measures to respond to the yellow vest crisis, he said that they would all be offset by savings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u334	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u335	We're gonna tighten the screw again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u336	The numbers are stubborn; Not only are savings not at work, but in order to close the bill, we are obliged to make use of the social security budget. Yes, Minister, I can find this statement from the President of the Republic: he had explained well that the 17 billion euros of new measures would be fully financed by savings. There are therefore €3.5 billion in savings that have not been realized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u337	It's written black and white!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u338	Madam Minister, you said earlier that we had made a link between ONDAM and non-compensation. This is not the point: I simply said that in your budget, you were getting €5.2 billion in deficit while being obliged – as you know better than I do – to demand €4.2 billion in savings from hospitals and other sectors dependent on your ministry, whose report provides a detailed list. The 3.5 billion euros that had to be sought from the social security budget could therefore have been used to finance the actions carried out by your ministry,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u339	Yes, that money could have been used in the public hospital!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u340	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] ...in particular in the direction of hospitals and emergencies. That's an argument you can't dispute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u341	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u342	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Unlike Members of the La France group, I am one of the Members who voted for economic and social emergency measures in December 2018. To take a position, I had consulted with the citizens of my constituency. Today, I think I am blurred: if I had known that the money would then be raised from the social security budget, I would certainly not have voted that way. The method of looking for money, a posteriori, in the social security budget does not correspond to the canons of the French budgetary strategy and seems to me to be really problematic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u343	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 697, 133, 207, 447, 458, 512, 688, 833, 850, 859, 1190 and 1211.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u344	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 145 Number of votes cast 144 Absolute majority 73 For adoption 51 Against 93
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u345	Can we know what the rapporteur-general has voted for?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u346	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 510.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u347	The Court of Auditors' 2019 report shows that the debt of social security is increasing, in particular as a result of the increase in the exemptions from social contributions, endangering our collective social protection system. To remedy this, the decline in the CSG as practised by the Government is not the solution. A new balance is possible by drawing on the highest wages, according to the fundamental principle where everyone contributes according to his or her means and receives according to his or her needs. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to raise social contributions on the highest wages. Indeed, today, high wages contribute at the same level as the lowest wages. National solidarity – the basis of our social contract – must be restored by strengthening the contribution of people to the highest incomes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u348	On Article 3, I am seized by the Republicans, Socialists and Related Groups and Libertés et territoires of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 950.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u349	[[Smile on the benches of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This is a fallback amendment; Even if I don't like this solution, I'm still going to try to convince you to adopt it. I am speaking in particular to our friends in the MODEM group, who are very numerous tonight. You have almost the majority on your own, so the wrong decisions we have just made are yours in a certain way! Losses in social security revenues related to the State's non-compensation of social contribution relief measures will reach €2.8 billion in 2019. While a principle of full compensation has been in place since 1994 to guarantee the financial autonomy of social security – I would remind you to defend the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, who was the victim of a personal challenge earlier –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u350	That's a good one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u351	... Article 3 of the PLFSS ignores this. The non-compensation is justified, according to the Government, by the recommendations of the famous Charpy-Dubertret report...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u352	Excellent report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u353	... which has not been the subject of any real debate or approval by Parliament. According to the report, some revenue losses related to social security exemption measures do not require legislative intervention in the law on the financing of social security and are thus exempt from national representation. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the FI group]] This withdrawal amendment provides that any further derogation from the principle of non-compensation established by the Veil Act shall be the subject of a vote by the social security funds. This is a way to reintroduce the social partners and social democracy into the system. In recent years, the caisses have made a great deal of efforts, partly taxed, to limit their spending; it would be fair to give them a right of control over uncompensated revenue losses in return.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u355	I will reply to Mr Dharréville and return at the same time to the previous debate. I take note of the hand extended by the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, who proposed that we parliamentarians set a doctrine for the future. You know my position: I personally want non-compensation not to be the rule, but the exception. It will therefore be up to us to determine the cannons to follow. The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance clearly does not agree with me, but his opinion does not commit the Committee on Social Affairs. It is the wealth of our Parliament that we have two committees to deal with the state budget and the social security budget. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Instead of asking the caisses for a proper vote on the social security budget and on non-compensation, I propose that this vote should be organised in the best possible conditions, as soon as next year, in Parliament. I'll give you an appointment in the spring of the evaluation to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u357	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u358	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u359	The rapporteur-general gives us a lot of appointments in the spring of the evaluation – at this rate, a spring will not be enough – the same day that President Ferrand says we are evaluating too much. Yes! François de Rugy called for much evaluation, but President Ferrand changed his doctrine. The minister proposes to define a doctrine; he suggests that we reaffirm the rule of compensation and border the device. This is exactly what Pierre Dharréville's amendment proposes to do this evening, without waiting for spring, autumn, or the Saint-Glinglin either. Take this opportunity to fly by voting this pragmatic amendment! We will certainly not have solved the problem of the uncompensated billions this evening, but vote on this intelligent amendment which does not refer to Parliament's arbitration later!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u360	[[Smile]] Maybe we're not going to decide in the middle of the night...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u361	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u362	Like Comrade Jumel, I think it would be better not to postpone this discussion to the Saint-Glinglin. Indeed, as we voted on the emergency measures last December, we were told: "But you will see much later! Don't worry, everything will be well taken into account in the PLFSS and the PLF! Everything will be compensated to the nearest euro! A few months later, we forgot – except for a few who remember it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to deal with the subjects at the moment when we are considering them, without waiting for the Greek calends, because to postpone too much there is no longer a great world to remember them and to wage the battle – that is where the Government is more skilled than the army of parliamentarians that we are. You said earlier, Mr Darmanin, that we were taking the lead for little, that part of the VAT product was already paid into the social security budget and that the share of wage contributions was, in the end, rather reduced. But don't forget that the VAT points allocated to the financing of social security are essentially, if not exclusively, to compensate for exemptions from employer contributions and employer contributions. The majority of the social security budget is therefore composed of wage and employer contributions. Secondly, a series of exemption decisions are taken by the State, by Parliament; They are then compensated, failing which you are going to squander us with the "security hole" and I do not know too much what deficit to encourage us to make efforts, savings... That is the heart of the matter, not the technical considerations through which the two ministers tried earlier to persuade us that all this had nothing to do with the public hospital. However, this debate has a direct bearing on all the issues we have discussed this evening. You keep trying to create a deficit on the backs of workers, caregivers, people who are gallant. It's unbearable for all of us! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote at least for the common sense amendment by Mr Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u363	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u364	The rapporteur-general said that non-compensation was not the rule, but the exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u365	That's what I hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u366	[[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] Well, listen to this speech and let's not see that kind of exception again. You must not, Minister, provide for the non-compensation of expense relief each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u367	It would be Gascon's promise anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u368	I put Rule 3 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u369	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 132 Number of votes cast 131 Absolute majority 66 For adoption 89 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u370	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-22-O1036.u371	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
