ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal for a law on the passage of the theoretical test of the road code in secondary schools (No. 2351, 2442). As the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has rejected the bill, we are looking at the text that was originally before the House. On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u2	In accordance with Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall call only the amendments and the article to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u3	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont, alternate rapporteur for the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, supported Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u4	[[Roland Lescure, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, applauds]] First of all, let me address to my colleague Jean-Louis Bricout, who initiated this bill and whom I am modestly replacing, my friendships and my wishes for prompt recovery. The purpose of this bill is to integrate learning and the examination of the road code in high schools. The aim of this amendment is that the current experiment in Thierache can be extended to the rest of the country, as provided for in the Education Code. Tools allow these experiments to be multiplied, notably the law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust, which has considerably expanded the opportunities offered to schools in this field. Subject to the prior authorisation of the academic authorities and after consultation with the teaching teams, experiments can now be launched for a period of five years, under conditions defined by decree. Local and regional authorities are also systematically involved in defining the broad guidelines for experiments carried out by national education and in their territorial variations. However, the current scope of experiments is strictly concerned with the organization of the class or institution, as well as with questions relating to the teachings and their modalities. It therefore appears necessary to extend it in order to include the teaching of the road code and the passage of the theoretical test. That is why this comprehensive drafting amendment aims to insert a sentence in Article L. 314-2 of the Education Code so that the experiment carried out in Thiérache can be launched in the other territories that wish to do so. This amendment has been rejected by the committee, but I am of course in favour of it personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u5	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u6	He's unfavorable. Indeed, the interest of passing the theoretical test of driving permits in schools in high school is already highlighted by an article of the Education Code which provides for the possibility, for pupils who wish to do so, to do so outside school time. By the way, the half-day of awareness introduced by a May 2015 circular is unevenly applied in institutions. In addition, the reform of the high school and the applied baccalaureate since the beginning of 2019 implies strong organizational constraints for schools in the three classes of the general and technological high school. An additional constraint on school time cannot be added in the current state of affairs. In addition, before we generalize an experiment, we need to know the first results. Since the one you are talking about was launched last September, we do not have the necessary setback. Finally, the law for a school of trust already allows to conduct experiments on broad and comprehensive themes, to which it is not necessary to add legislative content to the objective, although important but very limited, and which has an impact on the content and timetable of the teaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u7	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u8	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 29 Number of votes cast 29 Absolute majority 15 For adoption 10 Against 19
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u9	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal for a law to extend the quality of pupils of the nation to the children of rescuers at sea who have died in the course of their rescue mission and to ensure the financing needs of the National Society for Rescue at Sea (No. 2147, 2446). On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u10	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call for the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u11	I have before me two amendments, Nos 5 and 6, which can be presented together. Mrs Valérie Rabault, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u12	Amendment No 5 is drafting, Mr President. Point 6 is an amendment of consequence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u13	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u14	Favourable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u15	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 9 and 10, on the additional article after Article 1. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u16	This is a very important amendment since, unfortunately, as you know, on 7 June 2019, three volunteers from the Société nationale de rescuing en mer – SNSM – of the Sables-d'Olonne station died at sea during a rescue operation. This tragedy has of course profoundly upset the SNSM, a recognized association of public utility which, together with its 8000 volunteers, occupies a prominent place in the French scheme of rescue at sea. SNSM alone contributes half of the marine rescue operations coordinated by the operational regional surveillance and rescue centres, i.e. nearly 4000 operations and more than 7,000 rescue personnel. This amendment aims to give concrete expression to the commitment made by the President of the Republic on 13 June to the Sables d'Olonne to reinforce the exceptional model of this association, based on the solidarity of seafarers, recognizing the commitment of volunteers and accompanying their families. On the basis of the economy of the sea in Montpellier on 3 December, the President of the Republic paid tribute to the SNSM volunteers with all the actors of the maritime world. On that occasion, he announced that the five children of volunteers who died on June 7 could be recognized as pupils of the nation. Thus, this amendment aims to open up the possibility of assigning this status retroactively to these five children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u17	The rapporteur, Mrs Valérie Rabault, has the floor to support Amendment No 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u18	It's the same. I thank the Government and the President of the Republic for allowing the extension of this bill so that the children of the three rescuers who died last June in the Sables d'Olonne can benefit from the quality of pupils of the nation – if of course the bill is passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u19	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u20	We will of course vote for this government amendment, which is legitimate. The allocation of ward status to the children of the three deceased volunteers in Les Sables-d'Olonne is even the least of all. I regret, however, that the amendment which I tabled, aimed at extending this allocation to the children of the civil security rescuers who died on the night of 1 to 2 December last, was considered inadmissible. In her argument, the Secretary of State thought it appropriate to clarify that the SNSM model had been strengthened. However, I would like to point out that there is no response to the granting of sustainable funds to subsidise the original SNSM model. As you know, Mrs Rabault's bill has been distorted with regard to the sustainable financing component of the SNSM. We will vote in favour of these advances, but as a Member of Parliament for an electoral district with two SNSM stations, Dieppe and Le Tréport, I had to stress this lack which, in the long run, will weaken the SNSM model.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u21	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u22	This is an amendment of consistency aimed at removing the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u23	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u24	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 33 Number of votes cast 33 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 33 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u25	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Boris Vallaud on the creation of a climate premium and the fight against energy insecurity (No 2352, 2444).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u26	Mr Boris Vallaud, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u27	On June 18, 2019, almost unanimously, we made the choice to include the ecological and climate emergency in our law. While studies conducted by the IPCC – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – show that, even if drastic efforts are made, it will be very difficult to meet the targets of a temperature rise of 1.5°C by 2030, the challenge of a major acceleration of the ecological transition is more important than ever. No one will disapprove of it. All of our country's energy policy must therefore be based on this objective. It is with this in mind that we have collectively strengthened multi-annual energy programming to clarify the objectives we set ourselves by the middle of the century in terms of reducing greenhouse gases, diversifying and greening energy production patterns, or decarbonizing our industries, transport and the construction sector. In this regard, housing, which accounts for a quarter of the national energy consumption, appears to us to be the priority sector for amplifying the energy transition dynamics of our country. In July 2017, the Prime Minister, in his general policy speech, and Nicolas Hulot, as part of the climate plan, planned to eliminate the energy passory in ten years. This commitment corresponds to the completion of 700000 renovations per year. According to the study carried out in 2017 by the collective "Renovation! Renovation of the only energy coffers, which account for 30% of housing, would reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 6.13 million tonnes of CO equivalent each year, i.e. 12.5 per cent of housing sector emissions, and sulphur dioxide emissions by almost 10100 tonnes, i.e. a 48 per cent reduction in the sector's emissions. That is to say, the energy renovation of the housing stock is a major issue, while the rate of energy effort of households, i.e. the share of the energy bill in their budget, has been steadily increasing for the last 20 years. This rate is on average 5.6% today. In 2017, the French spent an average of 1683 euros on heating their homes, an average of 2230 euros for households heating in oil. While the most modest households tend to occupy the least thermally efficient dwellings, there are many who impose consumption restrictions, either poorly or slowly, below the comfort thresholds, or sluggish on certain other vital expenses. It is on this basis, which I believe is shared, that the Socialist and related groups decided to present, on this day reserved for them, a bill aimed both at initiating a paradigm shift in energy renewal and at combating energy insecurity. In the preparation of this text, we have not sought to rethink the park's renovation path or to change its ambition according to the most recent scientific publications. We started, strictly, from what we had voted in the energy and climate law and from what is provided for in the multiannual energy programming, i.e. the carbon neutrality of the housing stock by 2050. The proposal for a law that we are presenting is therefore aimed at massaging the thermal renovation of housing to eliminate thermal coffers – in other words, category F and G housing – in ten years, to remove the most modest of our fellow citizens from energy insecurity and to achieve the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050, in accordance with what we have collectively decided. What we are proposing is to increase the ambition, pace and logic of public action through a plan of EUR 300 billion over 30 years, which is implemented through a single, universal and ambitious scheme. At the current pace, that of the finance bill for 2020, the goal of carbon neutrality will not be achieved at best until 2080: this is an established fact. While the twenty-fifth Conference of the Parties, COP25, is currently taking place in Madrid, the climate calendar, I believe we can all agree, cannot be postponed for thirty years. We therefore propose to create a climate premium that, open to all owners, occupants or lenders, would pre-finance complete and efficient energy works, enabling housing to reach the highest standards of energy performance, thanks to a high funding ceiling. This premium would consist of both a subsidized and a refundable premium at the time of sale or succession. This is a "zero remaining charge" bonus at the time of work. If we want to describe this mechanism, we will start by saying that it is simple, in that it unifies the many others that exist today. In addition to making things less complex and more readable, the beneficiary would be accompanied from end to end in his approach by the ANAH – National Habitat Agency – whose resources are greatly enhanced. The bill is both an incentive and a binding one. The incentive is that the expected premium will be melted down over time in order to accelerate the necessary investment. The scheme is also targeted at dwellings with the largest energy losses, namely buildings classified as F and G. It is then binding because those who have not carried out the work will be forced in their ability to rent or resell their property, which remains an energy passory. The device is also environmentally efficient: it allows, I said, a complete and efficient renovation, of a high quality, which will allow to reach the low consumption level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u29	The climate premium, as I said, is universal, and it is its big difference with the energy transition tax credit – ISCED. It is intended for all owners, landlords or occupants, as long as their housing is occupied as a principal residence. It is intended for all households, regardless of their income level and geographical area, with a major social dimension, since the level of these incomes will determine that of the subsidable share, divided into three tranches of 20%, 30% and 40%, with a 10% increase in Area C, i.e. in a relaxed area, in order to take into account the effects of the cost of the work on the selling value. We have thus lifted two of the main obstacles to thermal renewal: the lack of support for households in their renovation projects and the rest, often too high. To this end, the scheme provides for enhanced support to households through the ANAH and its authorised agents, such as mixed-economy companies or HLM offices, which already have expertise in degraded housing. This proximity support will reposition the local authorities and will allow real assistance in the control of the works, for the benefit of the most modest households and for all those who remain a bit idle in the face of the issue of energy coffers. The scheme also provides for coverage of up to 100 per cent of the amount of work at the time of completion, without any cash advance for our modest citizens, who cannot afford it. This is the focus and priority given to the 7.5 million energy colanders, in which 3.8 million households live, most often modest. In economic terms, it must also be said, the text offers the building sector long-term visibility, stability and solvency...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u30	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u31	... since the projects will be directly funded by ANAH. These are necessary conditions for the involvement of the profession, as she herself pointed out during our hearings: it will be able to mobilize, she said to us, since the State, for its part, will assume the training of proximity in a number of territories. This bill is financed by the dipping of already existing tax credits and expenditures, with no eviction effect, and by the delayed repayment at the time of the transfer. It would have a considerable leverage effect, through the Caisse des dépôts et consignation to borrow at market prices, at low rates, rather than at unfavourable bank rates. However, you know as well as I do the constraints related to the admissibility of proposals of parliamentary origin: if the text were to be adopted for the benefit of the French, it should obviously be followed by a supplementary budget text, with a view to mobilising ERDF funds – European Regional Development Fund – or from the future investment programme dedicated to thermal renewal. During the debate we had in committee, the Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I felt an embarrassment. We have tried to be the armed arm of ambitions that we have defined together and that national representation now faces it, which are opposable to it. These appointments, we cannot delay them. A decade has been lost, it has been said to the United Nations. We all take our share. The consequence, however, is that today the nations must make an effort twice as much as they were asked for in 2010. If we were still to postpone this effort, it would become impossible. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] That is the meaning of our bill. To those of our opposition colleagues...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u32	[[Smile]] From opposition to opposition, you mean!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u33	[["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] ...who, in a few moments, will engage in the work of contradiction and who were kind enough to tell me that my text was very good but that they had been asked to remove it, I mean that I will not hold them to it in their personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u34	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u35	The subject that is being put on the table today, the energy renovation of housing, is essential. We agree that this renovation is a priority lever for achieving the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050 and ensuring the ecological transition of our economy. We share the findings. Buildings account for almost 45% of energy consumption and 25% of greenhouse gas emissions in our country. Accelerating the energy renewal of housing also means pursuing a policy with multiple benefits: fostering an economic sector providing non-relocable jobs; combat energy insecurity and allow the most modest households to reduce their heating costs; improve the comfort of the accommodation. Together with Julien Denormandie, we have just completed a tour of France's energy renovation during which we went to meet local authorities, advisors FACE – Facilitate, accompany and inform for energy renewal – energy info spaces, professionals, households and citizens – including in permanences – in order to understand what is blocking and improving the system. These meetings have only strengthened, of course, our conviction as to the extent of the task to be accomplished. I want to reiterate this clearly: the Government has made energy renovation of housing one of its priorities...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u36	Without putting the necessary resources into it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u37	...by committing to improve all the devices, to reach 500,000 renovated units per year, including 150,000 thermal colanders.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u38	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u39	This will not be done alone, we know; That is why we are mobilizing important resources. I will start by talking about information and support, which are essential to me. We need to provide free, neutral information and personalized advice on energy renewal, in a simple and accessible way, across the country. That is why we have decided to allocate EUR 200 million from the scheme for energy saving certificates, with a view to contracting with local authorities: the regions, which also provide the head of the network, but also the EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – as close as possible to the ground. This deployment will allow all French people to access first-level information that is neutral, free of charge and of quality, and to be accompanied in their energy renovation projects. The first agreements will be signed with communities by the end of the year, for some of them, and early next year for others. They will be transpassionate and reach out to all communities wishing to sign them. We must also mobilise financial tools: in this respect, if we agree on the principles, we do not necessarily agree on the modalities. The Government has been deploying a range of financial tools to support housing renovations for years and will improve them in 2020. The scheme for energy saving certificates, for example, is intended not only to accompany households through a neutral and free advice, but also to finance aid: the "help" scheme, in particular, has enabled more than 560,000 insulation operations or heating changes to be carried out since its launch on 1 January 2019. These "pumps" will be maintained and stabilized. This summer, we also simplified the zero-rate eco-loan, now accessible without resource conditions, to finance work to improve the energy performance of housing. On the other hand, of course, we maintain the VAT rate at 5.5% for energy renovation works, which is an important lever for controlling the cost of this work. In 2020, the Government will significantly improve household support through a mechanism that you voted for under the Finance Bill. Personal aid, first of all, will be simplified for modest and very modest households, before being simplified in 2021 for all households. If the modest and very modest households want to commit themselves to a global renovation, the sole objective of your bill, they will continue to benefit from a fully integrated scheme, led by the ANAH which also assumes a advisory mission, the Habiter serenity scheme, whose resources we have strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u40	Sufficiently?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u41	The Renovation Premium, applicable from 1 January 2020, will finance simple gestures, which it is very important to continue to help, in general 50% for modest and very modest households. This premium, which will be paid within a few months of application, will prevent households from having to make advance payments. It will be fairer, simpler and more efficient. For households in deciles 5 to 10, ISCED remains open for a number of actions. These households will be gradually integrated into the new premium scheme in 2021. The bill discussed this morning therefore comes up against the background of the ongoing reform. Above all, it poses major problems, which I will now detail. The first is that it removes any help with simple gestures. You must be aware that, if you vote for this bill, there will be no more aid for the change of boiler, including for the oil boilers of the most modest households, and that the aid will only be intended for the overall renovation: you remove what is now the mass of the renovation and contribute to the improvement of the energy performance of the park. As far as the overall renovation is concerned, the bill is said to be less than the current system in terms of aid rates. For modest and very modest households, the ANAH Serenity schemes make it possible to subsidize the overall renovation with aid rates of up to 50%, or even 60%, while your bill capped this rate at 30%: modest and very modest households would therefore lose up to 35% of aid for the overall renovation. In addition, in this bill, only thermal colanders of classes F and G are eligible for the scheme by 31 December 2026. For example, an energy-impaired household living in an E-labeled dwelling with heating bills of over 1500 euros will no longer have any help at all until 2027. Moreover, this new device, which you present as more efficient, is finally not well positioned, as it sets a goal of renovation in low-consumption building – BBC. It will then be necessary to switch directly from label F or G to label A, B or C, so that those households which, although undertaking work that can divide their energy consumption by two, would only obtain a label D, would no longer be eligible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u43	If therefore it has laudable objectives, this bill does not work, because it removes all individual gestures, lowers the aid rates and, for residents of category F or G housing, only finances works if they reach an inaccessible level, with a very high unit amount, fixed at 550 euros per square metre. I can still make other, more technical criticisms. Thus, there is no link between this new scheme and energy saving certificates, while My Prime Renovation has articulated its scale with these certificates to cap aid rates at 75 per cent for modest households and 90 per cent for very modest households. As for the financing of the remainder, it is based, in your proposal, on existing mechanisms such as the loan advance transfer or third-party financing companies, which are now in their infancy and do not yet show an efficiency that would allow massification. Finally, it is not possible to transform ANAH into an organization capable of raising funds in financial markets. Finally, I would like to refer to the coercive arrangements provided for in Article 3 of the draft law, which is very close to the one voted by the National Assembly under the Energy and Climate Act. Indeed, this law, which came into force just a month ago, on 8 November, already provides for the eradication of the most energy-efficient housing, called thermal coves, by introducing an obligation to undertake work by 2028 and, as of 1 January 2021, the prohibition on the owner of one of these coves to increase the rent without having renovated it. I do not think it appropriate to go back to such a recent arrangement, which was voted by national representatives a month ago. We are already working on its implementation: the energy performance diagnosis will be strengthened and reliability measures will be implemented so that it can be made effective as early as 2021. On this basis, the coercive measures provided for in the Law on Climate Energy can gradually enter into force. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, if we share the desire to renovate the housing stock as quickly as possible to achieve our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, to improve comfort and to combat energy insecurity, your bill, which is supposedly less technically and socially, does not work. That is why the Government is against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u44	In the general debate, Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u45	Earlier, Boris Vallaud referred to our discussion on 18 June, which allowed for the adoption of the principle of climate emergency. This reminded me of another 18 June, a few decades earlier, during the Second World War, and of a documentary that struck me, dedicated to Churchill and London.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u46	Winston Vallaud and Boris Churchill!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u47	I have a special thought today for our British friends, who are making a very important choice on the other side of the English Channel for the future of our continent, and perhaps also for the future of the world. We wish them, on this day of voting, the best discernment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u48	The bar is high!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u49	Churchill had therefore decided to send the grids of London's public buildings to the cast iron to fuel a decisive war effort. In the famous speech in which he promised his fellow citizens blood and tears, he explained that in the event of a fire – and this was the European fire that Nazism was – it was necessary to go so far as to sacrifice all the elements of heritage accumulated for centuries in the city, because there was an emergency, and only one.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u50	Soon he'll tell us we're going to Munich!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u51	When we are told of absolute urgency and mobilization, we often pay for words. We cannot say that the house is burning and that we are on the eve of a collapse if we do not mobilize or if we hesitate about the means to implement. I could also mention the effort made by the Roosevelt New Deal after the 1929 crisis, as well as the Green New Deal, which today is the reference for all those who think the world up to man and want to be at the rendezvous of their generation. It seems to me that the effort made today, realistically and seriously, by the Socialist Group and embodied by the rapporteur Boris Vallaud is in this direction. In this connection, I would like to greet fraternally our colleague and friend Jean-Louis Bricout, who follows our discussions and who, with great conviction, has invested heavily in this matter. I therefore welcome them, as well as all the Members of the Socialist and Related Group, who have chosen to put into what is a kind of Marshall plan for energy renewal a lot of expertise and ambition, and who, far from sticking to incantations, have taken care to adopt a certain realism. [[Smile]] This plan adds two elements that are particularly important to us in this troubled period of social movement. First of all, it aims to increase the "power to live" of our fellow citizens, to take up Laurent Berger's beautiful expression, of which we may have never felt so close as today. The power to live expresses the spirit of the declaration of organizations symbolically led by Nicolas Hulot and Laurent Berger, these organisations, which are increasingly numerous, making proposals for social and ecological transition important for our country. This concept of power to live applies to all people who live in energy coffers and whose meagre incomes are consumed by the cost of housing, which is a structural problem in France that we have not been able to solve in recent decades, and by the cost of energy, which will blaze while, according to the IPCC's predictions, it will be necessary both to protect themselves from extreme episodes of heat and to face harsher winters. In addition to the power to live, the effort also aims to follow honestly and seriously the trajectory set by COP21, the 21st Conference of the Parties to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and confirmed by COP25. Our colleague Christophe Bouillon, who is coming back from Madrid, will speak to us about this earlier on the examination of the bill on the recognition of the crime of ecocide. Achieving the power to live and being consistent with the trajectory of COP21 is, in short, finding a compass for public action: there is no other one but to aim at both the human dignity and the survival of our common home. We need to have a compass for our public policies and the objective of a decarbonized habitat park in France by 2050 is, in this respect, perfectly consistent. I will not go back to the tools that we have and I will let Boris Vallaud and my other colleagues provide technical answers to the arguments that you have just put forward, Madam Secretary of State, to justify your reservations. For my part, being very invested in these fields in the field, I am convinced that zero remains at the expense and support in the form of integrated project management assistance are solutions that match the challenges. Nor will I go back to the three tiers of 20%, 30% and 40%, with a priority for category F and G housing, which ensure a justice policy. The financing objective is achieved through the mobilisation of all resources, both European and Bank of the Territories resources. The only reservation I have heard on the ground about this bill is nevertheless important and I must take it into account, out of intellectual honesty: it concerns the ability of French construction companies to cope with demand. Are we able to invest and achieve 10 billion euros of energy renovation per year in the next 30 years, to achieve this plan and achieve our goal? Are French construction companies capable of achieving this objective? I will reply to that that, far beyond this sector alone – in agrochemistry as in diesel, in a thousand trades – we will have to mutate. This change can be tragic or, on the contrary, a real chance. As socialists and social democrats, we must take this issue. The ecological transition cannot leave territories, populations and trades at the edge of the road. Since tens, hundreds of thousands of trades will have to evolve tomorrow, the investment in the know-how of the building, the strengthening of research and development, the training of men to face the challenge of energy renewal as expressed in the bill of law of Boris Vallaud and Jean-Louis Bricout is a formidable opportunity to mobilize, over thirty years and with great readability, a formidable effort of research and human training, in order to accomplish this purpose and, on the basis of our SMEs and ETI of the building, to realize this effort without equivalent and whose effects are expected. Madam Secretary of State, our defence is not ideological: it is embodied in the territory – a territory that you know, since you have done us the honour of coming to the Land of Lorraine, in Toulois, to sign an energy transition contract, under which we are engaged together. You will have noted that our experience of the programme of the territories with positive energy for green growth, led by Ségolène Royal, had made it possible to mobilise, between certificates of energy savings and the state subsidies that existed then, €3 million of grants for 6 million euros of work, which have saved several million kilowatts, that is, in the state of the assessments that we are carrying out, between €300,000 and €400,000 of savings of public energy expenditure in the communities that had begun this work. According to the Meurthe-et-Moselle building federation, which has been our partner throughout this operation, this approach has created twenty-five net jobs. This is the result of a proactive action on a micro-territory. Jean-Louis Bricout's and Boris Vallaud's proposal for a law is merely resuming this trend and making it possible to apply it on an industrial scale. I also note that, together with the Bank of the Territories, our territory currently lends itself to the innovation and experimentation of intracting, a formula which makes it possible to repay expenses only on the basis of the energy savings achieved. The alternative solution proposed in this bill, which is to guarantee the costs of renovation on the transmission of heritage for the next generation, does not seem to me to be absolutely critical. We will, in fact, leave to the generation that follows us an invivable planet or the possibility, by restricting its heritage, to benefit together from a living climate. Finally, this bill is renewed with a planning capacity to define and focus on priorities. Madam Secretary of State, since you are expressing a reservation that we are going to distract some tens of millions of euros from other aid, in particular for current energy saving actions, I would like to point out that there are room for manoeuvre in the draft finance law for 2020, which we will complete in the next few days, and even more so in the one for 2021. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] The Socialists' recurring suggestion is to go back to the privileges that you have granted, with the introduction of the flat tax and the abolition of the ISF, to the few percent of the most privileged French. There are room for manoeuvre that we have not even mobilised in the funding plan for this bill, but that would allow us to continue to carry out the actions that you refer to and to carry out the plan proposed today by the Socialists, which is up to the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u52	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u53	"To save money, seven out of ten French people choose cold heating," headlined L'Union on November 19. This taboo title actually reveals a terrible reality: energy insecurity. Among the most affected by this choice are households with between 1500 and 2500 euros per month and pensioners. What a surprise! It is absolutely not a choice, but a terrible economic necessity, which the Government does not want to see. Precarious people, many of whom have jobs, have this terrible choice of buying food, paying fuel to go to work or to be cold. And since you can't do without eating and you have to move around to work, you're cold. How many homes are children whining to do their homework because heating is too expensive? It's really not a choice! Energy insecurity is an evil that cannot be seen, that lives in shame. Of course, the most affected are those who live in the least isolated, the most old, the most unhealthy dwellings. So it's the poorest people who pay the most to heat up. When you can't pay the bill or, in any case, the electricity or gas has already been cut, and it's so cold, you use means of fortune to get some heat. Fires are fired from the braseros, which are the source of multiple accidents. In my constituency, in Aubervilliers and Pantin, several fires broke out. On Monday, January 28, a 23-year-old, three-month-old woman was found dead in her bed in Bondy, Seine-Saint-Denis. According to Le Parisien, the victim died of carbon monoxide poisoning caused by makeshift heating. At the foot of his bed, the rescue found a pot full of coal. The Seine-Saint-Denis, of which I am elected, is the department most affected by the scourge of carbon monoxide poisoning due to defective or makeshift heating: 25% of the poisonings recorded. Innumerable homes glitter hoping not to die of cold, or asphyxiated, or in a fire. It's not a choice, it's poverty. In the face of this, what is the Government doing? Nothing or not much. A year and a half ago, he published a plan for the energy renovation of buildings for the quinquennium, which is still at a standstill. Yet this plan would be vital for the precarious, indispensable to combat climate change, economically useful for the jobs that such renovation would involve. The Government does not even empower itself. Its objectives are unclear. In one year, the steering committee met only once. Public funding for energy renovation of housing decreased by a quarter in 2019, with a reduction of 800 million euros, an amount that has never been offset. The law of 2015 provided for the establishment of a public service of the energy performance of the habitat but this network, which is indispensable, is threatened because not all regions want to maintain it. Even with longer deadlines and shorter ambitions, there is a gulf between ambition and reality. Economic alternatives indicate that if the law targets 500,000 annual renovations to bring housing to energy label B level, the reality would be around 40,000. As for the resources envisaged, they can finance inconsistent arrangements. What is the use of replacing a boiler at high cost, if the insulation work is not done? In fact, what is recorded as a renovation is often only partial and inefficient. The "death" arrangements do not allow for an ambitious and coherent policy and leave the citizens in need. Nor has the Government taken binding measures. The opposable energy performance diagnosis, announced for 2019, is always postponed. The last trick used by the Government to make it appear to be acting: it envisages a downward revision of the conversion coefficient to primary energy of electricity, a statistical pass-through tower which could result in the removal of at least one million dwellings from the category of energy pass-throughs. In order to combat energy sieves, the Government decrees that they are not! To combat energy insecurity, we must empower ourselves, starting with ecological planning and funding for the renovation of buildings. Only the existence of a high-level and state-controlled energy sector will achieve this objective, guaranteeing energy at affordable prices. This is what France had with historical operators such as EDF and GDF, whose quality was admired and aroused envy all over the world and which you privatize. It's December. Twenty years ago, a terrible storm was sweeping the country, causing immense damage. We now know that it opened a cycle of exceptional events that reflect the severity of the climate change. So we must now plan for the ecological conversion of buildings. This bill is therefore welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u54	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u55	First of all, let me thank the Socialist and Related Group for putting into debate, on the occasion of its reserved agenda, the issues related to the renovation of housing units, which are both considerable and urgent. We all agree on the importance of the sector in energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. We also know that energy renovation has an obvious social dimension: those who occupy these energy pools are the modest households. Nor do we have a clear economic dimension: these yards are sources of non-relocable jobs and they contribute to reducing our country's energy bill while improving the purchasing power of our citizens. However, the climate emergency and socio-economic imperatives do not seem sufficient to motivate an acceleration that would achieve the target of 500,000 renovated housing units. In 2018, the Energy Transition Network – the former CLER, the Renewable Energy Liaison Committee – evoked a total of 290,000 renovations, of which only 50000 achieved a level B energy performance. In 2019, the Government is planning 370,000 renovations. I think these figures are optimistic. Let us beware that the Energy Renewal Observatory, promised in 2020, will allow us to see more clearly. Nevertheless, it would be unfair to say that nothing had been done. Let us mention the Energy and Climate Act, although we have stressed its lack of ambition. Let us also mention the provisions of the finance bill: the reform of the ISCED has the merit of wanting to give more support to modest households but we regret the exclusion of deciles 9 and 10 as well as landlords, and, above all, the fact that the envelope is not progressing. A word about the support service for energy renewal, led by the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – and expected to be operational in 2020. It is indeed imperative to better support individuals in view of the entanglement of aid, but we note that the EUR 200 million it has come from energy saving certificates and from the communities. We recognize that the number of renovations is increasing. ANAH announced yesterday that it would achieve its target of 120,000 renovations. Is that enough? Clearly, no. Much more ambitious, this text proposes nothing less than to flatten our housing renovation system. In this and by the means it seeks to mobilize, it is very stimulating. That is why I would like to acknowledge the important work of its authors. Any text remains perfect and it is the subject of several amendments by the rapporteur, but this new premium would offer several advantages: its visibility and accessibility are able to remove obstacles; care taken to ensure that the remainder is adapted to the means of households; the choice of setting up an advance to speed up projects. I wonder, however, whether even if the non-reimbursable share of the premium can rise to 30% of the work, which represents a significant improvement, will it suffice to convince the most precarious households? With a gradual entry into force based on energy performance, which also determines the rate of take-over, you tackle, as a matter of priority, the energy passoires classified as F and G. This text also gives ANAH a central role in engineering and consulting. So you are proposing a significant increase in resources, in particular by shifting existing appropriations and using borrowing. During the work in committee, we discussed the provisions that raise questions: your mechanism to combat inflationary risk on renovation work would deserve real expertise, as would the mechanism to regulate rents for renovated housing. These reservations, it should be noted that this text has the immense merit of proposing innovative, clear and ambitious responses. He is able to take a decisive step. Without presage of the continuation of the debates, this text deserves better than the fate to which it seems unfortunately intended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u56	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u57	This is obviously the most absolute right of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u58	It's nice of you to recognize him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u59	That being said, we all remember the Prime Minister's remarks in his policy speech last June. He promised us that the next 12 months would be those of the ecological accelerator.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u60	And Act II!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u61	To this end, he announced a complete overhaul of the aid for energy renovation, which he blames for being of appalling complexity and benefiting the richest households. You confirmed that, Madam Secretary of State, in your opening remarks. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] This bill therefore responds to the Prime Minister's injunctions and appears to be in a position to achieve the medium- and long-term objective: the elimination of heat sinks in ten years and the carbon neutrality of the housing stock by 2050. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u62	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u63	First of all, I would like to thank Boris Vallaud and salute his ambition. It proposes to tackle the scourge of thermal colanders, waste energy and revealing social inequalities. As other speakers have already said, people in energy poverty suffer a double penalty: they do not have the means to finance renovations while their heating costs are exorbitant. The decline in carbon energy consumption, which is the largest consumer in the construction sector, is also clearly the best way to combat global warming. Therefore, the reallocation of public resources towards energy renewal should be at the heart of our public energy policies. For ideological reasons, successive majorities have instead chosen to finance massively the production of electric renewable energy: more than 100 billion euros have been spent or committed, without contributing anything to the fight against global warming. It must be kept in mind, as the dominant ecological discourse tries to make the opposite seem. Let us wake up, ladies and gentlemen, and let us look at the proper use of public, necessarily limited, means to combat global warming. In terms of habitat transformation to combat global warming, the little we do today is not effective. According to ADEME, between 2014 and 2016, €36.3 billion was spent on renovations of individual houses whose energy performance diagnosis will ultimately remain unchanged. There is therefore a need for better coordination of all actors and better monitoring of the performance. We no longer have the means to afford this waste of public money. The IDU, Agir and independent group therefore legitimately questions the real pilot of the energy renovation of housing within the administration and the Government. We expect, inter alia, by early July at the latest, the Government's first annual report to Parliament, as provided for in article 25 of the Energy and Climate Act, concerning the achievement of the renovation objectives and the estimate of the number of so-called thermal passory dwellings that have been renovated this year. There is a serious lack of data on this subject. This text therefore proposes an ambitious scheme for the energy renovation of private housing. While we share the objective, some steps have already been taken with the adoption of the Energy and Climate Act. I will not mention them; it was done very well by the Secretary of State. We are particularly concerned about the proposed funding mechanism. We have serious doubts about its implementation and fear that it will not ensure the proposed plan. It seems to us to be incompatible with the multiannual energy programming, in particular with the financial subsidies currently granted to renewables rather than to the construction sector. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is the multi-annual energy programming that needs to be reviewed as a matter of priority. That is why we will not be able to support this text, although it raises this important issue of energy renewal of housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u64	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u65	For several months now, I have been thinking that the challenge we face, in the face of the climate emergency, is to reconcile the end of the world with the end of the month. The social anger that has been expressed for more than a year in France attests to this. At the invitation of the Socialist and Related Group, we are addressing the subject today through a text on the fight against energy insecurity, which offers a serious and concrete way of implementing a just and equitable energy transition. For too long, in the majority, you have been trying to make us believe that the environment and the economy are incompatible and that the ecological transition will only be successful if the poorest agree to pay for the richest. A sketch by Jamel Debbouze comes back to me in memory and resonates with my own childhood memories. Popular families invented the circular economy before the hour! When I was a kid, I put on my brothers' clothes. We were already concerned about the preservation of basic necessities, since in the family we were all taking the same bath. Of course, we were doing this for savings more than for environmental reasons, but in doing so we were doing an exemplary job. In popular families, bicycles were repaired when they were broken, which also refers us to the draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, which is currently being debated by the House and on which we have tabled amendments that you, for the most part, refuse to take into account. There is a possible area of convergence between the end of the month and the end of the world, but this convergence requires resources. Housing, which absorbs 43% of our final energy consumption, is exemplary. We face a clear social reality: housing is the first item of household expenditure. What is known as the household energy effort rate, i.e. the share of the housing energy bill in their budgets, has been steadily increasing for the past 20 years and represents an average of 5.6%. Of the 36.3 million dwellings, more than 7.4 million are considered to be energy coffers. The lack of energy housing, this precariousness of everyday life, has a cost, and first and foremost an economic cost for households, some of which sacrifice more than half of their remainder to living at this expense. The most precarious are cold and pay dearly for this suffering. So when winter comes and the oil boiler works badly, the thermometer is lowered to hold with the planned reserve until February, or even until March. We pollute, we know it; We wouldn't want to, but we don't have a choice: we just don't want to be cold anymore. 20% of dwellings considered to be thermal colanders and as many homes, faces, exposed every day to potential health risks. For, it must be recalled, the precariousness in housing kills on a daily basis: chronic diseases, unsafeness, accidents, depression, social isolation, consumption of antidepressants. Home is not only a good to be valued on the market, a real estate surplus value; It is also the place that allows everyone to meet again. But what to do when this home becomes itself a danger, a burden? Public energy renewal policy exists, but it does not go far enough. Devices such as ISCED promote the effects of windfalls. For example, low-rate VAT does not reach the poorest households and does not allow the most energy-efficient homes to be renovated. Of course, the ANAH spent almost 530 billion euros last year on the fight against energy insecurity, but for very few results in the face of the challenge that we have to face... The text before us today proposes to create a climate premium in the form of a repayable advance of up to 100% of the amount of work. This premium would aim, according to a specific timetable, to eliminate low-energy housing by promoting the financing of renovations. We agree with this proposal and welcome the proposal to prohibit the leasing of F or G-class dwellings from 1 January 2027. In discussing the 2020 Finance Bill, we reiterated our criticism of ISCED reform, which we believe is a measure of fiscal economy disguised as a social measure. On this occasion, we made various proposals on a number of subjects, including making global renovations eligible for the new scheme. The climate premium, welcomed by building professionals and homeowners' associations, is a first step.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u67	However, the reform of the aid system for the private fleet must not obscure the remaining questions about the worrying development of energy prices, the dependence on hydrocarbons in heating systems and the insufficient level of investment in the renovation of public buildings. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In conclusion, we call for a broader debate to initiate a strategic plan for the energy and social transition. We will vote for this text, as it is a source of significant progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u68	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u69	The proposal for a law by our colleague Boris Vallaud on the creation of a climate premium sets out laudable energy renewal objectives. These goals, our majority and the Government have been defending them since 2017 and have made them a priority in their work. This is the ecological transition to reduce energy consumption in residential and tertiary buildings and greenhouse gas emissions, and to improve household purchasing power and home comfort, with particular attention to low-income households. These ambitions require a simple, fair and effective implementation, so that each Frenchman, depending on his situation, his income and his type of housing, can seize it. It is precisely on this implementation that we differ, Mr rapporteur. The climate premium you are proposing would replace all existing aid with one single aid. You choose a standardized approach to aid for energy renewal; But to standardise is to exclude households from the scheme, first of all because some will not be able to benefit from renovation aid now because of the renovation schedule you set, which depends on the classification of energy performance. What will modest households in E-rated housing do until 2027? Next, the system you are proposing is exclusively aimed at global renovation, when we believe that we also need to promote "renovation by gesture" in order to encourage as many owners as possible to renovate. The unique prism of global renovation risks excluding modest households, concerned about the scale of the work and its amount. In addition, with your device, a very modest household that wishes only to replace a boiler at the end of its life will not be able to receive the premium, whereas at present it receives aid. Finally, you are deadlocking on major issues. What about the link between the climate premium and the subsidies it does not abolish, energy saving certificates and local government aid? What about the risks of inflationary effects on construction costs? The majority and the Government have chosen another way to simplify aid: tailor-made aid! The transformation of the ISCED and part of the ANAH's aid into a unified premium, known as the Ma Prime Renovation', which has been endorsed in the coming days, will provide readability to existing aid and encourage renovation. This is direct assistance to households, especially the most modest ones. My Renovation Prime will, from 1 January 2020, finance the renovation of housing more simply, more efficiently and fairly. It will complement existing aid, which is becoming increasingly successful thanks to the simplification and communication work we are carrying out. Over the past three years, there has been an impressive increase in the number of housing units benefiting from the ANAH Habiter Better program: 50% more beneficiary households in 2018 than in 2016! The same applies to ISCED, which benefited 1.4 million households in 2018, an increase of 200,000 beneficiaries compared to 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u70	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u71	This is also the case for energy premiums financed through energy saving certificates: 20% more households used them between 2017 and 2018! Beyond the transformation of ISCED into a premium, to strengthen its attractiveness for the most modest, the eco-loan at zero rate, or eco-PTZ, has also been simplified in order to be more easily mobilizable. Finally, the obligation to undertake renovations in thermal colanders by 2028 is a considerable step forward, enshrined in the Energy and Climate Act in the summer of 2019, at the initiative of our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u72	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u73	This work to improve the system will be intensified with the establishment of the National Observatory for Energy Renewal for the Residential and Tertiary Built Park, which will allow for a real follow-up of public renovation policies. In this context, the timing was very wrong, Mr Vallaud, in order to make a clean table of our system of aid for energy renovation. Let's go back to the advantage of your climate premium in comparison to the measures we are implementing. You propose 40% of the amount of the work in the form of a grant, while on our side we go up to 65% with the unified premium. Besides, the climate premium is not really one! This is in fact an advance on work, which will lead our citizens to debt over several decades and perhaps even to transfer debts to their heirs. I would add that the scheme is not particularly inclusive. We were criticized this fall for excluding the ninth and tenth deciles of the ISCED, but you are proposing an eligibility system that is only open to two or three energy classes at a time! At the end of the day, according to the figures you are putting forward, your system is based on a minimum budget three times higher than today's, for three times fewer eligible people! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The La République en marche group has chosen not to table any deletion amendments on this bill, out of respect for the democratic debate. However, I will not surprise you by indicating that we are unfavourable to him as we have, in recent months, legislated and implemented real improvements to existing arrangements. It is necessary to allow these devices to deploy and produce their effects, but also to evaluate them, before any further modifications are made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u74	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u75	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u76	The proposal for a law submitted to us by the Socialist and Related Group is aimed at setting up an ambitious mechanism – I would stress this term – to finance the energy transition of housing. The issue of the control of thermal colanders was discussed during the first reading of the Energy and Climate Bill in the Assembly last June. At that time, the Government had adopted a framework for energy performance as the first milestones in an energy transition from housing, without, however, proposing a corresponding financing mechanism. In addition, the review of the finance bill for 2020 did not provide a clear vision of the energy transition planned for the French housing stock since, in particular, the 20% of the most affluent households are now excluded from the new energy renovation premium. The bill seeks to fill this gap through a 30-year plan with an envelope of EUR 150 billion, or 5 billion per year, financed largely by state-guaranteed ANAH borrowings and the mobilisation of existing credits. The climate premium is intended to finance energy transition work, the rate of take-over being determined by the energy performance gain. A large part of the premium would be reimbursed, either through an increase in transfer fees or on a monthly basis, on the basis of the expected energy savings. There is no lack of interest in the scheme. It seems to us both relevant and well calibrated from the point of view of funding. It places on the public authority the cash flow of an investment that is too heavy for many owners, but economically and ecologically profitable in the very long term. I note, in any case, that the climate premium attracts the interest of all stakeholders: the construction sector, owners' associations and charitable associations. The doping infusion of an entire part of the economy obviously raises questions. Such an investment is likely to have on-board effects that will require cascading regulatory measures. The draft law also provides for a framework of rents for property which has received the premium. We are also concerned about strong tensions in the construction market due to the possible inability of the sector to meet this artificially stimulated demand. Beyond the conceptual stakes of a new form of semi-incentive mid-management economic planning, the bill nevertheless addresses a major ecological challenge, reducing the energy consumption of housing, by removing the difficulties of financing this transition from the housing stock, which is now unsustainable for a large number of owners. [[Applause on several SOC and GDR benches]] We therefore regret the fact that the majority has swept this text away in committee without any other form of trial. Let us hope that his examination in the Chamber gives him a different fate. The Government and its majority must consider these proposals to their full value, beyond any political tactics. For many French people, energy insecurity is indeed a trap from which today's policy does not allow them – I say today – to escape.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u77	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u78	As energy bills weigh increasingly heavily in the household budget, the introduction of tools to reduce the cost of housing renovation appears to be a major social challenge. I would therefore like to thank the Socialist and Related Group for giving us the opportunity to speak again on this issue. Energy insecurity affects many of our citizens. More than 7 million homes are considered thermal colanders. In my region of the Hauts-de-France, they are 800,000 affected by this scourge. In addition, these households use an average of 19 per cent of their budget to heat up. This is why reducing energy insecurity and renovating the housing stock became priority areas for action during the current quinquennium. The MODEM and related group understands, of course, the will of the Socialist and related group to allow our fellow citizens to live in dignity. I welcome the work done during the hearings that you have conducted, Mr rapporteur. We do not question the sincere intent of the authors of the bill before us. Aware of the social and environmental challenge posed by the inability of all French people to have adequate energy services for their housing, we must address the issue in a sustainable and constructive manner and implement realistic solutions that are socially and environmentally sustainable. However, since the beginning of the legislature, the MODEM Group has strongly stressed the importance of better control of public expenditure. However, under the proposed scheme, the State would grant through the National Housing Agency a repayable advance covering the entire amount of the work. This represents an enormous effort: EUR 300 billion over 30 years. Investment through the dangling provided for in the proposed law is likely to weigh very heavily for a very long period of time. Moreover, the financial abundance of this initiative should not necessarily stem from the State budget alone. In line with corporate social responsibility and in connection with the emergence of climate regulation, market regulators and the private sector must play an active and contributing role in this regard. The electricity sector is very competitive and the downward trend in prices will put additional pressure on margins and profits. To move forward, incentives must be used to encourage market participants to support the process. More stakeholders need to be fairly involved in energy transition initiatives. That is why we have opted, in the framework of the draft law on energy and climate, for a three-stage action: a first phase of encouragement and information to the owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, including through an energy audit; a second phase of the obligation to carry out energy performance improvement work on F and G-class dwellings; Finally, a sanction phase, if necessary. This three-step mechanism is based on a progressive action plan that guarantees the support of our citizens towards a decarbonized and less energy-efficient society. Since these measures have been the subject of a long review a few months ago, we ask that we begin by assessing their implementation, and its effects, before any other work. What we have voted for is a step in the right direction: it is important that we are able to analyse its full scope and have all the necessary studies to do so, before resorting to new measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we obviously agree with you on the need to remove the obstacles to housing renovation for many modest owners and to support them in an environmental approach. That is precisely why we will wait for the results of the social and environmental framework defined a few months ago before seeking to define new mechanisms. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The MODEM and related groups will therefore not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u79	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u80	First of all, I want to pay tribute to Valérie Rabault and my colleagues in the Socialist Group for their initiative, which seems to me to be going in the right direction in the current times. Its implementation would enable a very large number of housing units to be brought back to standards, making them habitable under normal conditions, but also, perhaps, to reveal to our fellow citizens the link, which may seem a bit tenuous to them, between the strengthening of climate measures and the fact that their windows or doors close more or less well. There is only one aspect that I have not understood, but we will make it clear – I have spoken about it with my colleague Rabault at the moment. The text proposes the introduction of a climate premium as a full repayable advance. There's something wrong here: a bonus, we give it; A repayable advance, we advance it, then we get it back. But Mrs. Rabault told me that we were going to see this later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u81	[[Smile]] That's reassuring!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u82	In any case, one thing is certain: if 30 % of the amount of energy renovation is taken over, as is currently the case, almost no household can afford to carry out the latter, however necessary, particularly in rural areas and in towns with less than 20,000 inhabitants. On the other hand, if, through the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and thanks to the assistance of ANAH, the remaining 70 per cent is financed in the form of a repayable advance, many will be able to do this work, and everyone will be better off, the inhabitants as well as the climate. The fact of inciting the owners who rent real colanders to them, by hand, also seems to me to go in the right direction. There, Madam Secretary of State, is a tangible implementation of the climate plan that the Government has launched. But there may be a shortage of money, and that is the problem. I keep saying: we will not be able to deal with the serious problems facing our country, by reviving a great economic and social policy that restores confidence, if public funding is not reinjected, in the service of politics. I visited the solar oven in Font-Romeu, installed in the sixties: we are much more advanced than we say in terms of solar energy. If we were a little less afraid, for various reasons, of dropping oil, we could go very quickly on this path. If France had been able to build its nuclear programme in 20 years, it could do the same for solar energy, and the Government would not have to worry about pensions or everything that needed to be done in the country, which, today, imposed itself on the most modest of us and which, therefore, was not engaged. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] In short, I wholeheartedly support the approach of our colleagues, who have the merit of getting us to discuss these essential elements, and I think more generally that we must finally get to work to make a real energy transition, with new means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u83	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u84	I regret to note, in view of the objections made to us, that many of you have not read my report or read the amendments. If there are many of them, it is because we have heard a lot, listened to a lot and took up the suggestions of those who have kindly submitted them to us. In total, whether they are associations to combat insecurity, those committed to the energy transition, associations of owners, tenants or federations of the building, all of us have shown great interest and have strongly encouraged us in our approach. Your administrations themselves, Madam Secretary of State, have confirmed to us – I will not say through whose mouth, because it was under the seal of secrecy – the seriousness of our bill, seeing only one small disadvantage: to go back to the proposals of the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u85	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u86	In essence, this is what you said to us: "You don't mind anything, I'll take care of everything! Except that, in reality, what you're doing isn't up to what you've planned...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u87	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u88	... and that I will not even criticize as such – I repeat here several of your own assumptions. I simply ask that we have a little more ambition, that we try to give ourselves the means to be at the meeting of the abolition of energy colanders in ten years and of carbon neutrality in 2050. We need an agenda: climate change. He won't allow us to postpone anything. We are told about tensions for the building sector, but these thermal renovations, in one way or another, will have to be done! We will not escape. It is true that our proposals involve biases, including the removal of simple gestures. All the actors told us: the problem is that we admit simple gestures rather than focusing our resources and efforts on complete renovation aimed at the best possible energy performance – i.e. a low-consumption building when we can do it, but, because we are not idiots, a lesser performance when we can't; We have written it in our report. This is a bias, because it costs more and the means are not multifoldable to infinity. Our device, we object, will target fewer people than the current one. But it increases the number of renovations per year from 200000 to 700000!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u89	That's not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u90	Thus, if the base is smaller, the proportion of those who use it will be multiplied. You can't say the other way around. Secondly, we are targeting, but over the entire period, 100% of the owners are eligible for the mechanism, both donors and occupants, as long as the housing is used as their principal residence. No Fake News: It's Objective Reality! You then tell us that our proposal is less so-called socially. So why didn't you amend it to raise the rates? For our part, we have taken the precaution of "reflection," that is, not creating additional taxes or taxes. Furthermore, the constraints of admissibility have not allowed us to base our proposals on resources to do more – I am thinking, for example, of the ERDF grants that we make every year to the European Union, or the EUR 9 billion that we have planned for future investments and that we could mobilise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u92	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u93	We have also avoided the use of energy saving certificates, according to the recommendation of several administrations that, since their scope is not limited to renovation, it is better not to touch them in order not to unbalance other public policies. You argue, Ms. Beaudouin-Hubiere, that the current rate of assistance can be as high as 65%. We're doing no less well! On the one hand, we propose, by way of amendment, the introduction of a new subsidy threshold corresponding to 40% of the advance; On the other hand, aware of the fact that some works, although we have capped the amount to two thirds of the value of the property, may not, in the relaxed area, raise the price of the property sufficiently, putting the owner in difficulty, we have introduced a 10% increase in these areas. Furthermore, as you yourself said, Madam Secretary of State, the non-subsidable part of the advance would be subject to a delayed refund. In this regard, I would like to point out that basing itself on the inflation of transfer rights over the last 30 years would amount to a further 66% of the increase in facial value due to inflation, 33% over 20 years and almost 13% over 10 years. And you immediately associate the subsidable share with the inflationary effect. I note that for the most disadvantaged people living in a relaxed area, our proposal is more so-called social over 30 years than yours. Second, it is true that owners of non-classified F or G buildings will have to wait. That is why we expect the energy check to become a bonus for them. Yes, I have made the choice if not of planning, in any case of a form of green colbertism, because I believe that we cannot trust the market alone for the problems to be solved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u94	You could be a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u95	Perhaps this will happen, my dear colleague, there may be alternations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u96	Mr. Rapporteur...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u97	I come back to my point, Mr. President. As far as ANAH is concerned, with an increase in its appropriations of 1.5 billion each year, it would not be the same as today, but I pay tribute to the quality of its commitment and its staff. The ANAH would not act alone, but through the competent bodies, possibly joint-economy companies – I am also thinking of Picardie Pass Renovation, whose work I welcome – which will make it possible to make assistance to master works in the form, the associations concerned insist on this point, a personalized accompaniment, of proximity. It is not a question of standardization, but of individualisation of the accompaniment, with as final objective the best possible qualities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u99	However, we do not expect ANAH to become a financial agency. We know the rules of prudential ratios – Basel 3, etc. – and the difficulties that would ensue. So we didn't choose to make it a third-party financier. That is why it is proposed to create a new section within the Caisse des dépôts to undertake this task,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u101	...consolidating its performance and thus allowing it to borrow at more favourable market rates than bank rates. This would save money. In addition, it would be a healthy debt, since it will be repaid. And we know that the money we don't invest in energy savings today will cost us three times as much investment in a few years. As for inflationary risk, you have seen, even if there is a difference in culture between us on this point, that we take it into account in framing the scheme. It is thus planned to limit the amount of work according to the equipment by order – because this is not in the legislative domain – in order to avoid a boon effect. You have also seen that we regulate the conditions of relocation and resale by providing that the mayor can take an energy insecurity order, on the basis of the peril order or the order for insanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u103	Our system is complete, the financing mechanism fully functional. So when I hear you say, Madam Secretary of State, that "our goals are commendable," I have the impression that this is the assessment of a teacher written on the school bulletin of one of his students: "Well. Make efforts. Thank you, but we are not presenting this bill for ourselves, but in the name of the climate emergency, which is slapping us wildly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u104	You don't have a monopoly on the fight against energy insecurity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u105	I remember saying a few years ago, "Look at the world we're going to leave for our children. But we already live in this world, it is for ourselves that there is an urgent need to act now. I regret the lack of consideration you have shown for our work. You think your government has already done everything, so much the better... But if that were the case, everyone would welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u106	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u107	I understand what the result of the races was. That's unfortunate. The device we are proposing is very imperfect, but I must tell you that there are imperfect gardens that I think are more exciting and promising than French-style gardens that do not produce much and seem narrow. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] Consideration of the amendments that we are about to begin should, however, allow us to go into the details of the proposals that we are making in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u108	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u109	I hope that we will discuss the substance of this text in the light of the question it raises and the solutions it offers. That is why the Government has not tabled any deletion amendments. I share the impatience expressed by all the speakers: it is indeed a matter of making the energy renovation of buildings work faster and better. I also share their indignation at the situation of people today in energy poverty because of housing that is poorly isolated and difficult to live in. I will start by going back to the metaphor of the French garden: it is because it makes you think of a French garden, rapporteur, that your bill does not work. You are proposing a single premium with only – in addition to a premium rate on certain areas – two rates of aid in the form of a grant for works: a rate of 30% or 40%, which would apply to all households from the first to the eighth deciles, whereas it has been a year since our department has been working on the re-engineering of the system to achieve a system that works. In this respect, Mr rapporteur, I would like to remind you of what we are doing. First of all, there is the energy plan of the building. Launched a year ago, it is well piloted: proof of this is that the steering committee met no later than 18 November. We are working on all aspects of the issue of energy insecurity, starting with the methodology to find out how to estimate the number of renovations under way. That's an important point. We have set up an observatory on energy renewal that will enable us to respond to the demand made during the debates on the energy-climate law, a report that will be well submitted next July. We work with artisans to improve their ability to meet demand by solidifying the RGE label – recognized as a guarantor of the environment – in order to have more RGE-labelled artisans, thus ensuring an increase in skills and able to meet demand. We're working on accompaniment. On this point it is necessary to move to a higher speed, because the Energy Transition Law for Green Growth of 2015 had entrusted a form of wireline chief to the regions, but without any implementation following and with only very limited resources for ADEME – 20 million euros per year. Accompaniment is now provided region by region; 200 million are allocated over three years so that there really exists, that Juliette, a 91-year-old lady living in Digne, in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, whom I met and who desperately was looking for someone who could tell her how to move to a less energy-efficient boiler, has for this purpose a reception point outside Marseille.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u110	It's been in existence for 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u111	This will be the case after the agreement that the ministry will sign with the Provence-Alpes-Côte-d'Azur region. But know that this lady, for lack of information, decided on her own to replace her oil boiler with another oil boiler! To improve the accompaniment and the ability to meet the needs of the French, we therefore put 200 million on the table and sign a convention with each of the regions. And they will be, as well as the EPCIs, on the rendezvous. We are also working on the territorial dimension. Dominique Potier is well aware that our ministry has signed an ecological transition contract with Terres de Lorraine, and eighty territories are already labeled "green transition contract". This allows for an integrated approach at the territorial level. Yes, rapporteur, we are working on aids and bonuses; And no, there's not a single help supposed to work for everyone. The Prime Renovation that we are putting in place is differentiated according to gestures and income. It is a measure of justice to help more costly, heavier and more difficult actions. It is a measure of justice to help more the overall renovation. It is a measure of justice to help households who need it the most. This unified premium will be easy to access – you can request it directly on the internet – and paid immediately after the completion of the work, its amount varying according to the personal situation and the incomes of the households and the energy gestures. We differ between you and me on simple gestures, but I think all professionals will tell you that we need to help our fellow citizens change boilers and isolate their homes, knowing that not everyone is ready to make a global renovation at once, because it's expensive and it's heavy. In this regard, a repayable advance, which requires payment of monthly payments for a very long period of time, cannot be a solution for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u113	I am in favour of both types of renovation: overall renovation and phased renovation. The latter often takes place when the accompaniment is there: the household starts with a single gesture, the boiler for example, before switching to insulation in a perspective of global renovation. We must not oppose both. Now you arrive with a unique and universal mechanism,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u114	Like pensions, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u115	... with one aid, each time a single rate, a single criterion, a single BBC objective – low-consumption building. While there is not a single possible path to the energy renovation of buildings and we need to finance several of them. I am not saying that everything has already been done and everything is working perfectly, but that we are fundamentally changing the energy renovation of buildings. My Renovation Prime is set up on January 1st: we must give this new measure a chance to find its audience. Similarly, personalized accompaniment will be developed from next year, in conjunction with local authorities and in strengthening what already exists; This mechanism will have to be given the opportunity to prove itself. We are changing things and ready to be evaluated on results. I know we will be by reporting on the number of renovations carried out. The mechanism you propose is falsely simple, falsely legible and inappropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u116	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u117	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u118	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u119	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the contribution of my colleagues Jean-Louis Bricout and Dominique Potier, with whom I had the opportunity to work on renovation issues. Mr Potier himself raised the major problem of this text: the unimaginable air call that he might create and all the drifts that might result from it. I'll explain myself by doing a little math. If there are 7.4 million thermal colanders and all owners are invited to apply between 2021 and 2026 for the very advantageous funding proposed by the text, this makes about 1.5 million cases to be processed each year for five years, three times more than the current targets – already difficult to achieve, since the current rate is 400,000 renovations per year. Who will come to do the work, even if they are 100% funded? Who will train the missing professionals and at what speed? How will the quality of the work performed be guaranteed? Let's say we can quadruple the number of professionals overnight. A complete renovation costing 50000 euros to 60000 euros on average, the total would amount to about 400 billion over five years. Of course, it would be a loan, but a big loan anyway... But let's admit it. Today, no one is able to guarantee the return on investment of energy renovation works. I'm not saying anyone. And for three reasons: the variable quality of the work, the unpredictable increase in the price of energy and the uses of the occupants after work – what is called the rebound effect and which can cancel up to 50% of the expected energy efficiency of the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u120	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u121	I note that 50 per cent out of 400 billion, that means 200 billion possible budgetary drift. Let us accept that we can limit budget drift to 5% – this is the case under an energy performance contract. That would still amount to $20 billion over five years. Let us accept that a 20 billion drift is legitimate in the light of the climate emergency. How to produce the materials needed for renovations? Where would they be imported from? What would be their quality? Today, no one is able to supply such a quantity of materials without rising prices as a result of rising demand. Therefore, unless I have not understood the mechanism presented,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u122	That must be it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...I don't think it's viable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u124	It's a reasoning by the absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u125	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u126	Mr. Boris Vallaud is very much loved in the Landes, like me, especially his voters, and he is excellent as we have just seen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u127	[[Smile]] Southwest solidarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u128	There are two terms that my economic abilities do not allow me to grasp how they can escape the contradiction: "prime" – which means a gift –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u129	It's very socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u130	... and "advance" – which means reimbursement. Could anyone enlighten me on what can be interpreted in a number of ways, knowing that I will, of course, vote in favour of this excellent bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u131	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u132	This is an amendment of legal precision. I wanted to react to the latest interventions, which seem dramatic to me by what they say about resignation – and even, to a certain extent, resignation – which prevails in the ranks of the majority. You explain that the objective set out in the bill is not achievable. A timetable is needed for us, in any case: we must remove the energy sieves in ten years and achieve carbon neutrality by 2025. You can make all the explanations of the world, but a commitment of 1.83 billion euros will always be less than a mobilisation of 10 billion euros. As far as the deadlines are concerned, if we give visibility, stability and the opportunity to train the actors concerned, they will be kept. We are at war against climate change. So we propose a war economy. You can invoke all the reasons why the proposed measures cannot work, but the reality is that if these are the only answers you are able to provide, we will all crash!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u133	You have not answered my question, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u134	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u135	I express an unfavorable opinion, not on the amendment as such – which is of legal precision – but because the Government is opposed to the mechanism proposed in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u136	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u137	Nor will I comment on the legal clarification amendment, but I would like to add to my remarks. You are proposing, Mr Vallaud, to substitute a climate premium for all existing mechanisms in order to remove the obstacles to financing energy renewal. We would all like to applaud this idea, if it had a chance to succeed, but we have already tried to apply this solution, through the system to a euro, which has removed the obstacles to financing and allowed the French to start work. The problem is that the machine has become so excited that the device – which initially provided for the renewal of 300,000 boilers – must now be restrained, otherwise the system will explode. However, you do not propose to carry out 300,000 renovations, but 1.5 million complete renovations – five times more! Such an increase would, at the rate you propose, be unmanageable. I say this with regret, because I am – as you know – very committed to the subject of energy renewal, and I sincerely hope that we will make progress. It is true that for the time being, we are not in line with our objectives. On the other hand, we have greatly improved the situation in the last two years. In 2017, it seemed that we could only reach our goal in 2100. You believe that this horizon has been reduced to 2080.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u138	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u139	[[Mrs Véronique Hammerer applauds]] In two years' time, perhaps we will actually be able to reach our target in 2050. That is all I wish for, and I am delighted that we continue to work together in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u140	On Amendment No 31, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u141	Many of us are working on energy renewal issues within the Accelerons collective created at the initiative of Matthieu Orphelin. I would remind you, Mr Vallaud, that you were still in business recently, that you have never carried out this policy successfully and that, with regard to the implementation of the energy check – I can say it for working there with Mrs Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere here – there were many holes in the racket,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u142	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u143	... first of all with regard to non-recourse – for when taking relevant protective measures, the first requirement is to ensure that the French actually use them – but also with regard to the administrative management of the funds. It is easy to sign cheques and open the valves of public debt,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u144	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u145	[[Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere applauds]] ...but if no one then manages supplies and effects on households, the measure turns out to be totally useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u146	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u147	I will not mention the amendment as such, as the head of the Socialist and related group wanted to bounce back on the general discussion that has just taken place. Your attitude of bringing us back to the previous period, Mrs Mauborgne, does not seem very constructive to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u148	It's the reality: it's factual!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u149	I am not personally obsessed with the 2017 election. How long will we have to be accountable for the past period? The time for assessment, assessment and perspective will come, but could we not rather project ourselves on the 2022 horizon, and highlight your attitude on this whole day and on the bills that are being considered?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u150	We have just adopted the previous one unanimously!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u151	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] The real policy is not to constantly go back...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u152	[[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, only Mr Potier has the floor! Anyway, I'm listening to you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u153	The president is suspended from your words, Mr. Potier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u154	We can participate in the massacre game of the Sarkozy years, the Holland years, and so on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u155	We can!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u156	All governments do...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u157	I prefer to think of the state in which we will be in 2022. I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, President Lescure, what democratic state will we find then? I say this sincerely: constantly bringing each other back to the previous period will not allow us to be on the rendezvous. Mrs Meynier-Millefert, I would remind you that you yourself have put forward proposals that are at least as ambitious and – in your words – as adventurous as those we are presenting. Today you have to do the dirty job, I concede it, but you were defending quite revolutionary arrangements – in any case more than the very realistic ones proposed by Boris Vallaud. I wish, at this moment, to set out two principles of reality. First, as your plan puts us on a path that would achieve carbon neutrality in 2080, we propose to achieve this by 2050. Then, you oppose us with expertise on the cost of materials and the human talents that will be lacking. On the contrary, we affirm that the expertise comes from the business world and in particular from the Fédération française du bâtiment, which supports the objective we set and takes note of the need to achieve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u158	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u159	As long as public authorities define an objective, we believe in the ability of companies to find technological and human solutions to achieve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u160	It's like the removal of glyphosate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u161	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u162	Our young colleague presented to the House the theorem of renunciation – even though it seems that she was commissioned to do so and she is not convinced of it herself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u163	Of course I do, I'm convinced!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u164	It is possible – I have experienced this in the framework of twelve OPAH-RUs, the planned operations to improve the housing-urban renewal – to mobilise the actors of the building in the territories and to give concrete support, through urban and social mastery, to the tenants and the occupants to carry out thermal renovations. It was possible at the time when ANAH accompanied the projects, subsidized the insulating foams and had the means to make lace to rehabilitate the unhealthy housing and to renovate the city's hearts in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u165	This is still the case today!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u166	All this is a matter of political will, committed resources and planning – which is not a big word, except for the Liberals you are! Planning is the only solution to the energy transition: the theory of small gestures is the theory of generalized renunciation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u167	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u168	It aims to entrust to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the CDC, a role of co-financer of the scheme, alongside the ANAH, by creating within it a third section, in addition to the general section – the balance sheet of the public institution – and the savings fund. This third section – which could be called "climate premium funds" – would also benefit from an autonomous balance sheet. As with the savings fund, the CDC could lend and issue debt instruments to the savings fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u171	He's unfavorable. If the CDC is clearly more appropriate than the ANAH to manage the financial portion and the loans, such a mechanism would cost the CDC a significant amount, regardless of which entity bears the debt. In addition, we have chosen to grant a higher subsidy rate through the Renovation Premium, which can be added to the eco-loan at zero rate, the eco-TPZ.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u172	I put to the vote Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u173	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 11 Against 41
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u174	I wanted to vote in favour, Mr President, but I didn't have time to return to my seat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u175	[[Smile]] Thank you for that clarification, Mr. Member. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u176	It is intended to clarify that the premium will apply to owners – whether they are occupants or donors – in the private park and not in the social park, even though there is also much to do about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u178	It is unfavorable, for the reasons already mentioned: the amendment seeks to clarify a mechanism to which the Government is not in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u179	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u180	In order to avoid the effects of a boon, it tends to exclude from the premium institutional investors – mainly banks, insurance companies and real estate companies – who do not encounter the same financial obstacles to renovation as other owners. However, it should be remembered that these investors are extremely minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u182	It is unfavourable, for the same reasons as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u183	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u184	It aims to clarify that we support global and efficient renovations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u185	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u186	It is unfavorable, in particular because we do not agree with the rapporteur's proposal that simple gestures should be excluded from any subsidies and aid, which is what this amendment is about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u187	Amendment No 5 by Mr Boris Vallaud is a precise amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u188	Amendment No 6 by Mr Boris Vallaud is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u189	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u190	It states that only private housing owners are eligible for the premium, not those in the social stock. Low-cost housing organizations will nevertheless be able to act as an authorized agent of the ANAH and to assist households in their thermal renovation projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u191	On Amendment No 8, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u192	It aims to ensure that works eligible for the premium are defined by decree. The Government may make it possible for certain works and equipment to be eligible for premium payments on the basis of a price ceiling, so as to limit as much as possible the potential inflationary effects of the premium on the cost of renovations. The amendment also seeks to clarify the energy performance target to be achieved after the works: the climate premium will finance only the overall and efficient renovations to achieve the BBC standard. For buildings which, because of their technical, architectural or heritage constraints, cannot be renovated to meet this standard, the objective will be to achieve the best possible energy performance gains – which is one of the objections raised by the Secretary of State. This will also be the case for property for which the cost of work to meet this obligation is clearly disproportionate to the value of the property. Finally, the amendment makes it clear that the project for the ecological transition of habitat can be based on the energy audit provided for in the Energy and Climate Act. In particular, the audit presented proposals for work, including at least one proposal allowing the building to achieve a very high level of energy performance and one to reduce its level of primary energy consumption below 331 kilowatt hours per square metre per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u195	I see in this amendment the sign of the incompleteness of the draft. The original draft law provided that any type of work carried out in a category F or G building, without any guarantee or performance condition, would be eligible for the climate premium. The rapporteur proposed that this point should be corrected, but the opposite is true: if such a provision were adopted, the only works eligible for the premium – both grant and repayable in advance – would be those which could be converted from category F or G to the BBC standard. However, such a transition is almost impossible. Only a few renovation units – at most ten thousand a year – would be able to carry it out. Moving from category F to category D, for example, involves dividing energy consumption by two, which already requires a huge effort. This amendment is now more open, since it provides for the case of buildings for which it is not possible to reach the BBC standard – so that there is no longer, in reality, a real condition: one must reach the BBC, unless one does not reach the BBC.... In short, this system is not successful, it is falsely simple and falsely legible, while the Government's system is much more robust. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u196	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u197	This amendment raises a good question: how can we ensure that the financing of an energy-renovation scheme does not lead to higher rates for installed equipment? The question arises regardless of the device concerned. It is not normal that, when the state helps the French to pay for equipment, ultimately, the price of equipment increases. We need to work on this issue, but I am not sure that this amendment responds to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u198	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u199	Listening to our discussions, I think you had to think a lot about putting forward a motion to reject it beforehand. You have not dared to do so: perhaps it is a shame, because you would then have assumed a posture that consists not of discussing the text but of rejecting it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u200	Pile, I lose, face, you win!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u201	[[The rapporteur applauds]] You thus demonstrate that, setting the goal of carbon neutrality for our great-grandchildren, it suits you perfectly. We don't like it. That's why we decided to table an ambitious project, and that's what bothers you. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Our bill fundamentally reflects the system. You, in the face of the climate emergency, are making a difference. A minister, who has left you, is very lacking in you: he accused you of tinkering. Keep tinkering with the climate emergency! You embody the climate status quo! As for us, we proudly carry an ambition that you do not have.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u202	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u203	Mr Saulignac's speech will prevent me from being unpleasant: I thank him for that. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We have conducted a large number of hearings, and we have not given up improving the text during the parliamentary debate. I understood that this was not the spirit provision in which you were, since you have not tabled any amendments. What we must understand is that the main flaw of this text is not to be yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u204	Mr. Adrien Morenas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u205	The climate emergency does not date from this government or from this majority. When you were in business, you should have taken on your responsibilities, too. Don't come now to blame us, as we pass texts that meet the expectations of the French for climate emergencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u206	What about ISCED? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u207	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u208	I do not wish to prolong these debates, especially since we still have other texts to examine today in the context of the niche of the Socialist and related group, but I have a word to say anyway. To accuse us of not having tabled a motion to reject beforehand is still a little strong. You know as well as I do, the new Rules of Procedure of the House no longer allow us to do so on a text presented in the framework of a parliamentary niche of the opposition – essentially at the request of the oppositions themselves, who accused us of tabling such motions in order to avoid debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u210	Nor can you blame us for being opposed to your bill. Your opinion on how to speed up the energy transition is as legitimate as it is respectable; We consider that your text would create a new system that would interrupt the development of the one that our Assembly has adopted democratically and that we are implementing. We have the right not to agree with you, to reject all your articles and all your amendments, while, as you will recognize, you will argue on each of them. That is democracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is possible to go back to every amendment on the fact that we do not agree with you. Because no, we do not agree with you, we can answer you every time. It is our right, as it is your right to oppose us. But please let us vote in the way we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u211	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u212	Mr. Lescure, you have the right not to agree with anyone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u213	Thank you, Mr. Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u214	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] ...to have all the unions in the street against you, to find yourself in a brilliant political loneliness and to be convinced of being right on your own. I authorize you to remain in this certainty and self-satisfaction. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] When you voted, like Playmobils, to reject the texts of previous parliamentary niches, you took them for your rank. That is why you have established another strategy: to fall asleep in the House by pretending to debate, while remaining at the end of the account locked in sectarianism, for everything that does not come from you is not intelligent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u215	That's not true! Ask Mr. Pradie!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u216	What doesn't come from you doesn't deserve to be examined. What doesn't come from you isn't meant to be an operative. Thinking that we have a higher thought always carries a risk to public opinion, a risk that I want to warn you about.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u217	I put Amendment No. 8 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u218	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 55 Absolute majority 28 For adoption 11 Against 44
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u219	I would remind you that the forced vote is not constitutional!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u220	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u221	[[Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert applauds]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Not only has the report not been read by all, but I have not been listened to by all, since I myself referred to a lost decade after the United Nations: for the United Nations, the effort we must make today is twice as much as we should have made in 2010. Rather than looking for responsibilities, we are led to assume ours, you in the majority, we in the opposition. You will also agree that there are more socialists defrocated in your parliamentary group than there are socialists faithful to their values in ours!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u222	Nice formula!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u223	The arguments of the type "It's not me, it's Murphy" are beginning to seem a little short.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u224	Without a dick!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u225	Amendment No 9 is intended to take into account the so-called accompanying self-rehabilitation operations, which ANAH is helping today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u227	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u228	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u229	It is never very pleasant to be treated, in this assembly, by Playmobil. We have the right to be convinced of good policies, especially since the ANAH, at its last general meeting, stated that it had experienced an unprecedented year, marked by an exceptional success on all its programs: an increase of 12% in its interventions and 40% in comparison to the budget implemented in 2018, whether it be degraded condominiums, energy performance or the Habiter program. Habitat improvement, as we know, is at the heart of our fellow citizens' concerns: they are well aware of the ANAH's aid, which is, for the first time, important. In 2020, we will launch My Prime Renovation, a fair and simple aid that will adapt to households as well as to the work to be done. I agree with the Secretary of State: it is through the accumulation of simple gestures, small gestures, that we will succeed: first by renovating the windows, then isolating the roof, before changing the boiler.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u230	That's what they said thirty years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u231	Dominique Voynet, 1982!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u232	Households are modest: they are gradually renovating. Local authorities and departments make significant investments in the Better Living programmes. The Solidaires pour l'habitat federation works with associations to decline these housing assistance programmes at the local level. We must continue the actions we have undertaken. Our policy is the right one: let us continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u233	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u234	Let's not slip into too political considerations – I'm talking to every bench. Let us remain pragmatic in our discussions: we must deal with the issues in substance. No one here wants to accuse anyone of the situation we are in. That is not the subject of the debate. No one today, in terms of energy renewal, has the miracle solution to draw the path to achieve, in 2050, not a BBC level in terms of renovation, but carbon neutrality. Today, no one knows how to do it, but everyone, I hope, is working on it. We're looking for all the solutions to make it happen. We must note the intelligence of the financing mechanism, which is not new, and which exists in other countries or territories, but which, if it were applied massively today in France on the model you propose, would make us put all our eggs in the same basket. In six months, we would abandon it, because we should face a massive halt to energy renewal! It's like the isolation of the tops at 1 euro: after an acceleration at the start, there was a break, because we are not able to quickly train the necessary number of professionals. If everything goes well, we will gradually succeed, in the months and years that come, in creating conditions in France to support, at an ambitious pace, a mechanism such as that you propose, in order to achieve the objectives set out in 2050. We won't do it overnight. The magic wand of energy renovation doesn't exist, and I'm the first one who's sorry. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat: let us not accuse anyone of energy ambition. I'm in enough room on the subject myself!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u235	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u236	It is still normal to talk about politics in this House. All subjects are political, even the environmental subject, when we have to make choices. You argue that the system will explode because, as of next year, there would be 1.5 million renovations to be carried out. No! As with local authorities, it takes five years to file the complete file and three years to complete the work, leaving time to train the number of professionals needed and to have visibility. I do not wish to liquidate what has already been done, but to supplement it. I referred to the Prime Minister and Nicolas Hulot as the horizon for thermal renovation. I couldn't do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u237	All that was missing was Ségolène Royal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u238	[[Smile]] I almost... I held myself, probably in modesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u239	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u240	It aims to distinguish between two expenditure ceilings, one for collective housing and the other for individual houses. The cost of overall and efficient renovations is significantly different in both cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u242	Unfavorable. As regards the cost of the overall renovation, the experts of DOREMI – an operational mechanism for the energy renovation of individual houses –, who are working on the scenarios of the negaWatt association, estimate it in any case rather between 400 and 450 euros per square metre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u243	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u244	It replaces the ANAH mortgage with a legal mortgage security called "privilege", which does not open the mortgage tax and is therefore much cheaper for the recipient of the climate premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u245	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u246	The aim of this amendment is to remove the requirement of equivalence between monthly payments and the amount of energy savings achieved. It is indeed complex to translate energy savings in kilowatt hours into euros and link them to a repayment schedule. For simplicity and readability, the amendment proposes to layer the monthlyised refund on that of a classic eco-PTZ.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u247	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u248	In order to provide more flexibility for households, this amendment allows beneficiaries to repay the balance of the premium for the climate that remains due in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u249	On Article 1, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendments Nos 14 and 15 by Mr Boris Vallaud are precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u250	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u251	This amendment tends to make the payment of the climate premium conditional on the energy performance of housing at the end of the work as defined by the ecological transition project for housing. The quality of the work depends, in fact, on the energy savings which the owner or tenant of the dwelling will be able to benefit from. It also provides for accompanying the household, by the ANAH or an authorised representative, when the work is received.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u252	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u253	This amendment replaces the reference to the RGE label – recognised as a guarantor of the environment – which has no legislative existence, by a reference to a decree. It also allows certain associations, which are not currently eligible for the RGE label, to carry out the renovation work eligible for the premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u254	Amendment No 18 by Mr Boris Vallaud is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u255	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u256	This amendment allows ANAH to delegate control operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u257	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u258	The bill removes two of the main obstacles to energy renewal: the lack of support for households in their renovation projects and the rest, often too high. To this end, this amendment provides for strengthened support for households by the ANAH and its authorised agents: households are assisted in their project by a third of competent and close trust – for the assembly of the administrative file, the choice of works, companies and estimates – in a logic of assistance with the control of works already successfully experienced in several regions, including the Picardie of my friend Jean-Louis Bricout.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u260	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u261	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u262	I agree with you, Mr rapporteur: the lack of household support is a difficulty, particularly in order to avoid the rebound effect that I mentioned earlier. As for the rest, we really need to work to ensure that the most vulnerable people receive 100% funding from their energy renovation projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u263	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u264	This amendment clarifies the application of the climate premium scheme to condominiums, which are an additional complexity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u265	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u266	This amendment provides for two new obligations for the trustee: to submit to the vote of the general meeting the works and equipment on the common parts prescribed by the ecological transition project of one or more co-owners, and to inform, by registered letter with notice of receipt, all co-owners of the existence of the climate premium and the prohibition, from 2027, of the rental of energy coffers. If the trustee fails to meet these obligations, the trustee is liable to a monetary penalty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u267	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u268	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 51 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 15 Against 36
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u269	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u270	I would like to refer to three subjects, in the constructive spirit that must guide us all. First, Madam Secretary of State, can you specify the overall budgetary cost of small gestures? Secondly, I repeat, in the history of technology, it is always the law that has made it possible to speed up the invention of solutions. I am convinced that, as long as the law sets an ambitious plan, companies will find the solutions – materials, technologies, human resources – to meet the challenge, if there is regulation. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, just tell me how you intend to do better with five times less money. You're magicians!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u271	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u272	Article 3 provides an opportunity to continue the debate on thermal colanders initiated during the discussion of the climate energy law and to reconsider the question of their prohibition. It illustrates in a way the wink you were addressing me earlier: yes, there are ambitious measures that we had to give up. I was one of those who proposed the ban, to remind everyone of their commitments to eradicate thermal colanders in ten years – in 2025 for the law on the energy transition for green growth, in 2027 for the President of the Republic. But the ban on leasing is perceived on the ground as an overly punitive measure. This means that some tenants are unable to find affordable housing. For this reason, in the text the obligation to work has been substituted for the prohibition of leasing. As part of the climate energy law, we have set up a countdown to achieve this objective. It is planned in 2023 to decide on sanctions against those who did not want to set themselves in order of march, in addition to incentives for those who have not renovated the thermal colanders. In this case, the sanctions you propose seem a little harsh to me – we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u273	On Article 3, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u274	This amendment is intended to supplement Article 3, which prohibits the rental of energy coffers from 1 January 2027 and provides for coercive measures for landlords who do not comply with this obligation, in particular by placing on them, in addition to carrying out the work and the possible relocation of the tenants during the work, a penalty of EUR 100 per day of delay in the event of failure to carry out the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u276	Before coming to the amendment, I mean that the total amount spent on financing renovation aid for individuals amounts to EUR 3.5 billion. Half of this envelope corresponds to budget funding – My Prime Renovation or funding by ANAH as part of the overall renovation program Habiter Better. The other half consists of energy certificates that we move either towards simple aids – boiler change, insulation – or towards articulated aids – several gestures – or towards global renovation. The report on the achievement of the renovation objectives, which will be presented in July, will give you precise figures. If a boiler change is a simple gesture, combined with attic insulation, it is already more like a partial renovation... I can't tell you today what is the distribution between the unique gestures, the bouquet of gestures and the overall renovation. The report provided for in the Law on Climate Energy will shed light on a mechanism applicable from 1 January 2020. With regard to artisans and the RGE label, we all have the same objective: an increase in the competence of the sector, and the ability of construction professionals to respond to a demand that we increasingly want. We do not claim that it will never be possible to meet the needs: at one point, demand draws supply. That is why we are working in the territories to develop training. In addition, the allocation of €3.5 billion in renovation aid is making the market more competitive. The rapporteur is talking about a lost decade, but for me, it is this bill that loses a decade since until 2027 only F and G dwellings are eligible for aid. In other words, all the other owners manage on their own. Amendment No 20 proposes to go back to the dates that were agreed in the Energy Climate Act, which was adopted only a month ago. We have a compromise schedule: 1 January 2028 for the obligation to respect an energy consumption threshold and 1 January 2033 for certain condominiums; 1 January 2022 for the inclusion in real estate announcements of energy consumption exceeding the said threshold. I do not think it is appropriate to return to it one month after its adoption by the National Assembly and the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u277	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u278	That you are proud of the work you are doing, Madam Secretary of State, is perfectly normal. On some issues, we are at your side and support your action. But let us be serious: to triple the budgetary effort in favour of thermal renewal is obviously to do more and better. The same is true when we set 2050, rather than 2080, the goal of carbon neutrality – some of you recognize that at the current pace, you will not even achieve it. Let's at least be honest. We are not in the process of liquidation but of improvement, through better targeting and programming over the next thirty years. You sail on sight, recognize him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u279	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u280	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] I did not intend to speak, but I would like to support the rapporteur. This bill has been the subject of important work, consultation and openness to improve the current situation. However, the Government and the majority, as always, systematically oppose everything that is proposed. What a shame! The Republican Group will support this bill, as I said in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u281	On Amendment No 24, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I put Rule 3 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u282	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 46 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 14 Against 32
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u283	The rapporteur, Mr Boris Vallaud, has the floor to support Amendment No 24 on the additional article after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u284	This amendment allows the mayor to make a decree known as energy precarious, on the basis of the peril order, to order the execution of the renovation work in the energy coffers put up or re-leased, or whose lease is renewed, from 1 January 2027. Rehousing of tenants, where necessary, shall be the responsibility of the owner. The Energy Insecure Order sets a time limit beyond which the owner is liable for one periodic penalty payment per day of delay. Rent due is recorded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u285	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u286	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u287	Unfavorable opinion, since, in the Law on Climate Energy which was promulgated on 8 November, it is foreseen that by 1 January 2023 at the latest, a criterion for the minimum energy performance in final energy, fixed by decree in the Council of State, will be taken into account in the definition of the decency of a dwelling. As of January 1, 2023, the rental of an unsatisfied dwelling will no longer be permitted and existing mechanisms for combating unworthy housing will be activated without the need to create a new one in the law. Mr rapporteur, therefore, our concern is satisfied not from 2027 but from 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u288	I put Amendment No. 24 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u289	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 44 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 13 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u290	On Amendment No 21, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u291	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u292	Prohibiting the re-evaluation of rents after construction is not necessarily a good idea, as this may encourage owners to postpone the work. It is wiser to ban the increase of rents until work has been carried out – a mechanism that we have adopted within the framework of the climate energy law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u293	They reject the articles one by one rather than adopt a motion of rejection!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u294	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u295	With this article, we come to funding issues. I have done some calculations, to estimate the cost of the energy renovation of 7.5 million heat colanders in five years. After a quick search on the internet, I decided to take as the average cost of a renovation per square metre the amount of 300 euros, even if such a figure seems to me to be largely undervalued – as I say from experience. I multiplied this cost by the average size of a dwelling in France, that is 70 square meters: the renovation of 7.5 million heat colanders would cost 157 billion euros. Mr Vallaud, you have repeatedly questioned the fact that we have read your report. I promise you that this was the case, the members of the majority are serious. It must be noted that funding for this expenditure of 157 billion in five years is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u296	Funding is not planned in five years, but in ten!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u297	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] On the other hand, I have discovered in your report an amazing proposal: the introduction of a tax on the sale of thermal colanders. This is something to worry about because thermal colanders, most of the time, are the property – as you have already pointed out and we always remind you – of modest households. So, to finance your measures, you propose to introduce a tax that would penalise modest households as a matter of priority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u298	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You didn't read the report!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u299	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The article has other features, but I must admit that it left me speechless.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u300	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u301	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group. – Smile on the benches of the SOC group]] I do not disagree that some have read the report. They understand that, but that's another question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u302	That's enough of the insults!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u303	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u304	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This tax, as you understand it, is a coercive measure, aimed at those who would not have been diligent in carrying out otherwise heavily subsidized work. And if you are interested in the matter, why didn't you table an amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u305	You're not answering the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u306	Mr President, I should like to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is chairing the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u307	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we are used to the fact that the discussions are going well, Mr Vallaud, but you may not be used to his debates. I find your comment deeply inappropriate. I'll let you draw the consequences you want. I would also like to remind you that members of both the majority and the opposition are masters of their opinions, convictions and words – which you have already questioned on several occasions. I know that your dream is to "refrost" the defrocated socialists to which you referred earlier,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u308	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u309	...but still, stop saying that the colleagues of the majority with whom you are talking, and whose name you cannot say, are all in agreement with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u310	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u311	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] At the time of the vote, we will see what is happening. In any case, please, let us try to maintain the proper conduct of the debates in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u312	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u313	I want to say to the chairman of the committee that he is right: there is a good debate and a great deal of cordiality in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I do not want to depart from this in this House. Also, I apologize to those I could hurt, carried away by my fervour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u314	That's the Dutch humor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u315	There were no personal attacks. If I hurt...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u316	And now he's going to explain to us that we didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u317	...I'm very happy to apologize. On the other hand, it was not I who accused the Members of the majority of voting as Playmobils.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u318	It's me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u319	Be aware, moreover, that I love the pirate boat very much, and that I am happy to play it when I have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u320	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u321	Mrs. Beaudouin-Hubiere, you took five years as the basis for your calculations. However, taking into account the delay between the filing of the files and the completion of the work, it is rather about ten years. Our estimate of the financing of the works was not the subject of comments by the experts consulted, and the services of the French building administration did not contradict our estimates. I don't know what calculations you get to the figure of 157 billion spending in five years. For our part, we are programming 300 billion in 30 years, and the financing of the scheme is planned. [["Oh no..." on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims on the same benches]] Madam Secretary of State, you are telling us that of the €3.5 billion in funding for renovation aid for individuals, you are not in a position to detail the breakdown between the various actions. I fully understand this, but I also note, without wanting to make any low politics, that this corresponds roughly to the solidarity tax on wealth! [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Bastien Lachaud also applauds]] It's not an insult to your intelligence, for that matter, so you don't have to offend yourself. I simply call for your consistency. I do not know how you will explain to our grandchildren that, because of the abolition of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax, it has been impossible to finance both the small gestures and the integrated renovation plan proposed today by Boris Vallaud.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u322	On the other hand, it has been possible to reduce unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u323	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u324	The amendment aims to exclude renovation costs covered by the climate premium from the deductible property charges for the determination of net property income.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u326	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u327	On Amendment No 22, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I put Amendment No. 21 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u328	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 50 Number of votes cast 50 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 16 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u329	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u330	It is intended to delete paragraph 3 of article 5. The main purpose of this article is to demonstrate the possibility of financing the climate premium scheme. In order to guarantee the financial admissibility of the scheme, in paragraph 3 we proposed to abolish the application of the reduced VAT rate which is currently in force, i.e. 5.5%, to energy renovation works. This paragraph should, of course, be deleted. The appropriations needed to finance the climate premium can be easily mobilised in a finance law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u332	It is obviously unfavorable. Nevertheless, I am pleased that you have returned to the reduced rate of VAT on work, because it is useful. If we continue the debate, you would no doubt end up recognizing that it is not really appropriate to remove existing aid to the most modest households for simple gestures and for the change of boilers. However, if you went back to these deletions, the bonus you are proposing to introduce would no longer have the slightest funding...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u333	Restoring the ISF for the ecological transition makes sense...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u334	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u335	Sophisms are easily unmasked. As I said earlier: the funding we are proposing does not mobilise the EUR 9 billion of appropriations for thermal renewal included in the future investment programme or ERDF appropriations, not to mention the other appropriations that we could mobilise. No, really, your arguments don't.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u336	It can't be seen in the ballot box!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u337	I put Amendment No. 22 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u338	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 51 Number of votes cast 51 Absolute majority 26 For adoption 17 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u339	The rapporteur's drafting or precise amendments Nos 25, 26, 27 and 28 are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u340	As all the articles or amendments to the additional article have been rejected, the bill is rejected. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. I saw that it was done, at the end of a text...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u342	[[Laughs]] Yes, generally to thank Members for their adoption...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u343	In particular, I would like to thank those who, beyond the differences between political families, supported this bill: it shows that it still had some interest. I would like to tell the members of the majority and the Government that their comments will feed into our group's next bill. You may not support her any more, but in any case it will show that we are able to listen, when you are unable to. [[Applause]] Finally, I would like to thank an administrator, Mrs Mathilde Bouchardon, who has given us considerable assistance, and our collaborator, Olivier Taravella, for the quality of her work and her involvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u344	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Christophe Bouillon and others to recognise the crime of ecocide (No. 2353, 2447).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u345	Mr Christophe Bouillon, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u346	The text that I am defending before you today is not the property of a group, nor is it the work of a single person. It is part of a substantive work and an approach that comes from afar. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] It is first and foremost the result of a tremendous mobilization of lawyers, scientists, environmental activists who are working around the world to make ecocide recognition one of the major causes of the twenty-first century. It is then the product of the intellectual maturation of a concept that has been debated for forty years and which takes its roots in the Vietnam War. The massive destruction caused by the orange agent has led States to recognize as crimes against peace all acts seriously affecting the natural environment in times of war, a definition enshrined in the Rome Statute which governs the International Criminal Court. If this crime is recognized in times of war, why is it not recognized in times of peace? It is here that the recognition of the crime of ecocide is justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u347	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u348	The concept of ecocide was popularized by British lawyer Polly Higgins in her book Eradication Ecocide, written in response to the Deepwater Horizon oil platform disaster in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. We must also mention the relentless struggle of international law experts such as Valérie Cabanes, who opened up new perspectives with the notion of planetary limits. In 2015, the professor of law Laurent Neyret had handed over to Christiane Taubira, then keeper of the seals, the book he had directed, Des écocrimes à l'écocide: le droit criminal à l'aide de l'environnement, provoking the legal recognition of crimes against the environment. These lawyers, scientists, whistleblowers who campaign for the protection of the planet have been alerting us for years to his ill health. The reports recently published tell us this forcefully: the planet's health bulletin is very bad, and our inaction does not lead it on the path of healing. Many vulnerable ecosystems are deteriorating. Biodiversity is entering a sixth mass extinction. Climate projections continue to worsen, with forecasts of an increase of 7 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. According to the latest report of the United Nations expert group on biodiversity, 75 per cent of the Earth's environment has been "seriously altered" by human activities and 66 per cent of the marine environment is also affected. If we are deaf today to these calls from scientists, more and more citizens around the world hear them and urge us to act. It is up to us, as politicians, to hear these emergency screams and to live up to these crucial challenges of the next decade. [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] Recognition of the crime of ecocide has become everyone's business. I want proof that the Citizen's Climate Convention – 150 citizens drawn by lot, without a priori, who didn't even know each other before sitting together – made it one of its demands. I would also like to point out that young people are showing millions around the world to encourage us to act. So, what are we doing? There will always be false reasons for not doing anything. It is, moreover, always the same arguments that are put forward in this direction. We are told, for example, that this is not the time. Go and tell Vanuatu, which on December 2, requested that the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court be amended to recognize the crime of ecocide. Vanuatu is composed of eighty-two islands, many of which peak less than a metre above sea level and will be swallowed by the waves by the end of the century if the temperature increase exceeds 2 degrees. [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] Tell the international community that France wants to champion the world of the protection of the planet, while it gives lessons to others more easily than proof of its willingness to act in practice. France refuses to join the ten countries that have already taken the step. I come back from the COP25 in Madrid and I can tell you that an initiative on the part of the states is very much expected; This idea has been very present in the discussions and debates. We are told that our legal arsenal is self-sufficient, that it is even sufficiently robust. The proof that no is that nothing changes. Environmental crime has increased unrivalledly and now, according to a recent UN report, represents nearly EUR 200 billion. In addition, there is a massive and shameless pollution on the part of multinationals. The deliberate destruction of our common environment generates, we know, considerable profits. Why is the phenomenon gaining ground? Simply because the penalties are not dissuasive enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u349	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u350	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] Let us be clear, we are still too tender with those who destroy our environment in conscience, by lure of gain and by calculation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u351	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u352	A form of criminal impunity has developed. To deliberately pollute or destroy our environment costs less than not to do. Let us understand, what we are interested in is the out-of-standard, the exceptional, which massively destroys our ecosystems. Nothing condemns this, at least criminally. To those who are concerned about putting ecocide at the same level as the worst crimes against humanity, I would point out that this is not the case. It is enough to see this, to make a comparison with the penalties that we propose. In any case, I tell you forcefully, as long as the sanctions are not up to the level, the looting will continue and we will not ensure true environmental justice. We are told that France is preserved from all ecocides. It's a little quick to forget that she's also Amazonian,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u353	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u354	...that Guyana is the victim of a ruin of its environment, that the coral barriers off Réunion and New Caledonia are threatened, that our coasts have experienced oil spills whose effects have not completely disappeared and that, in the Mozambique Canal, Mayotte is not immune.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u355	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u356	In short, our country can be the privileged target of environmental criminals, because it is rich in biodiversity that, as we know, attracts all the lusts. We are even told that the word "ecocide" is inappropriate. It must then be reported to the President of the Republic, who uses it without restraint. Last July, he strongly condemned the fires that ravaged the Amazon, calling them ecocides against a lung on our planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u357	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u358	Well, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u359	We are told that the proposed definition is not precise enough, that it is vague and, at the same time, too restrictive. But we are not the French Academy! We are not here to write a definition that is already included in the dictionaries that refer to it. We're here to write the law. However, every word of the definition we propose is enshrined in our law. You yourself have recently introduced the concept of "global boundaries" by adopting a new definition of the circular economy here. The amendments that I will be defending today on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group are aimed precisely at recognizing these same planetary limits and introducing them into our law. The said planetary boundaries are also the subject of the last "report on the environment in France" published on its website by the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. It states that six of the nine planetary boundaries are already exceeded. It cannot be said that a definition is not sufficiently that and that it is excessively that without tabling any amendment to correct or improve it. You can even propose another one, Madam Keeper of the Seals, if my words don't suit you. It turns out that the concept has been on the table for years, that it has been fairly well documented, that it has been the subject of many contributions, that eminent lawyers have looked into the issue and that organizations are putting it forward. The truth, Madam Minister, is that the recognition of the crime of ecocide is frightening. It scares the lobbies who organize themselves to defend poorly placed financial interests. These same lobbies pose obstacles in Europe. These same lobbies prevented a change in the Rome Statute in 1995, more than twenty years ago. "Don't be shy! Don't have complex ecology! » These words were spoken some time ago by a member of the Government who spoke to the majority at a public meeting. I take them back: don't have shy ecology! Don't be afraid! Let France, a country of human rights, also be the country of the rights of the planet! The recognition of ecocide is the great cause of the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u360	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u361	[[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] The question is, in the end, quite simple: does France want to be, yes or no, at the meeting? If the answer is yes, please take a date by voting on the text we propose to you today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u362	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u363	Last spring, the Senate debated a bill recognizing the crime of ecocide, which had been tabled by Mr.Jérôme Durain. The Government, represented by Brune Poirson, Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, then observed the legal limits relating to the recognition of the crime of ecocide, while stressing the urgent need to adapt our legislative arsenal to environmental issues. I will defend this same position today, for the same reasons. In a forum published two days ago, political and intellectual leaders questioned: "A dozen countries have already recognized ecocide, as Vietnam pioneered it in 1990 in its criminal code by defining it as "a crime against humanity committed through the destruction of the environment, in times of peace as well as in times of war". Why not France? » Of course, I share a number of the observations that led you, Mr rapporteur, to table the bill that we are considering today. I agree with you when you say that the legislator must meet the expectations of society with regard to the suppression of environmental damage. I also share your concerns about what we need to do to regulate more effectively the behaviour that affects the environment, biodiversity and the health of our citizens. However, it is on how I can do this that I will take my distance, and these will lead me to give an opinion that is unfavourable to the bill. Indeed, I do not share the view that our criminal law would be flawed or that the sanctions imposed would be derisory; There is nothing to say that this must be the case. On the other hand, it is true that our judicial organization could be more effective. It is therefore another type of response that I would like to propose. What are the substantive issues raised by the bill you are defending? The new offence of ecocide mainly raises difficulties of a constitutional nature. First, the material element of the crime of ecocide does not appear to satisfy the constitutional requirement of precision of the criminal law, especially since it would be a criminal offence. The definition of the crime of ecocide is based on the model of the crime of genocide, as it refers to the execution of concerted and deliberate action, which is strained towards a specific purpose. Nevertheless, the crime of ecocide is defined only by its consequences on the environment. Its definition makes no reference to specific behaviour likely to harm the environment or the health of persons. The result of the infringement also suffers from imprecision: it is "extended, irreversible and irreparable damage [caused] to an ecosystem". These notions also appear too vague to satisfy the requirement of precision of the criminal law imposed by the Constitution: from what threshold can the extended character be recognized? How to assess irreparableness? What perimeter should be used to take account of an ecosystem? Secondly, some of the examples mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the bill are transnational in nature. Therefore, the adoption of an international body of law is necessary, prior to the creation of national incriminations. Otherwise, the text appears to be contrary to the principle of State sovereignty recognized in public international law. Currently, French criminal law is applicable in the case of an offence committed in the territory of the Republic and, abroad, to persons of French nationality who commit or are victims of an offence. On the other hand, French criminal courts have jurisdiction to prosecute persons of another nationality, for acts committed outside French territory, only on condition that an international convention so provides. Beyond the legitimacy for France to judge cases unrelated to our country, the effectiveness of such procedures does not appear to be guaranteed in any way. In particular, the establishment of evidence of damage to the environment requires investigations at the scene of the commission of facts. In connection with the foregoing questions, the proposed text also raises, without deciding them, questions of competence. I thus wonder how the criminalization of ecocide would be applicable in space. Which jurisdiction should be referred to? Finally, the proposed law raises substantive questions about the criminal law that would be mobilised. The crime of gross negligence that has contributed to the serious destruction of an ecosystem, which you propose to create, poses difficulties relating to its articulation with existing offences, while also raising the question of the extent of the damage. The proposed law also provides for an automatic penalty of exclusion from public procurement in case of conviction of a person for the crime of ecocide. As you know, the Constitutional Council considers automatic penalties to be contrary to the constitutional principle of individualization of sentences, which is derived from article 8 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights. Finally, the doubling of the penalties imposed, as provided for in articles 8 to 12, does not seem to be the preferred answer. By this aggravation, the bill, while I understand the ambition, aims to send a dissuasive message to the potential perpetrators of environmental damage. I believe, for my part, that we must also send them a message of responsibility. It is therefore necessary, in my view, to give priority to other answers. First of all, it seems to me that the answers of justice must be faster, in order to be more effective. In case of damage to the environment, it is essential to act quickly, without delay, as the prolongation of the situation is likely to worsen the damage. With regard to the judicial response, compensation for the damage caused, or its compensation, is also a fundamental issue. Moreover, while our legislation does not provide for generic criminalization that may apply to extremely serious environmental damage, the existing legislative arsenal already allows for the suppression of exceptional environmental damage. It includes a range of sanctions, both administrative and criminal, as well as specific criminalities, such as ecological terrorism and environmental attacks committed by organized gangs. The Environmental Code also contains numerous criminal sanctions for serious infringements, such as discharges of pollutants at sea, whose sentences were increased in 2008 to ten years' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 15 million; infringements of the natural heritage or conservation of species. Such sanctions, if handled with relevance and speed, can be extremely dissuasive. Moreover, since environmental damage has consequences for the population, certain ordinary criminal offences under the Criminal Code are also applicable, such as endangering the lives of others, intentional or involuntary injuries and homicides. And they can be very powerful. It is therefore less the substance of our criminal law that we must evolve than our ability to enforce it. The creation of the French Biodiversity Office and the strengthening of the powers of environmental inspectors are a first step in this direction. On 16 January 2019, together with the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I entrusted a mission to the General Inspectorate of Justice and the General Council on the Environment and Sustainable Development in order to strengthen the effectiveness of environmental law. The report has just been submitted to us and contains interesting points of reflection. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] They will give rise to concrete proposals from the Government, which will be submitted to you at the beginning of 2020. We will therefore be discussing this in the near future, and I believe that we will provide you with answers that are likely to meet your objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u364	In the general debate, Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u365	In a conference that Bruno Latour gave a few weeks ago, I was struck by his reference to Charles Péguy. It compared our beginning of the twenty-first century to the situation before the First World War, for we are experiencing a crisis of birth: the climate generation doubts that it can generate itself. Beyond the physical and technical issues related to the anthropocene, we face a crisis of civilization opened up by the risks of collapse that COP25 will set out, provided that it finds solutions that match the stakes. We are confronted with the evils that are all interdependent, as we have become: the evils of climate change, the sixth collapse of biodiversity, our ability to ensure food security when we need to feed 10 billion people, and all the related risks. We face these evils with words that seem weak, but that the executive, including at the top of the state, sometimes utters with great talent. However, it is on our actions that future generations will judge us. Our mandate, like those before it, will be judged on actions of three orders. First comes the definition of the budget for the protection of the planet. This was the subject of the proposal for a law creating a climate premium and combating energy insecurity defended by Boris Vallaud and Jean-Louis Bricout; In our view, the budgets allocated to this area do not match the challenges. Second, public policies will be evaluated according to their consistency. I am merely repeating the conclusions of the High Climate Council, which in its first recommendations, even before calling for budgetary increases or reorientation of public policies, calls for their consistency. But it is terribly lacking. Finally, remain to our credit – I consider us here collectively – the development of a new right, capable of meeting the challenges of our time. The bill that we are debating today, brilliantly defended by Christophe Bouillon, stems from this intention. If we adopt it, it will be in line with the great laws that have marked history. In reading the text on ecocide and its explanatory memorandum, I thought that we were up to the abolition of slavery in 1848, the lifting of impunity for responsibility for the occurrence of industrial accidents in 1898 and the abolition of the death penalty in 1981. These great texts, beyond their effectiveness, are among those that founded a civilization. This bill is up to the current challenges, and I thank our colleague for convincing us to put it on the agenda of this parliamentary niche. I hope, Madam Minister, to make new arguments; And for that, I would like to say that this bill obliges us in two respects. First, the fight against ecocide is a humanism. We do not subscribe to a pantheistic philosophy; It is not so much a question of protecting the planet or nature as of asserting that the protection of the environment, as defined in this text, derives from the protection of the human species. There is no possible confusion with genocide – it is useful to remove any ambiguity about it. This humanism is strengthened by principles derived from epidemiology, which now flourish internationally. It is a question of thinking about health in its uniqueness: it is not possible human health outside the health of the animal and plant world. Our relationship to nature makes us interdependent; protecting it is tantamount to giving man the capability – according to Amartya Sen's concept – to fulfil his destiny, that of achieving equal human dignity. This text echoes a proposal made in the summer of 2018, as we were discussing possible constitutional reform. Under the authority of fifty intellectuals and strong supporters from every bench, we had tabled amendments to include the common good in the Constitution. Madam Minister, you know the esteem and respect we have for you, but I must tell you that we were pleased that you rejected our amendments with a humiliating "unfavorable" with regard to the fifty signatures associated with our proposal. The first were those of Mireille Delmas-Marty and Antoine Lyon-Caen, gathered to defend this principle of a common good capable of balancing the all-power, in our Constitution, of the right to property and the freedom of enterprise, in order to face these threats. I will mention the land grabbing, which the UN and FAO – the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations – denounce as a cause of misery and violence in the world more powerful than wars. If we do not adopt new instruments, such as this constitutional reform or this bill on ecocide, we will be powerless to reduce the suffering caused by uninformed legal compartments, the blind spots of national and international law. I have referred to the report that man maintains in nature and stressed that our fight was above all a humanism, for the socialists as, I believe, for all the Republicans gathered here. I would like to add that this is also our relationship to the world and to the universal tradition inherited from the Enlightenment, in our civilization and in our law. This tradition affirms the universal character of our sovereignty through the universal dimension of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. I do not intend to guide a visit of the Assembly without commenting on the "Sphere of Human Rights": it represents a planet without borders – what we say for ourselves, we say for others as well. Mireille Delmas-Marty has wonderfully developed this idea by evoking the principle of solidarity sovereignty in the construction of contemporary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u366	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u367	Each people can, in conscience, deliberate for themselves, and also defend the most fragile at the end of the world: this universal brotherhood participates in the foundations of the French Revolution, it is the foundation of this assembly. It belongs to the French genius, whose responsibility we have to give a concrete testimony. With this bill, Christophe Bouillon and the Socialist and related group are part of this great universalist tradition. Solidarity sovereignty is not the negation of the right and ability of a people to elaborate their freedom: it is the opposite of localism or protectionism, it is the opposite of a globalization without faith or law, it is the ability to carry the concern of the most fragile at the end of the world – which amounts to defending our own interest. We did not do anything else by presenting the bill on the duty of vigilance; It had inspired very similar reservations with regard to formal law, on its inability to be effective. I am convinced, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that with your intelligence and that of the ministry, we can amend this text so as to remove obstacles and make it live – just as we have, after five years of fighting, succeeded in passing a law on the duty of vigilance, which now thrives in the world. It is the honour of France: six European countries are interested; a European directive is under negotiation by 2022; All associative forces, from churches to non-governmental organizations – NGOs – and trade unions – are mobilized to achieve this goal. Madrid should vote for a comparable text, Berlin is studying it. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and LT groups. – Jimmy Pahun also applauds]] At the time, however, we had the same reservations about our ability to legislate with extraterritorial ambition. We must overcome these obstacles and, together, bring to high the universal values of our country, its humanism: the penalization of ecocide is a defence of what humanity has most fragile. Human dignity and common house, same fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u368	Very beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u369	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u370	As COP25 ends tomorrow, as COP15 on biodiversity is scheduled to take place next year in China, it is important that France show its ambition for environmental conservation. Beyond the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it is important to protect nature in its great diversity. While we are talking about a possible sixth mass extinction, we must be aware that of the 8 million species we know, nearly one million would be threatened with extinction, according to the United Nations. If, to quote Jacques Chirac's famous phrase, we have to realize that "the house burns", we must also admit that this house loses vitality that makes it its strength. Thus, all the damage to our ecosystem must lead us to reflect on our production and consumption patterns, and more generally on our way of life. As citizens, we must consume more sustainably. As legislators, we must establish a legislative framework that will ensure better protection of the environment. That is why we welcome the initiative of our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group, who want to ensure better protection of ecosystems. We all agree that action must now be taken to prevent damage to the environment. And when this damage has been deliberately caused, we can enrich our repressive arsenal. In this sense, the doubling of penalties for infringements already recognised in the Environmental Code relating to water pollution or the protection of nature parks or nature reserves is a good measure. Similarly, defining a crime of recklessness characterized in terms of damage to the environment is an interesting avenue. Indeed, it is not a question of asserting that our positive right is sufficient – we become a little more aware every day of its weaknesses. However, the core of the text, the definition of the crime of ecocide, raises difficulties. The definition of the material element is not clear: what is irreversible and irreparable damage? With regard to a criminal law text, we must pay attention to the fulfilment of certain conditions relating to the precision and clarity of criminal law, which are constitutional requirements. How can judges determine that the facts have caused such harm? The total impossibility of a posteriori repair can never be demonstrated. In addition, we are likely to find ourselves in a space-time that does not correspond to the human scale. The definition of the moral element of the offence seems to make it extremely difficult to characterize: proving the intention to deliberately harm the environment will be almost impossible. Intention is the essential element of a criminal offence, since there is no crime without intent to commit it. While many behaviors are morally reprehensible, they are not intended primarily to harm the planet. To take a recent example, the discharge of waste water loaded with concrete residues into the Seine demonstrates the total lack of consideration for the environmental consequences, but cannot constitute a concerted action aimed at directly causing damage to an ecosystem. Finally, the opportunity to raise ecocide to the same rank as crimes against humanity in terms of imprescriptibility may raise reservations. If the damage to the environment is eminently serious, can it be placed on the same footing as the crimes directly affecting the human species and constituting the most appalling pages in our history? We question each other. These various elements make the crime of ecocide inoperative as it is. Beyond its very difficult characterization, there is a blurring of what this bill proposes to penalize: the explanatory memorandum itself acknowledges that the examples given could not fall within the scope of this offence. If we understand the intention, however, we struggle to understand concretely what could be covered by the crime of ecocide. [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] For these reasons, the IUD, Action and Independent Group cannot support this bill and will abstain, while commending the merit of this text. It provides us with an opportunity to discuss this vital issue and the need to defend it on the international stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u371	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u372	We're at the end of a cycle. Two centuries ago, liberalism liberated the greedy forces of growth, inaugurating thermo-industrial civilization on our common land. "Let it go, let it go," said the first promoters of a current of thought that succeeded so well that man, for the first time in his history, kneeled nature before him. It's the anthropocene, and we're in the middle of it. But freedom, the right, have as its counterpart the duty, the responsibility. The individual freedom to enrich itself is a corollary of the collective duty of solidarity. The social rights of 1946 rebalanced the necessary but selfish freedoms of 1789. If our responsibility to others has been restored, it has not been restored to nature. Now, as Seneca said, "The true wisdom is not to depart from nature, but to cast our conduct upon its laws and its model. These laws and models are now referred to as the ecosystem. It is these ecosystems that are gradually exterminated by industrial civilization. We know this, but we continue, head down, accustomed that we are in the cult of growth and jobs, even though, as Philippe Saint-Marc recalled, "The cost of protecting the natural environment is much lower than the cost of its reconstruction. The defence of nature is profitable for nations. » In the face of this evidence, I prefer to resort to law rather than fatalism of inaction. Many lawyers, such as Valérie Cabanes, have been working for several years on the concept of ecocide crime. This criminal concept is based on a correct premise: nature is not one thing, it is not a movable good, an inert matter cut off from humanity. I know that it is extremely difficult to understand in the West because, in Judeo-Christian thought, the divine does not inhabit the world, he is out of the world. Nature is not divine, it is a thing created in the service of men, enslaved to men. It is obvious that the ecosystem represents an autarchic unit of plant, animal, but also human life: it is the complete expression of what the Ancients called the natural city. Destroying an ecosystem is the same thing as razing a city from the map, deporting a people, exterminating a nation. These abominations of history have ended up being repressed in public law, but this work is not yet over. To achieve this, the criminalization and recognition of ecocide is in line with the consolidation of natural law, after the criminalization of war crimes and crimes against humanity. This recognition is the logical result of a legal, but also anthropological, evolution, which led us to understand that the social contract could no longer be directed against nature, but that it should be concluded with it, for its protection. Anthropocentrism of minds will make cynics laugh; A lazy pragmatism will end up convincing the skeptics. Indeed, a bill on the subject had been examined in the Senate and rejected on the grounds that it was impossible to make the French Republic the gendarmerie of the planet. I am certainly in favour of recognizing the crime of ecocide at the level of international law, through the treaty instrument, but have Members of the third state of which we are successors waited for international conventions to proclaim human and citizen rights?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u373	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u374	On many subjects, from the taxation of financial transactions to the taxation of GAFAs – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – the Republic has been able to lead the way and has behaved in the eyes of other nations as beacons of progress. I understand that, according to the theory of games, France may be afraid of adopting a tool that would criminalise its companies without the other countries following it in this direction. This is a well-known paradox of gaming theory: how profitable is it to take the first step? However, when we are experiencing the sixth mass extinction and the worst scenarios of the IPCC – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – are confirmed, this paradox loses its interest. In order for there to be a game theory, there still has to be a game. At this rate, however, the game will soon be over. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Jimmy Pahun also applauds]] I have no doubt that many well-made heads and brilliant minds continue to sneeze when they are spoken of as ecocides. I will simply recall Darwin's precept: "The species that survive are neither the smartest nor the strongest. These are the ones that best adapt to change. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u375	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u376	The ecological emergency reminds us of one fundamental thing: it brings human beings back to their status as species. The sixth mass extinction of species is under way. 60% of wild vertebrates have disappeared in 50 years. In Europe, 80% of insects and 421 million birds have disappeared. Our survival depends on ecosystems. For example, one third of food production depends on insects and pollinating birds. The urgency is understood in one figure: France has exceeded six of the nine planetary limits, limits that must not be exceeded in order to ensure the preservation of ecosystems, thus our survival. Who is responsible for this situation? Of course, we have entered the anthropocene era, an age when human activities are changing the physical composition of the planet, but it is mainly the ninety largest oil, gas and coal-producing companies, which alone are responsible for 50% of the rise in temperatures and 30% of the rise in ocean levels since 1880. Ecology is a struggle, minister. It redraws the whole political field with, on the one hand, the supporters of the survival of the species, whose objective interest is the survival and good life of human beings, and, on the other, the very small minority interested in its sole profit, whose interest is to ignore the problem in order to safeguard its capital and heritage in the short term. Environmental emergency is a fight that can only be fought by collectively identifying and naming its enemies. These are called Total, Monsanto and Vinci. They must be named and punished. I would therefore like to thank the Socialist and Related Group for allowing us to have this important discussion in order to ensure that the crime of ecocide is recognised. For everyone knows these ecocides, even if they remain unpunished. They report on what sociologist Annie Thébaud-Mony described as a "licence to kill" given to transnationals, citing the example of chlordecone. Everyone knew what it was like since at least 1976, but this insecticide was used in the West Indies until 1993, polluting land and water for 700 years and poisoning the Antillese, who hold the sad record of the highest rate of prostate cancer in the world. Today, sanctions are so derisory that crimes against humanity committed through the destruction of the environment, both in times of peace and in times of war, remain largely unpunished, especially since transnationals escape their responsibility by defeating their subsidiaries. This is how the worst damage to our ecosystems can continue. The fight for the recognition of the ecocide, led notably by lawyers and associations for forty years, follows the Vietnam War, during which the US army dumped the orange agent. To whom can today turn the many cancer-stricken families and the parents of babies born with malformations? No one. Trafficking in toxic waste also persists without great threat. One of the most telling cases remains that of the Probo Koala, the oil ship which, in 2006, discharged 581 tons of waste in Côte d'Ivoire, which, once spread on land in the landfill area, caused deadly gas fumes. Seventeen people died and 50,000 were intoxicated. What was the sanction? A million dollars, on a traffic that earns $73 billion! I would add that this conviction was handed down only for failure to comply with the nature of the waste, and not for the act itself. Recently, Vinci acknowledged that it had spilled water loaded with concrete residues directly into the Seine. What happened? Nothing, considering the huge profits of this transnational. Millions of people suffer from the widespread deterioration of the Earth ecosystem, food shortages and lack of water, drought, rising waters, but neither the biosphere nor the humans who depend on it are recognized as victims of harm. There is no such offence in international law. However, alongside the countries that have already committed themselves, France could be a driving force and stop these crimes against the environment. It cannot continue to be the country in which citizens would be asked to make efforts, while leaving the biggest polluters and murderers unpunished. Hear that we can no longer ask the people for everything and nothing for those who hold power and pollute. Citizens are aware of environmental issues. The marches for climate, which in France led several hundred thousand people to the streets, showed that young people were waiting for drastic changes and that the impoverishing system in which we live is the same one that destroys the Earth. It's a system that needs to be stopped. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, as well as on several benches of the SOC group]] By refusing recognition of the crime of ecocide, you continue to leave these transnationals unpunished. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when are we finally going to live up to our planet and the peoples who inhabit it? When are we finally going to stop the enemies of humanity's survival?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u377	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u378	Mr rapporteur, I would like to begin by thanking you and your group for this bill. I am also grateful to you for citing all those who have been alerting us on these issues for decades, fighting and, for many of them, seeking to have the concept of environmental crime recognized and included in French law. They've been fighting this battle for a long time. I am therefore particularly happy and proud to discuss this issue with you, but I will be even more so if we reach our end. Whether it is climate or the preservation of our ecosystems, the finding is worrying – and the word is weak. Today, human activities cause a severe and extremely rapid deterioration of our natural environment, as well as of our quality of life and health. 75% of the Earth's environment has been altered by human activity and the degradation of our environment is endangering our species. In the face of this critical situation, the reports no longer merely act as an alert. They show how the situation worsens from week to week. The young people, who are not the only ones to mobilize, blame us, certainly rightly, for our inaction or the weakness of our action in this field. In fact, today we are given the opportunity to seek to act, and to act better. The authors propose to strengthen environmental law by tightening the penalties for pollution and defining new and truly dissuasive offences. I listened to you, Madam Minister. According to you, there is already a legislative arsenal; But it is not because we will recognize the term ecocide that we will not have to rely on current environmental law or enforce it better. Mr. Bouillon's proposal adds something. I want proof of this, if necessary, of the derisory sanctions imposed under the existing legislative arsenal. I am thinking of an example that we all need to have in mind: the Total group, called into question for chartering the Erika, was ordered to pay an amount – I had to read it carefully several times before believing – of 375000 euros. Given the weakness of the sanctions, how would multinationals like this one, launched in search of profit and permanent accumulation, give up committing acts of environmental crime? In your opinion, the bill would be too vague. But since it was introduced a few months ago in the Senate, our colleague has reworked it, taking into account your arguments. It has improved its drafting. The definition of ecocide in article 1 is more precise, and refers this crime to the order of the exceptional. The creation of new incriminations in French law must not obscure the need to improve, as a matter of urgency, the application of existing environmental law. It's a battle we have to fight. We still have many victories to win in the field of environmental law. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] Jacques Chirac was quoted in this debate. It is not our custom to refer to it, but everyone remembers its sentence: "Our house burns, and we look elsewhere." That's good. Ecocide is the act of killing the house. This common house is the only one we have. All of us, therefore, have a better chance of saving her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u379	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u380	This bill gives us the opportunity to address the key issue of preserving our ecosystems. The litany of the examples and their dramatic aspect lead us to consider it without delay. Let us be pleased that a debate on this subject is taking place here. However, and in line with our positions in committee, the Group of the Republic on the move will not support the provisions contained in this text, which sin by a number of defects which I shall mention. This does not mean, however, that the debate must stop or that we must not act. The urgency is there, it requires appropriate responses. We disagree with it, but at least we can discuss it. The fight against environmental crime is one of the constant concerns of the majority; the President of the Republic reaffirmed this summer following the fires that ravaged more than 9 million hectares of Amazonian forest. The facts described as ecocide justify the development of international provisions. This is one of the objectives of the Global Environmental Compact, for which we are mobilized, and I note that most of the examples cited in previous interventions are of an international dimension. At the national level, it is important to stress that the existing legislative arsenal already allows to respond to all the situations encountered, without it being established that the creation of a new general offence would meet a real need. Provisions of environmental criminal law already provide for penalties for damage to fauna or flora, pollution of water, the emission of polluting substances into the atmosphere or the mismanagement of waste. These are complemented by a set of administrative sanctions allowing an operator to be required to comply with its obligations, under penalty of financial penalties, and without the need to bring the matter before the criminal court. The perpetrator of environmental damage may also be ordered to pay large amounts of damages. Since 2016, the Environmental Code has recognized the existence of autonomous ecological damage, which can be redressed. The Act establishing the French Office for Biodiversity, which we have adopted, has considerably strengthened the powers of environmental inspectors. Finally, the mission entrusted by the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, and the custody of the seals to the General Council on the Environment and Sustainable Development and the General Inspectorate of Justice, which aims to strengthen the effectiveness of environmental law, must render its conclusions very soon. In particular, it will assess the value of specialisation of judges responsible for the suppression of environmental offences. As far as the definition of ecocide is concerned, I will not repeat the very full statement made by the Minister. I believe that its wording suffers from too many imprecisions to meet the constitutional requirement of clarity of the criminal law. The crime of ecocide is built on the model of the crime of genocide. Nevertheless, while the latter refers to specific physical acts, the crime of ecocide is defined only by its consequences on the environment. No reference is made to specific behaviours that are likely to harm the environment and – or – the health of people. For its part, the term ecosystem appears imprecise, does not satisfy the constitutional principle of legality of offences and penalties and applies on very different scales. Such criminalization is likely to undermine the constitutional principles of the necessity and proportionality of penalties, due to the manifest disproportion between the punishable conduct and the penalty incurred. The definition of the moral element through knowledge of consequences also poses a significant difficulty, while the crime of characterized recklessness that has contributed to the serious destruction of an ecosystem presents the same difficulties of definition. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This debate is useful, important, and must be continued; But the difficulties that I have just identified lead us to reject the provisions that are proposed here. The law must not only be strong in its principles and message, but must also be operational. In this case, this need does not seem to us to be satisfied. The Government is constantly working towards a right to the protective environment: let it continue this reflection and await the imminent conclusion of the work undertaken to establish an effective transnational system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u381	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u382	The protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is a major challenge; The Republicans are happy to recognize this. We share this view and cannot and do not have the right to be indifferent to it. This issue must be one of the cornerstones of our public policies. However, the way in which this bill deals with it is, at least, surprising. I do not go back to the fact that once again, the fundamental issue of ecology is unfortunately addressed from the punitive point of view, and this to the extreme. However, we had seen a glimmer of hope in that regard. Indeed, the proposal for a law of the same group to create a climate premium and to combat energy insecurity, which we discussed earlier in the morning, had been dealt with in the opposite way, with a strong incentive dimension. That is one of the reasons why our group supported this text, and we can only regret that the Government and the majority did not endorse this proposal. To return to this text, you point to a legitimate problem: too often, our energy consumption, our production processes and our modes of travel have an adverse effect on the environment. But your proposal raises questions of interpretation that we consider to be adversarial. What is an ecosystem? Is this the planet? From the garden pool? No clarification is given. What is an irreversible attack? When and on what scale are we talking about irreversibility? In committee, our colleague Antoine Savignat had taken the example of the overuse of French forests throughout history. These ecosystem damage were severe, but fortunately reversible, and the forests were replanted. Consequently, in the absence of a clear definition, everything and its opposite may fall within the scope of the new offences provided for in the proposed law. This uncertainty also relates to the legal or illegal nature of the activities subject to sanctions. Of two things one: or the device is intended for exceptional cases and its scope is almost null, and therefore irrelevant, or its design is extensive and the absence of a clear demarcation line appears problematic, given the heavy nature of the penalties envisaged – up to 20 years' imprisonment and 10 million euros' fine for a natural person. The mere fact that we are trying to assess the relevance of its provisions illustrates the shortcomings of this text. Furthermore, in addition to the fact that the crimes relating to ecocides would be imprescriptible, we do not share the desire to confer universal jurisdiction on French courts over ecocide crimes committed abroad, as is the case for crimes against humanity and genocide. Therefore, since the objective is legitimate but this tool is not desirable as it stands, what should be done? For our group, the establishment of a unified international framework would be the best solution. Such an approach, which could be defended by our country in the appropriate forums, would in our view be far preferable to the national framework proposed to us, which is essentially symbolic and whose contours are uncertain. As a result, the Republican Group will unfortunately not be able to support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u383	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u384	The melting of permafrost, the acidification of the oceans, the multiplication of canicular episodes, the terrible fires that ravaged the Amazon this summer and that are currently ravaging Australia, are all dramatic events making tangible and directly perceptible the many alerts that scientists have repeatedly addressed to us in numerous reports over the past thirty years. The observation is terrifying: we reach the limits of the planet and, without a change of course, the conditions of life on Earth for humanity are threatened. Faced with this terrible fact, it is up to us to apprehend this ecological crisis by being aware of its gravity and with the will to curb the human activities responsible for the damage to our environment. I would therefore like to welcome the initiative of our colleague Christophe Bouillon, who, with the consideration of this bill, allows us to hold a debate more than necessary. Despite the seriousness of environmental crimes and crimes, the criminal response remains either non-existent or ill-adapted at the international level: there are currently more than 500 multilateral environmental treaties. Such a profusion of texts ill masks the lack of effectiveness and effectiveness of international law in this field. The reasons lie in part in the dispersion, symbolic and non-binding nature and complexity of international environmental standards. The same can be observed at the national level, where the criminal law of the environment suffers from serious shortcomings: the norms are complex and their break-up between administrative law and the environmental code does not facilitate the work of judges. It is a fact that this dispersal of the law undermines the application of the law by the judiciary, and the small number of judgements handed down give a sense of impunity to the perpetrators of these offences. Therefore, is the creation of a crime of ecocide the solution? If this advance is necessary and can be part of the solution, it must not hide the immense work that we must do on our right and on its effectiveness. As it stands, this text would only have symbolic scope. Do we have to settle for it? I don't think so. Whether they are the result of mafias trading in protected species or multinationals whose activities are not adequately regulated, the plundering of natural resources will continue if we do not react. We know that in the face of the difficulty of bringing together around the design of an international law, the national track is favoured by the advocates of the recognition of ecocide, of which the authors of the bill are part. But the phenomenon is mostly transnational in nature and therefore only cooperation between States is appropriate to combat these contentious actions. I believe that we need to change our paradigm and profoundly reshape our right and our relationship to nature. Yes, France must take its full part in this matter and set an example. A overhaul of our judiciary will be much more effective in improving the effectiveness of environmental law. In January 2019, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition launched a mission entitled "Justice for the Environment". We hope that concrete proposals will be made to improve the efficiency of our law. Without assuming any conclusions from this mission, however, let me propose four ways to imagine a right that would become guardian and protector of nature. The first is ambitious and will probably require in-depth reflection beyond the scope of this bill: the creation of a legal personality for living ecosystems. The second, the corollary, is the creation of a Nature Defender, whose existence could be constitutionalized. Third, the introduction of new criminal offences, including that of ecocide – the latter should not hide the others. The final lead would be the creation of specialized prosecution offices, as suggested by lawyer Sébastien Mabile: it would significantly increase the number of prosecutions and improve the quality of investigations. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LT groups]] Thus, although interesting in principle, this bill remains largely symbolic and does not seem likely to have immediate legal effects. The MODEM and related groups believe that environmental damage deserves much more ambitious reform, commensurate with the challenges and complexity of environmental criminal law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u385	We can start with that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u386	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u387	Today's debates, proposed by the Socialist and Related Group, allow us to reflect on crucial issues of our time, and to do so – even if it heats up a little bit from time to time, which is normal in democracy – cold, if I may say so, when it comes to very worrying situations. The subject we are addressing here is part of it. I will repeat the expression used by our colleague from the MODEM group: yes, we have to change paradigms. I am firmly convinced of that. With regard to the ecological approach to global warming, I believe that we are suffering from a certain hysterization of the debate. We continue to climax public opinion, ultimately creating a context of fear, even terror, among those who are strictly for nothing, but who have the misfortune of following the television news – or any other source of information – and exclaiming "My God! in their sight. In doing so, we do not root for evil. Dear colleague Balanant, you consider this bill to be largely symbolic, but politics is about symbols! Politics is above all the art of putting forward symbols to create a dream, a project, a future – all that is so lacking! That is why I will vote in favour of the bill. Why – as I ask so often – not take evil to the root? The sources of energy we use no longer correspond to our times. It's over. We've got to get rid of the oil! It is only a cause of war and arms sales to enemies who shoot at our friends, and sometimes even at us. Yet we know – at least those who are interested in the issue – that we are ready to switch to solar energy. See renowned scientists conducting research on this subject in French and foreign institutes: we can do it! Since the commissioning of the Font-Romeu solar furnace fifty years ago, we have been able to create an energy of unprecedented power thanks to kaleidoscopic lenses focusing light – solar or not – at one point. We have the space to build the necessary facilities. In particular, we have the second maritime facade in the world, and for every kilometre of maritime facade, we have forty at sea. So we can act on a vast space like China or Australia, which is not nothing. We could make real progress in that regard. We could also make progress in the capture of tidal energy, in particular by exploiting the difference in temperatures between the bottom of the sea and its surface, which is likely to produce energy on a very large scale. I have repeatedly proposed the creation of a "motorway of the sea", linking the ports of northern Europe – Rotterdam, for example – to Bilbao, and allowing dangerous products to be transported on secure boats. I have made three proposals which are likely to limit the risks in this area. We transport very dangerous materials with tense flows. I will certainly not cry about the fate of Vinci and Total, especially since I have said more harm of Total than you will never say in your lives all together, because I almost died because of this enterprise. Today, I forgave, so I say no more harm, even though she paid the tenth of what she should have paid for the Erika shipwreck – I knew the people in charge of negotiating the deal, but let's go. I think it is necessary to vote for the text to send a signal, and to cure the evil at its root.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u388	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u389	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you: in your remarks, you have been very clear. Neither today nor tomorrow, you are not considering recognizing the crime of ecocide in the penal code. You have admitted this by stating from the outset that you will oppose this bill the same arguments as those opposed to the bill put forward by our colleague Jérôme Durain in the Senate. However, this is not the same bill. The work done in the House, as well as the hearings we have held, has helped to formulate a much more precise definition of the crime of ecocide, taking into account some of the arguments put forward in the Senate. Among the expectations of the Environment Charter, we read: "The preservation of the environment must be sought in the same way as the other fundamental interests of the Nation". In addition, Title I of Book IV of the Penal Code punishes attacks on the fundamental interests of the nation. However, there is no provision on environmental protection, even though this is exactly where they should be. You seem to consider it inappropriate to define the crime of ecocide in France on the grounds that we would not be concerned. But the ecological diversity of France, the richness of its biodiversity, concerns us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u390	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u391	[[Applause on several SOC benches]] Let me tell you something quite simple. As I understand it, France is Amazonian in the summer and is stunted in the winter. In other words, it refuses to develop and use the appropriate tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u392	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u393	In the summer, the President of the Republic spoke about the devastation caused by the burning of the Amazonian forest and used the word "ecocide"; And when we meet in Parliament to legislate, the word is inappropriate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u394	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u395	Words, words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u396	Sad confession! It is all the more a pity that the work carried out by many lawyers over the past several years should enable us to act. You propose to act at the international level, ensuring that this issue is addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u397	As always!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u398	Some of our colleagues have even cited – rightly – the Global Compact for the Environment. But everyone agrees, the latter is sanded and hardly making any progress. As part of COP25, the Spanish government sponsored and organized a meeting in which French representatives participated. However, we have not made any progress on this subject. Worse: in 1995, the first attempt to amend the Rome Statute aimed precisely at introducing the concept of ecocide was swept away, in particular because France had opposed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u399	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u400	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] I will conclude by quoting a sentence from President Chirac, who has often been, and we all know, "Our house is burning and we are looking elsewhere." Before delivering it in Johannesburg in 2002, he also said: "In a changing environment, there is no greater risk than to remain motionless." Madam Minister, with regard to ecocide, I have the feeling that you want to remain motionless.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u401	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u402	That's very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u403	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-12-12-O1100.u404	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the draft law on the recognition of the crime of ecocide; Discussion of the proposal for a law to combat medical desertification and for prevention; Discussion of the proposal for a law establishing public certification of the social and environmental performance of enterprises and testing of 21st century accounting; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a commission of inquiry into public policies to combat the spread of Aedes mosquitoes and vector diseases. The meeting is adjourned.
