ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia (No. 2344, 2429).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u2	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u3	I come to introduce, on behalf of the Government, the bill authorizing the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 7 February 2019. The text was approved by the Senate on October 17, and I hope that with your support today, our country will be able to join the number of allies that have already ratified this instrument. With the entry into force of the Protocol, Northern Macedonia would become the thirtieth member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO. I would like to come back to you in detail on France's approach during the negotiations on the accession of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty, as well as on the twofold objective of contributing to the security of the Euro-Atlantic area and consolidating our efforts to stabilise the Western Balkans. Skopje's accession to NATO is, for that country, the culmination of a process linked to its very identity, as it is the result of the settlement of the dispute over the name of the now Republic of Northern Macedonia with another ally, Greece. It is also an illustration of the role that the Alliance can play in contributing to the stabilisation of the region. With regard to the candidature and the merits of Northern Macedonia – previously provisionally recognised as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia – this is, as you know, one of the successor states of Yugoslavia, of which it declared itself independent in 1991. In 1993 France recognized this new State, which became a member of the United Nations that year. As early as 1995, NATO entered into a partnership with Skopje, which in 1999 was granted an action plan for membership of the Atlantic Alliance – MAP under the English acronym – which gave it official candidate status. Over the past 20 years, Northern Macedonia has made steady progress in the implementation of the MAP, in close dialogue with NATO: defence and security sector reform, increased interoperability in the military field, the renewal of civilian and military personnel, as well as the strengthening of the autonomy and independence of the judicial system, and the fight against organised crime and corruption. NATO's various progress reports have highlighted the real efforts made by Northern Macedonia to modernize the armed forces and reform the security and intelligence sector. As far as defence expenditure is concerned, Northern Macedonia's effort this year stands at 1.2% of GDP. This is still far from the 2% of GDP target set at the Alliance Summit in Wales in 2014, but the indicator is growing rapidly as it is expected to double to 2% by 2024, corresponding to an increase in the defence budget of EUR 300 million. The outcome of this application, however, depended on the settlement of the bilateral dispute with Greece over the country's name. Indeed, at the Bucharest Summit in 2008, the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to NATO was subject to "a mutually acceptable solution [with Greece] to the question of name", Athens refusing the name of Macedonia on the grounds that it is also a region in northern Greece. This condition was recalled at the NATO summit in Brussels in July 2018, shortly after the signature of the historic Prespa agreement by the foreign ministers of both countries on 17 June 2018. The Prespa Agreement provides that the new name of the country, both for international and internal use, is "Republic of Northern Macedonia", or "North Macedonia" in abbreviated. Skopje first fulfilled its obligations for the entry into force of the Agreement, ratifying it and amending the country's constitution. The Greek Parliament then ratified the agreement on 25 January. We must realize that this was a historic moment for both countries, for the region, for the Balkans and for Europe. A few days later, on 6 February 2019, the twenty-nine allied countries and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Northern Macedonia, Nikola Dimitrov, with whom we exchanged a great deal in the last few months, were able to sign the NATO accession protocol for Northern Macedonia. On 8 February, the Greek Parliament, the first – symbolic gesture – pronounced in favour of the ratification of the Protocol, which allowed the entry into force of the Prespa Agreement on 12 February. If the Senate and the National Assembly agree with France, and at the end of ratification procedures by all Alliance countries, Northern Macedonia will become the thirtieth member of NATO, giving it the same rights and obligations as other allies. What are the nature and situation of Northern Macedonia? A country of 2 million inhabitants, Northern Macedonia lies at the crossroads of the Balkans. It separated peacefully from Yugoslavia in 1991 and, since 2018, it has no longer had any dispute with its neighbours. It is a country composed of several communities that has experienced serious internal crises, but has managed to overcome them through dialogue, negotiation and support from the international community, in particular France. Thus, in the early 2000s, the Ohrid Framework Agreement put an end to intercommunal clashes that could have escalated into civil war. The European Union and its special representatives, François Léotard and Alain Le Roy, contributed to this result; I wanted to remind them of their efforts today. More recently, Northern Macedonia experienced a period of instability between 2014 and 2017, which was overcome by a political alternation and the formation of a new reform government with which France works closely. Moreover, Skopje has always been consistent in its foreign policy towards Europe, the European Union and NATO. On the subject of European rapprochement, which I am reminded of today, the European perspective of Northern Macedonia, like that of all the countries of the Western Balkans, has been recognised since the Zagreb Summits in 2000 and Thessaloniki in 2003. The country has been recognised as a candidate for EU membership since 2005. I would like to solemnly say that his march towards accession is obviously not called into question, on the contrary. The European Council of 17 and 18 October failed to reach agreement on the formal opening of accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania, owing to a lack of consensus. The issue will be discussed again before the EU and Balkan summit in Zagreb in 2020 – 20 years after the EU and Balkan summit. Until then, France and its partners want to find solutions to move forward on two projects that we have identified as prerequisites for the opening of accession negotiations with these two countries. On the one hand, it is important for the credibility of the process that the reforms requested by the Council of the European Union in June 2018 are effectively and concretely implemented by the countries concerned. On the other hand, we cannot open accession negotiations as part of the current accession process; We have made proposals to our European partners to reform it, to improve it in depth and to change its direction. I myself presented these proposals to the General Affairs Council on Tuesday in Brussels; We must now gain the support of our partners. The Ministers unanimously encouraged the European Commission to work on a more rigorous, gradual and concrete negotiation process that incorporates a form of reversibility – not to close the European perspective, but to ensure that it is for the benefit of the citizens that we are working. This is an important step, on a case-by-case basis, to improve things and to re-establish a deeper commitment to a process whose tensions it could create when people's expectations were disappointed. It is in this sense that we are going to work. In this context, what is the interest of our country in joining NATO in Northern Macedonia? Skopje's contribution to Alliance security will be measured, given the modest size of the country, but it will not be negligible. Between Albania and Bulgaria, Kosovo and Greece, this country provides a geographical continuum between the Balkan, Mediterranean and Black Sea worlds. This is important in the light of the strategic balances in Europe. Northern Macedonia will continue to participate in Alliance operations and missions. As a partner, the country had already been involved in Operation Resolute Support in Afghanistan. Even today, precisely because of its geographical location, Northern Macedonia continues to provide support to the NATO force in Kosovo, KFOR. Finally, what impact will North Macedonia's accession have on NATO's enlargement policy? This issue is obviously inseparable from our vision of the future of the Alliance. As you will have understood in the words of the President of the Republic, the French priority is to make an effort to reflect on NATO's values and objectives, as well as on the strategy and means the Alliance is giving itself to achieve them. These topics were discussed by Jean-Yves Le Drian and his counterparts at the meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers held yesterday in Brussels, and will also be discussed at the meeting of Heads of State and Government in London in early December. As far as Skopje is concerned, it should be remembered that NATO's enlargement policy was, in the aftermath of the cold war, a factor in strengthening the security of the European continent. In response to the European Union's strong demand for stability and security from the former Warsaw Pact member countries, the Alliance had developed flexible accession arrangements. The aim was then to contribute to a broad European security architecture where NATO and EU enlargement processes were seen as complementary. An agreement between allies on the treatment of NATO enlargement issues was reached at the Warsaw Summit in 2016. France has made sure, under this agreement, that the invitation to Northern Macedonia would not be understood as the signal of an uncontrolled enlargement. For France, the enlargement of NATO is neither a priority nor an end in itself. It can only be envisaged to the extent that it effectively enhances the security of the Euro-Atlantic space and the credibility of collective defence. That's the case with Skopje. While North Macedonia has been proposed for membership on the basis of its own merits, there is no consensus today on the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the last candidate in the region, and more eastward, Ukraine and Georgia. There will be no further enlargement without consensus on the contribution of new accessions to the security of the Euro-Atlantic area. North Macedonia's accession to NATO is in no way prejudicing the decisions that the European Union will be able to take on the accession of that country. The processes are distinct and France has wanted a debate to take place on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are, in summary, the key issues that I wanted to put before you about this accession protocol, the subject of the text proposed for your approval. I invite you to judge the bill for what it is: the means of development confined to the case of Northern Macedonia, justified in the light of the efforts made by Skopje and the historic agreement of Prespa, and of accession which is a positive sign for the stability of the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u4	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u5	Mrs Mireille Clapot, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u6	The bill before us is intended to authorize, as a result of the Senate, the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty Protocol on the Accession of Northern Macedonia. After the end of our parliamentary procedure, the text will have to be ratified only by the Netherlands and Spain for Northern Macedonia to become the thirtieth member of the Atlantic Alliance. What is Northern Macedonia? It is a country bordered to the south and east by the European Union – Greece and Bulgaria –, to the north by Kosovo, like it former federated republic within Yugoslavia, and to the west by Albania. A country of 2 million inhabitants, including three quarters of Orthodox Slavs and one quarter of Albanians. A country that only exists since 1991 and has had to change its name, death in the soul, despite the magnitude of the sacrifice. A country that has been the scene of three conflicts: Balkan Wars, First and Second World War. A country whose capital is now called Skopje, but whose name was in 1918 Uskub and which was then the scene of the eponymous battle – allow me, on this occasion, to address a friendly greeting to the first Spahis regiment of Valencia, in Drôme, for whom the Battle of Uskub was founded. A country, finally, which has seen with lucidity its isolation and has courageously taken the necessary decisions to join the concert of nations. To talk about Northern Macedonia is to draw attention to this European region called the Balkans, and I am pleased that our Assembly is now looking at this area with a careful look. These countries are at the edge of the Slavic, Latin and Albanian worlds; Catholicism, orthodoxy and Islam are associated. They are on the road to migration from the Near and Middle East, but also from Afghanistan, and heading towards Northern and Western Europe. Russian and Turkish ambitions continue to express themselves, but face the will of a large part of the population to integrate the Euro-Atlantic area. We all have in mind the terrible conflicts arising from the break-up of the former Yugoslavia. We know the appetites of the great powers for these fragile areas. Russia claims to be close to the Orthodox, but is strongly suspected of manipulating opinion and voting using its usual methods. Turkey sees itself as the godmother of the former Ottoman Rumelia countries, but has less attraction than Europe and is tempted to handle intimidation. Asymmetric conflicts linked to terrorism and trafficking of all kinds are more likely than elsewhere in Europe, even though conflicts between States are not completely impossible. The security stakes are therefore considerable. However, since the independences of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, the integration of the entire subregion into our Euro-Atlantic defence zone is still not complete. But geopolitics, like nature, hates emptiness. If the gate remains closed too long to the west, the peoples of the region and their governments will eventually respond to the appeals of eastern – Russia – and south-eastern – Turkey. As they make every effort to join us, is it our interest to bring these countries closer to more or less hostile powers? Of course not. That is why I am convinced that we must quickly allow Balkan countries in general, and Northern Macedonia in particular, to join us. We would first integrate them into our common defence system, although it is likely to be recast to enable greater European autonomy to defend our strategic interests, which are not always those of the United States. NATO, as we are talking about it, is going through a triple crisis. However, it is not by naming the crisis that we make it happen: using the strong formula of "brain death", the President of the Republic has only taken note of three major transformations. First, the growing disengagement of the United States, since the refusal to engage in Syria in 2013, despite the crossing of the red line set by Barack Obama, until the withdrawal of Syria without consultation by Donald Trump, is obviously a strategic challenge. Recent developments in the north-east of Syria, where Turkey has made its army penetrate without prior consultation with its allies, also question the mutual assistance clause. Finally, the third aspect of the crisis: the very responsibility of Europeans to ensure their security is at stake. In preparation for the London summit on 3 and 4 December, an analysis will be launched on the major issues of collective security; The Secretary of State recalled. In any event, NATO is now the only security tool at our disposal. It must benefit the countries of the Western Balkans as has been the case for the other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Of course, like the elephant in the room, as the English say, another issue is the integration of the Balkan countries into the European Union, in particular of Northern Macedonia and Albania, which have been emerging since the opening of accession negotiations was postponed at the European Council in October. Even if this is not the subject of the day, I would like to make it clear, as the Secretary of State has done, that the process of integration will be reformed and that it will take time, but that the door has not closed. From a geographical and cultural point of view as a strategic point of view, the place of Albania and Northern Macedonia is within the European family. Where are we? In recent days, France has presented a project to reform the process of accession to the European Union. It appears to be more legible because it is organized into seven blocks of public policy; rigorous and verifiable; more incentive, in that it will allow real advances for the populations; and reversible, in order to counter any eventuality. Some countries have already indicated their interest in these proposals; Of course, I'm happy about that. It's a case to keep a close eye on. After this overview, I would like to elaborate on the reasons why I fully support the accession protocol: because we committed ourselves to it at the Bucharest Summit in 2008, by imposing as the sole suspensive condition that Macedonia maintain good-neighbourly relations; and because we'd better. Northern Macedonia has made great efforts to remove obstacles to its full integration into the Euro-Atlantic package. It initially resolved the issue of the Albanian minority by the Ohrid Accords in 2001, which enabled the entire population – both Slavic and Albanian – to participate in the same demonstrations that helped to put an end to the authoritarian power of Nikola Gruevski. Albano-North-Macedonian relations are now quite good and can serve as an example for other Balkan countries where minority issues still arise. Northern Macedonia then settled its historical dispute with Greece over the name of the country through the Prespa agreements, which came into force in February 2019. This agreement was a tear, requiring the commitment of all the progressive forces of the country, but it was successful. If you add to this the strict application of European rules during the 2015 migration crisis, the participation of the country's modest army in coalitions in the Levant and Afghanistan, the development of the national integration plan and participation in interoperability exercises, you will have understood that Northern Macedonia is now waiting for a gesture from Europeans and their allies. The Protocol of Accession of Northern Macedonia is a classic protocol which will allow the country mainly to benefit from the clause of mutual assistance in case of conflict: the famous Article 5 of the Charter of the Alliance. However, there is no provision for the parking of any foreign army in the country. That is how our commitments have been fulfilled. As for the interest we have in seeing accession succeed, security in the region, the stability of this area, the prosperity that can result, are all benefits for us. Finally, the accession of Northern Macedonia can be an opportunity for France in terms of military cooperation. A bilateral arms committee was formed, the last meeting of which was held in Skopje on 25 June 2018. It should take a new impetus after the country's accession to NATO. My last word will be about Russia. When we talk about NATO enlargement, we immediately remember the Georgian and Ukrainian examples. The Balkans and Northern Macedonia, however, have never been Soviet republics; They have never even been part of the "near stranger." Therefore, the accession of this country cannot be regarded as a provocation towards Moscow – which has only manifested an opposition in principle – only as a security of the south-eastern part of our continent at a time when all the factors of insecurity are taking advantage of these grey areas to develop. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] In conclusion, because we have committed ourselves to it and because we have an interest in it, I invite you to pass the bill allowing North Macedonia's accession to NATO.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u8	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u9	First of all, I would like to thank Mireille Clapot for his excellent report on North Macedonia's accession to NATO, adopted yesterday morning by our committee. On this occasion, the committee yesterday discussed the place of the Balkans in Europe, the security challenges they face, and our necessary cooperation with them to guarantee them the protection to which they are entitled. We have also discussed the future of NATO, which is a topical issue. Seventy years ago, in the context of the cold war and the arms race, the creation of NATO was an emergency. It was the sine qua non for the security of Western Europe and undoubtedly helped to build a lasting peace. Nevertheless, since 1949, the world has changed profoundly: it is experiencing new instability and conflicts of a new kind; He saw the emergence of new military powers and new threats. In the light of recent events in the north-east of Syria, we have seen that some of our allies have failed in the solidarity we expected of them: the United States, by deciding without any agreement to leave the international coalition against terrorism; and Turkey, by intervening militarily against the Syrian Democratic Forces that had helped win the territorial fight against Daesh at the very cost of their lives. In doing so, Turkey was breaking the ties and solidarity that should have forced Ankara towards its partners, in particular the European NATO countries. The debate must now begin on NATO's re-foundation, its vocation, its missions, its organisation, its strategic aims. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, in conjunction with the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, will hold a round table and a meeting on this major issue of NATO's future next Wednesday morning. It is up to France, together with its European allies, to begin a fundamental reflection on a re-foundation of NATO at the summit of 3 and 4 December in London, with a view to adapting the organisation to the new challenges of our century, and to the necessary strategic autonomy of a unified Europe. This means building, in parallel, a stronger European sovereignty and solidarity in the field of defence. Let us do so by hearing the concerns of our Eastern European partners about Russia and by understanding that their need for security and protection is existential. We really need to engage in this long-term reflection on the best ways to ensure our security, to preserve peace on our continent and to defend our interests and values when they are threatened. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and SOC groups]] I hope that with the NATO crisis, which has begun because of Turkish military intervention in the north-east of Syria, France and Europeans will finally find the power and energy to invent a truly common future for themselves and to decide to exist on their own.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u10	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u11	I will begin by expressing my deep and complete disagreement with the method that guides the majority of our discussions on bills authorizing the ratification of international agreements. Let us be clear: North Macedonia's accession to NATO was already signed by NATO member countries on Wednesday, 6 February, in Brussels, when no prior parliamentary debate had taken place. Admittedly, it is up to us to ratify, but I do not agree with this method of engaging the French word before organising this kind of debate, which therefore appears rather marginal. As you do not give us a choice, I will simply reaffirm my deep disagreement about NATO itself. In this regard, I found an ally in the person of the President of the Republic, whose statements of 7 November did not leave us indifferent. In his words, NATO would be in a "brain death" situation. And it is this body, so described by the highest figure in the state, that you wish once again to expand, without ever thinking further – even though I have heard, Madame de Sarnez, that you have the same wish. The "brain death" of this body means that it is now unable to lead and actively reflect. It would not, however, be a real death, according to a statement by Florence Parly, according to which it would be a "state of crisis". We have been doing this for a long time. The reasons for these statements are known: this is essentially Turkey's offensive against the Kurds, endorsed by the North Americans, but without first notifying their NATO partners. Such a warlike initiative may have had the effect of a spark that made the executive clairvoyant. If we can enlighten you further, let us recall the repeated demand of the Presidents of the United States that each of the NATO member states spend 2% of its GDP on military spending. This tribute imposes a tutelage on supposedly free countries and has the unconvinced aim of reviving the US war industry. That's all at stake in these manoeuvres. The aim, barely veiled, is to have NATO members buy equipment that is inter-operational with that of the United States. In this respect, Northern Macedonia will not be spared. Why bring this country into NATO if it is not to take this former Yugoslav Republic out of Russian influence? Can we truly believe that such a rapprochement will lead to de-escalation in a context of heightened tensions on the European continent? It'll be the other way around! We therefore wish to reaffirm our doctrine: that of French independence, the only one able to defend France's interests in the service of peace. From Afghanistan to Kosovo through Libya, there is no more evidence that NATO is, more than anything else, a war machine that causes multiple provocations. In the theatres of operations where this organization has deployed, its bellicist policy has only aggravated tensions and destabilized regions. Last March, NATO manoeuvres in Georgia again set fire to powder with Russia. In November 2018, NATO led Exercise Trident Juncture to Norway, the largest military manoeuvres since the Cold War: 50,000 soldiers from thirty-one countries, including 3,000 French soldiers, were mobilized at the gates of Russia. Such manoeuvres are not defensive operations aimed at promoting peace. We believe that they fuel a particularly dangerous spiral. Is it necessary to recall that, in order to guard against such chaos, General de Gaulle, some of whom may still claim to be here, had defeated in 1963, when the Elysée Treaty with Germany was signed, in order to protect our sovereignty by excluding any reference to the Atlantic Alliance? Since 1999, NATO has continuously integrated the former satellites of the USSR. The accession of Northern Macedonia confirms this expansion to the sides of Russian territory. Even as new territories were placed under the guron of the United States, provocations followed each other without respite. We have seen how Turkey, a member of NATO since 1952, has carried out an illegal and criminal offensive against the Kurdish people, who, however, had fought relentlessly against the Islamic State for almost five years. In this case, NATO has in no way shown that it represents a force of peace and stability in the region. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that you not only refuse to ratify this agreement, but also resume our military and strategic independence by asking us the question of stopping our participation in NATO.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u13	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u14	Does the North Atlantic Treaty Organization still have a future? If she is in a state of "cerebral death", to use the terms used by Emmanuel Macron, why join a new country? These are, in essence, the only two questions that are relevant to our debate. For Communist Members, the answer to the first question is simple: we believe that NATO can never be a balanced organization, for at least five reasons. First, with regard to command, all NATO members are accountable for Washington's decisions, while Washington is not accountable to anyone. Secondly, since this organization is de facto led by the United States, and since it is a kind of common defence pot, the United States demands that Member States spend money to arm themselves, a lot of money. As the United States is the world's largest arms seller, Member States mainly source their supplies from the United States. This country thus controls both supply and demand. Third, the weapons purchased all meet the same standards so that allies can work in interoperability. Of course, but who creates these standards? The Americans, of course! The problem is that they have requirements for others that they do not apply to themselves. NATO's military communication system, for example, allows the Pentagon to learn all the communications of the Alliance's armies, while the Pentagon system cannot be known by other allies. In other words, an organization headed by a single State requires the other 28 members to spend considerable sums of money to purchase equipment that will allow it to retain control over those States. Strange alliance design! Fourthly, the issue of the status of alliances is even more serious at a time when Turkey, a member of NATO, has decided to invade Syria, in violation of international law. Let us ask one question among others: in the event of a conflict between the Republic of Cyprus and the part of the island occupied by Turkey, which of the two would we choose? The European Union's ally or NATO's ally? Fifthly, NATO, or rather the United States, which has been out of work since the collapse of the Soviet bloc, has chosen Russia as its enemy, deeply unbalanced international relations over the ruins of the old world and the cold war. If the United States wants to be Russia's enemies, it's great for them! But let them leave aside the European Union, which has a common border with this country, and which has been built on the values of peace and openness. The twenty-eight Member States of the European Union are members of NATO. They have their hands bound by this treaty, and are drawn, in spite of them, into a vicious circle where fear opens the way to military provocations, provocations which provoke over-armament as expensive as it is useless. Take a vicious circle: the more you caress it, the more vicious it will become, could have said one of our great authors! For communists, an alliance must be organized around the equality of those who are members of it, around common values and mutual respect. This is not objectively the case in NATO. I come specifically to the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to NATO. Why take North Macedonia into this mess? The desire for NATO's expansion to the east of Europe is a desire to contain Russia in a restricted area of influence and geographical location. Like Poland or the Baltic countries, Northern Macedonia is used as a kind of buffer zone at the borders of the Slavic and Russian worlds – oriental marches, we would have said before. NATO will therefore welcome Northern Macedonia not for friendly reasons, but with all the strategic cynicism that characterizes this alliance. Communist deputies do not think that bringing Northern Macedonia into an organization in a state of "cerebral death" is a gift. If the words of the President of the Republic are sincere, his majority should refuse to allow France to ratify the protocol: it is hypocritical to want to validate the accession of North Macedonia after having demonstrated the usefulness of NATO, unless the aim is to push Macedonia to buy weapons in order to devote 2% of its GDP to its defence... [[Smile]] You will have understood it – if it is not the case, I can resume all my intervention –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u15	Yes, again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u16	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against the ratification of this protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u17	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u18	First of all, I would like to greet the many friends of Macedonia who are present this morning both on the benches of the Chamber and in the public forums. We do not talk so often about this country, and it is really happy that we can do so in public as we did in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. North Macedonia's accession to NATO is ultimately only the conclusion of a long journey since 1996, twenty-three years in which the country has been able to overcome its old demons. I am thinking of inter-ethnic conflicts – the Orhid agreements signed in August 2001 ended the conflict between Macedonians and Albanians – and the identity conflict with Greece. On this last point, the Prespa agreement signed on 17 June 2018, a true heartbreak, changes the situation by allowing a historical reconciliation with Greece. Northern Macedonia has also prepared for defence. She has participated in various exercises organized by NATO, and she has strengthened her equipment and continues to do so with a dedicated plan. It has also given credibility to foreign policy. Today, NATO membership is one of the priorities of Northern Macedonia. As some of you have said, ladies and gentlemen, in particular President Chassaigne: this may seem strange at a time when NATO is going through one of the greatest crises in its history – even if it is not the first. We could have decided to close for work, to stop any reflection and to freeze the situation, but we do not think that the integration of Northern Macedonia into the Alliance poses any major problems. Why? Firstly, this integration is a continuation of the past accessions of neighbouring countries such as Bulgaria and Romania, Albania and Croatia, or just over two years ago, Montenegro. Why would the door close today in front of Macedonia?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u19	From the North!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u20	You're right, Madam President! Northern Macedonia aspires to stability. Let us remember that the last NATO war in Europe, some 20 years ago, was at the borders of this country! We need to protect the region; But NATO is making it possible to do so. Secondly, far from Russia, at the heart of the Balkans, the accession of that country cannot be interpreted as a provocation to anyone. It is not about joining Ukraine or Georgia, which is sensitive to the great neighbour's eyes. Thirdly, the accession of North Macedonia to NATO will make it possible to disseminate more widely the principles of the Alliance that we all share: respect for the rule of law, the need for democratic control of the armed forces and the absence of conflict with neighbouring countries. That is why the country's accession to NATO is an additional step for peace and stability in the Western Balkans. It is a first objective for Northern Macedonia, the second being accession to the European Union. On this point, I agree with President Chassaigne: France is not mistaken; NATO and the European Union are not the two sides of the same coin. Some countries are members of the European Union without NATO membership – there were three of them, but the United Kingdom is likely to be added tomorrow to Iceland, Norway and Turkey. Other countries such as Sweden, Austria or Finland are members of the Union but remain outside NATO. Assimilating the two memberships would make the European Union a Euro-Atlantic entity, which we do not want. North Macedonia's accession to NATO is therefore not a prerequisite for the opening of the process of accession to the European Union. We have been very pleased to acknowledge the European vocation of Northern Macedonia for a very long time. The Prespa Agreement removes the last in principle obstacle to accession. However, France – it is not the only one – did not wish to give its green light to the opening of negotiations between the European Union and the two Balkan countries, for the sake of coherence. Indeed, some Europeans are fleeing forward and want enlargement without agreeing to finance it or seeking to make Europe more effective. We must learn from past enlargements, successes and failures. That is why the President of the Republic has made the opening of the negotiations subject to several developments: Northern Macedonia must complete internal reforms; It is also necessary to reform the process of accession to the European Union – France has tabled its proposals on this subject, and it was really time, Madam Secretary of State. Finally, European governance must be made more effective. It is not a question of referring the opening of negotiations to the Macedonian calendia, but of meeting the necessary conditions as soon as possible. France made proposals; The ball is in our partners' camp. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, the Republic on the move Group fully supports North Macedonia's accession to NATO.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u21	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u22	At its inception in 1949, the Atlantic Alliance had twelve founding members. Since then, successive enlargements have led to the ever-increasing "Europeanisation" of the Alliance, which now has twenty-six European countries, including twenty-two members of the European Union, out of a total of twenty-nine members. We are meeting to discuss the accession of a thirtieth member, since the Government is asking Parliament to authorize the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of North Macedonia. While the first issue to be considered in terms of enlargement is, logically, that of the country's contribution in the field of security and military capabilities, it is not an insult to Northern Macedonia to stress that its integration into the Alliance will not upset the great balances in this area. The rapporteur referred to the fact that the country's annual budgetary effort to defend it represents 1.2% of GDP, i.e. only EUR 135 million. Nevertheless, let us welcome the country's commitment to bring it to 2% of GDP by 2024, in order, among other things, to modernize its armed forces. Let me also hope that our industrialists will find their place in this process of modernization and demonstrate the excellence of their know-how. Northern Macedonia's financial contribution will also represent, according to our Senate colleagues, 0.0721% of NATO's budget, making it one of the smallest contributors alongside Iceland and Montenegro. In this context, the consideration of the bill is also an opportunity for the Republican Group to recall certain points which it considers essential with regard to the future of the Alliance. First, NATO's enlargement is not intended to continue indefinitely. Its credibility must be the priority. Let us not lose in cohesion what we would gain in extension! We believe that the possible accessions of Georgia and Ukraine to the organization could undermine the credibility of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. Moreover, we do not want to see untimely enlargements making our relations with Russia even more complex. That is why we are surprised by Ukraine's choice to host the spring 2020 session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Was that really necessary? Secondly, integration into NATO does not mechanically imply integration into the European Union, contrary to what the waves of 1999 and 2004 suggested. That is why we are particularly pleased with the turnaround of the President of the Republic on this subject: after being in favour of it at the Western Balkans Summit in Trieste on 12 July 2017, the Head of State fortunately opposed the enlargement of the European Union to include Albania and Northern Macedonia at the European Summit on 17 and 18 October. Since then, I have admitted that we have had some difficulty in understanding his true position on the subject. We are in any case in favour of a recast of the accession process. We wish you, Madam Secretary of State, more success in your discussions with your counterparts on this thorny issue in the future. Thirdly, by evoking NATO's "brain death", the head of state did not go there with a dead hand! For the Republican Group, there is also an invitation to discuss in depth the future of the Alliance, and Parliament must take its full part in the reflection. As you said, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: next week the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees will receive several personalities to discuss the subject. I welcome this initiative that you have taken with the Chair of the Defence Committee. It is time, however, to hold a real debate in the Chamber. [[Ms. Liliana Tanguy applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Members of the Republican Group of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly have expressed their support for the ratification of the protocol. Moreover, our group believes that Northern Macedonia should not be at the expense of our legitimate questions. That is why, despite the reluctance expressed by some of our colleagues, the Republicans will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u24	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u25	We wanted to put on the agenda of our Assembly the North Macedonia NATO accession agreement. This seems all the more legitimate as a debate has begun on the future of this organization after the events of recent news, which have sown doubts among its members. The President of the Republic himself has recently declared himself in favour of redefining NATO's strategic objectives and goals, while NATO is undergoing multiple crises. A crisis of adership, first of all: that of the United States, of course, for which cooperation with its European partners seems to have become secondary in defence. It is only to see the unilateral decisions taken by the Americans in Syria in recent weeks. They are in line with President Barack Obama's renunciation when it came to replying to Syria when it crossed the red line set by the international community. A crisis of solidarity, then, between the members of the organisation. We have seen this with Turkey's coup de force in northern Syria, even though Turkey is a member of NATO. This event highlighted the organisation's third crisis: that of European defence, which concerns us first and foremost and must mobilise all of us. It is on this last point that we need to address urgently. Several initiatives have been taken by the President of the Republic, with the support of a large majority of parliamentarians, to advance the issue at European level. We will have to spare no effort in the future to succeed in this long-term endeavour. With regard to North Macedonia's accession to NATO, we see several advantages in continuing the process that has been under way for many years, and first of all, it has been said, an advantage for the stability of the region. We have an interest in ensuring that the Balkans continue to move towards stabilization, especially as the countries of the region have made a great deal of efforts in this area. I understand the reluctance expressed about the integration of new countries into an organization that everyone knows needs to be thoroughly reshaped; We have shared our own. However, since a dissolution of the organization is not on the agenda, it seems to us that this process must be maintained. Moreover, it is our duty to consolidate the situation of the countries bordering the European Union, for obvious reasons of internal security. If Europe wants to think of itself as a power – we believe it must – then it must be able to develop ambitious partnerships according to the modalities it decides. In this case, we believe that this neighbourhood policy is necessary. Finally, Northern Macedonia has undertaken profound changes to meet the requirements of NATO membership. The first of these was the pacification of its relations with its neighbours, in particular Greece, which was endorsed by the Prespa Agreement of 17 June 2018. Let us not neglect the importance of this agreement to the Macedonians themselves. They have expressed this on several occasions, and again recently, in the voice of their Prime Minister. Moreover, the agreement is capable of producing concrete benefits for both parties. Although small in size, Northern Macedonia is nevertheless involved in many military operations around the world, linked to the armies of NATO countries. If its staff is reduced and its resources limited, the Government of Northern Macedonia has also clearly indicated its intention to triple its defence budget in a few years. The country seems to be very aware of the security challenges of its regional area and we are confident that its attachment to NATO would enable it to respond more effectively. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u27	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u28	It is paradoxical to see the Republic on its way to advocating zealously for North Macedonia's accession to NATO a few weeks after the President of the Republic slammed the door to that country and Albania by refusing to continue their negotiations on membership of the European Union. However, the time seems to be ripe for a long-standing process to be completed. It should be noted that Macedonia joined the NATO Peace Partnership as early as 1995 and has participated since 1999 in the plan of action for its accession. It seems to me that the authorities of Northern Macedonia are right to present this patience, tenacity and even obstinacy as a guarantee of their anchoring in the Western world and as a symbol of international recognition to which the country aspires. It must also be recognized that after the authoritarian and clientelist era of Nikola Gruevski's government, between 2006 and 2016, the government of the Social Democratic Prime Minister Zoran Zaev made his contribution to regional stability, thanks to the Prespa agreement of 17 June 2018, which ended three decades of argument with Greece on the name of the country, and to the Treaty of Friendship with Bulgaria, after seventy-five years of conflicting relations between Skopje and Sofia. However, the most convincing argument in favour of North Macedonia joining NATO is probably its geographical position, which makes it a strategic issue for European security. As destabilization worsens in Syria and the Middle East, and in the face of the lack of reliability – at least one can say – of Turkey, a member of NATO, the consolidation of the security architecture of the Balkans is necessary. It seems just as paradoxical to see the majority group of the National Assembly zealously advocate for North Macedonia's accession to NATO a few weeks after the President of the Republic considered the Alliance to be in a state of "brain death". One can indeed question the relevance of an alliance that abandoned, in August 2013, to draw the consequences of the crossing of the famous red line fixed at Bashar al-Assad by the US President. We can also question the functioning of an organization in which President Trump can announce, unilaterally and without consultation, the withdrawal of his soldiers to Syria. Finally, it is regrettable that a member country of the Alliance, Turkey, has the freedom to attack with impunity our Kurdish allies, who have fought terrorism with exemplary courage. And I am not even talking about the fact that Turkey acts not only alone, but in disregard of all its commitments to its allies. It seems to listen only to what Russia is telling it, to which, moreover, it has just bought missiles. NATO is definitely ill, and we will not escape a reflection on its future in the coming months and years. However, I am not convinced that the strategy of kicking in the anthill is the most effective from the diplomatic point of view, just a few days from the next NATO summit – but we will soon be discussing it in committee. In any event, we are given the opportunity to question the future of the Atlantic Alliance. Its role and functioning are problematic. At a time when discussions for a European security policy remain uncertain, I would therefore simply ask the question: is NATO a brake on a Europe-Power that would speak with a strong voice and act effectively on the major geopolitical problems and conflicts in the world? It seems that the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, the Head of Diplomacy, Josep Borrell, and the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, all want to increase Europe's ability to weigh alongside the United States, China and Russia. Let us seize this opportunity! [[Applause on the SOC and UDI-Agir benches. – Mrs Liliana Tanguy also applauds]] These various observations, and despite all the questions that remain, the Socialist and related groups will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u29	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u30	Northern Macedonia has always shown good will by engaging militarily with its allies and expressing the desire to conduct peacekeeping operations. Its willingness to join NATO reflects the important work undertaken over the past several years with its neighbours to overcome, in a peaceful and lasting manner, old and persistent disputes. It must be acknowledged that the signing of the agreement on friendship, good-neighbourliness and cooperation with Bulgaria in 2017, the signing of the prespa agreement with Greece in 2018, and the important peacemaking work carried out with Tirana on the Albanian minority present on Macedonian territory are contributing to peace in the region and deserve to be welcomed. Nevertheless, this country of 2 million inhabitants spends only about 100 million euros a year in defence and equips its 8,000 soldiers with obsolete military equipment. It will be difficult to make this material inherited from another era compatible with that used by the majority of NATO forces. The military contribution of Northern Macedonia is therefore to be relativized. Moreover, given the current state of NATO and the violent political crisis it is experiencing, this discussion must be an opportunity for us to reflect not only on the very need to expand the Alliance, but also on its future. Indeed, the diagnosis is unchallenged: NATO's leadership and solidarity are now at stake. Donald Trump's successive disengagements and volt-faces are proof that the eyes of our American allies are no longer focused on Europe, but on the Pacific. While these disengagements accelerated under the current US President, they are not a passenger since the Obama administration had already expressed the will to place Asia at the centre of US foreign policy. The Americans no longer have the will to work with Europeans in the area of continent security, but we must see in this development the opportunity to work together between European countries to establish a real European defence policy or even a joint alliance at European level. Not to mention our relationship with the United States, which remains our allies in many other areas, we must take responsibility and learn to walk independently. For solidarity within the Atlantic Alliance is nothing but a vision of the spirit. This is reflected in the way in which the withdrawal of the United States into Syria and the Turkish military invasion into an area where France has unquestionable interests have been decided unilaterally, even though political consultation and coordination are enshrined in Article 4 of the Treaty. Hence, either the Atlantic Alliance decides to radically redefine its purpose, or it will disappear and lead to the safety of a part of our continent in its fall. In any case, Europe and France do not have time to wait. If we wish to remain masters of our destiny, we have no choice but to speed up the construction of a Europe of defence, with both a leading military industry and a genuine ability to act in the event that our American ally decides to fail us. France must work with a core of countries that are truly aware of the dangers and want to be fully engaged. As for those States that have become accustomed to blocking all progress in European defence on the grounds that only NATO should take precedence, they will quickly realize that the American umbrella may not always be open and that it is in their interest for Europe to be able to ensure its security independently. In any event, the IDU, Action and Independent Group will vote for this bill, hoping that NATO will quickly emerge from the crisis it is going through and that the European states will finally take over their destiny.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u32	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u33	Consideration of the bill authorizing the ratification of North Macedonia's accession to NATO takes place in a context of significant weakening of the Atlantic Alliance. Yet, despite the terrible blows to the contract, despite what has been said, the Alliance has not lost its attractiveness. The European Union and its allies have joint interests in the stabilisation of the Western Balkans, and the accession of Northern Macedonia is an intrinsic part of this process, which began 20 years ago and which has seen significant progress since you recalled, Madam Secretary of State. I would like to detail the direct consequences of accession for the countries of the Western Balkans themselves. It is essential to stress first of all the efforts that have been made by Greece and by Northern Macedonia to reach agreement: it is the will and determination of Northern Macedonia to enter NATO – and the European Union – that have made possible the discussions between these two countries. This perspective enabled them to reach an agreement on the name "North Macedonia", endorsed in the Prespa agreement signed between Greece and what was still then the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, on 17 June 2018 – a historic agreement that ended decades of conflict and litigation. It is my heart to share with you an ancient memory that bears witness to this. As some of you know, I was, until my election as a member of Parliament, a film producer. The first film I made – with English –, Before the Rain, directed by Milcho Manchevski and shot in the future Northern Macedonia, featured the potential conflicts between Macedonians of Yugoslav Macedonia of Albanian and Muslim origin, and Macedonians of Yugoslav Macedonia of Orthodox religion. Awarded by a Golden Lion in Venice and nominated to the Oscars as the best foreign film, he was at the time the subject of endless political negotiations when he entered the name "Republic of Macedonia" in the film's credits. It was 1993. I remind you that at the time of the Yugoslav conflict, the Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was the only territory considered geostrategic by the Americans and that they had sent troops there. I wanted to remind you how long and difficult it was to agree on the name of Northern Macedonia, which affects the identity of the peoples. The consequences of the Prespa agreement were decisive in Greece: in the electoral field, the government suffered political setbacks directly due to this decision and, paradoxically, the Macedonian people also felt that their identity was being wiped out since, while 97% of Macedonians voted in favour of the Prespa agreement, they were only 37% to go to the polls. The benefits of NATO membership can help alleviate resentment on both sides. But it is imperative that the benefits of such sacrifices are directly visible to the people, and it is essential to show them today by taking the first step of ratification. In economic matters, Senator Joëlle Garriaud-Maylam recalls in her report that the entry of North Macedonia into NATO will help to ensure its stability in the eyes of investors and to give young people who emigrate massively the hope of a future at home. In political terms, Northern Macedonia, in addition to reaffirming good-neighbourly relations with Greece and Bulgaria with a view to accession to NATO and the European Union, will benefit from an additional framework of dialogue to ease its relations with other neighbouring countries, in particular with Albania, which is already a member of NATO, with which it still has difficult relations. Indeed, one of the topics that could lead to lively debates or even conflicts in the region is the idea of Greater Albania. Kosovo and Albania seek to promote joint actions in order to reduce the concept of a border between their two countries, with a view, inter alia, to bringing Albanian populations closer together. This process is, of course, very badly perceived by Serbia and also creates serious difficulties with Northern Macedonia and Montenegro. The question of Greater Albania concerns territories in six countries: Albania, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia, Greece, Montenegro and Serbia. After North Macedonia's accession to NATO, three of the six countries concerned will be members of NATO, which will strengthen their peaceful position: they must then respect the articles of the North Atlantic Treaty, in particular Articles 1 and 2, on dispute settlement. Some, in the first place the President of the Republic, are concerned about the ability of the parties to implement Article 5 of the Treaty, which establishes the principle of mutual defence; But what if Turkey was not part of NATO and we refused North Macedonia's membership? The situation could only be worse! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Even if the proposed path is not easy and many unfavorable interests, as we know, are at stake, it would be terrible to play with sorcerer apprentices. Given the significant progress that North Macedonia's accession to NATO would make towards the stabilisation of the Balkans, the Freedom and Territories Group will vote in favour of the ratification bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u34	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u35	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u36	I am speaking as head of the geographical monitoring group of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the Western Balkans region. The work we have carried out over the past few months has been very much concerned with the rapprochement of Northern Macedonia with the European Union as well as with NATO. First of all, I would like to reiterate my congratulations to the rapporteur, with whom we work closely on issues related to the Balkans, and who has presented an excellent report. The Secretary of State recalled that the recent signing of the Prespa Agreement had opened the way for Northern Macedonia to become a thirtieth member of the Alliance. Let me reiterate the compliments of our Assembly to the Macedonian and Greek Executives for this historic agreement. And I welcome the presence in the public gallery of Ambassador Jadranka Chaushevska Dimov of North Macedonia. The recent progress made by Northern Macedonia concerns many other areas: I am thinking of the modernization of its armed forces, the reform of its intelligence sector and the fight against corruption. NATO's progress reports confirm this, as does the European Commission's reports. In view of these findings, it seems essential to recall why North Macedonia's membership of NATO is of interest to all: for us, Europeans, as well as for us, French. This accession, which follows that of other Balkan States, is intended to consolidate the stabilization efforts of the region by the European Union and the Alliance. Northern Macedonia is at the crossroads of the Balkans and is therefore a strategic area for Europe, including France. NATO's enlargement, like that of the European Union, must aim at a strategic goal: in the face of American disengagement and the lack of coordination in the face of Turkish aggression, a debate is needed on European strategic autonomy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In this context, we must encourage the Euro-Atlantic journey of the friendly country of Northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u37	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u38	The IUD, Action and Independent Group will of course vote in favour of the accession of Northern Macedonia, but I wanted to take this opportunity to share with you the fruit of my reflection: we are debating a new accession, but what has become of NATO? The President of the Republic spoke of "cerebral death", and a country that is theoretically our ally, Turkey, continues, despite a bogus ceasefire, to bomb our Kurdish allies, invade their territory and carry out ethnic cleansing. No one is talking about this, of course, in this House – which has, however, unanimously voted on a motion for a resolution on this subject – or in the press. NATO has become an instrument for fighting our own allies: that is what Turkey has done with it. [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] I hope that the Government, which necessarily has the same information as I have as chairman of the Kurdish study group, will inform the National Assembly of what is actually happening in Rojava, which continues to be subjected to Turkish assaults, bombings of Turkish aircraft and therefore NATO aircraft. It seemed to me that it had to be recalled here. This discussion is especially an opportunity for me to question the Government about what is currently happening in Rojava, despite, I repeat, the bogus cease-fire announced to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u40	I talked about it in my speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u41	We've all talked about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u42	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u43	First of all, I thank all the speakers for the quality of our discussions. We have a European debate here, but the scope of the debate is far beyond the borders of the continent. As far as NATO is concerned, a strategic debate is indeed necessary – this is in line with your remarks, Mr Lagarde. Yesterday, therefore, a meeting was held in Brussels of the Foreign Ministers of the NATO Member States. Jean-Yves Le Drian proposed, supported in particular by Heiko Maas and several of our allies, that a strategic reflection be carried out to return to the fundamentals of NATO, to what contributed to its creation in 1949, in order to assign a clearer and more strategic role to the European partners within the Alliance and thus to be able to take stock of our relations with the major global partners and of the objectives we set ourselves vis-à-vis China, Russia and others. It is also a question of prioritizing the elements of this reflection: not to establish a long catalogue of everything that could happen to NATO in the light of everything that is happening in the world, but to define the priorities that we set ourselves. With regard to the particular point you are referring to, Mr Lagarde, you know that France has strongly condemned what happened in northern Syria. A few days ago the coalition against Daesh, activated by the French president and all our allies long before the present government, met; It has had a unanimous voice that does not in any way minimize the humanitarian, security and strategic situation observed. You know the Ministry's commitment to the humanitarian protection of the Kurdish population; We are very involved in this. The President of the Republic, in the interview to which we have all referred, raised very clearly the question of the coherence that NATO must have with regard to such events. As for any information to be communicated to the House, I think you have every opportunity to ask the Ministry, but also all the other public bodies concerned. In any event, I would like to say to you that the reflection on European defence, on Europe's strategic autonomy and on the ability of Europeans to be allies who are neither aligned nor infused, but able to occupy a strategic position, is the ambition of the President of the Republic since the first day; He reaffirmed it in the Sorbonne's speech, and we are acting in this direction with our partners. Jean-Yves Le Drian proposed a way to achieve this, and objectives, on the occasion of the meeting of Foreign Ministers of NATO Member States held yesterday in Brussels. France has the ambition, for the coming months, that the reflection it has opened will lead to the clarification of the objectives, the means and, consequently, the European position concerning the crises we are experiencing, and whose very serious human and humanitarian consequences do not give rise to naïveness or resignation in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u44	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u45	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u46	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u47	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action (No. 2357, 2401).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u48	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, ending with rule 11 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u49	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u50	I would like clarification of paragraph 6 of the article, which states: "For the election of delegates of public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation with or without own taxation and delegates of joint trade unions to the committee of the joint trade union, the choice of the deliberative body may relate to one of its members or to any municipal councillor of a member commune. » Does this mean that a municipality that has to appoint a delegate to sit in the EPCI, the public institution of intercommunal cooperation, or in a mixed union, can appoint an adviser from another municipality? This may be a misinterpretation on my part, but I wanted this to be clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u51	Identical amendments Nos 497 by Mr Patrick Hetzel and 752 by Mr Vincent Thiébaut are being defended. Mr Bruno Questel, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u52	I am in favour of both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u53	Well, that's it! Thank you, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u54	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u55	First of all, to answer President Chassaigne's question, paragraph 6 has a fairly simple meaning, which I believe is in line with the purpose of this bill: anyone can be delegated to a union council when elected. The aim is to put an end to the practice of being able to delegate this role to a resident who is not a member of a municipal council or of the community council. We thus assume that any member of the family of the elected representatives, whether he is a community councillor or not, if he is a municipal councillor of one of the municipalities belonging to the trade union concerned, may sit there. We therefore guarantee the necessary flexibility – any city council member can sit on the union council – while introducing an additional lock. I know that this measure will not be universally popular, because the existing practice could allow some elected officials who decided...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u56	Or lost an election!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u57	... or were actually beaten to continue to preside over a union. I believe, however, that this role should be reserved for those who are part of the family of local elected representatives: it is a red line in my view. With regard to the identical amendments, I am expressing a favourable opinion. Amendment No. 1620 corrected by the Government, which will then be presented, will allow for the necessary coordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u58	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u59	I share the Minister's stated objective of ending what I believe to be an incongruity, namely the designation of any unelected resident to join a mixed union – because that practice existed. On the other hand, the proposed wording seems to me to have a perverse effect. An elected candidate who led a list in a commune and became a municipal councillor – without being a mayor, his list being not a majority – could indeed be elected to the community council and become president of the EPCI...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u60	This has nothing to do with it! This is not the subject of the article!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u61	... having been designated by another municipality. That seems somewhat questionable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u62	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u63	In response to this comment, can you confirm to us, minister, our understanding of the article and the amendments? Is it right for an EPCI to be able to appoint a municipal councillor who is not a community councillor to sit in a joint union of which he is a member?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u64	And he's not from his commune!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u65	Indeed, this is not only what has just been discussed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u66	Could you therefore repeat to us the meaning of the article, which commits us to the amendments on which we are going to vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u67	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u68	We share the Government's stated objective in this article: it was indeed problematic that people who were no longer elected and therefore no longer connected to the municipal council could represent it in bodies closely linked to certain policies of the EPCI. The practical difficulties encountered on the ground actually concern the small communes, whose only representative in the EPCI is the mayor, who, being already strongly asked, does not necessarily wish to sit in all the external bodies whose composition depends on representation within the EPCI – mixed unions, etc. It is therefore of interest to have a municipal councillor in these unions, but often leads to a loosening of the link between the municipality that appointed this representative and the EPCI, in which this councillor does not sit. We have experienced such situations for certain policies – I am thinking, for example, of the management of the aquatic environment entrusted to the river unions. Mixed unions face both quorum problems – people not necessarily mobilized, even if they represent the EPCI – and governance difficulties, with tensions that may arise between unions with a majority of non-EPCI municipal councillors and EPCIs who had defined a strategic line. It is these difficulties that we should try to resolve. Unfortunately, the proposed text cannot, and I fear that it will be complicated to include such measures in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u69	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u70	I would like to clarify the point on which my question relates. In the event that two lists appear in the municipal elections, a person on the beaten list, and who therefore does not represent the municipality in the EPCI, can he be appointed as a Community councillor by another commune member of the intercommunality, and thus possibly become a president of the EPCI?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u71	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u72	It already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u73	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u74	The person may be designated by the EPCI, not by another municipality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u75	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u77	She may then eventually chair the union. But in this case, the EPCI will have appointed him with knowledge of the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u78	It's not just about the unions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u79	The proposed provision seems to me to be of interest. In the local institutional microcosm, a number – sometimes a number – of trade unions, boards of directors, or public institutions of an industrial and commercial nature – EPIC – revolve around own-tax EPCIs. By limiting the scope of persons who can be appointed to these institutions to Community elected representatives alone, a human resources problem would arise. In my community of communes, there are fifty community councillors, two EPICs, each with ten directors and three or four unions, each with about ten union councillors. We cannot always ask the same people, who are non-indemnified elected volunteers, to be present at meetings every evening. We must therefore be able to diversify the people who are involved in the administration of these structures, who are responsible for knowingly doing so for the tax EPCIs themselves. For example, in my own country – sorry to quote a personal example – elected representatives from a political tendency opposed to that of the majority that governs the EPCI have been appointed for the union that manages the collection of waste, but this is done in good intelligence: they are appointed by the EPCI and things are going well, even if the relations are sometimes a little conflicting and tense – at least it has been done with knowledge. In any case, it is the EPCI that has the power of designation: if things go less well, it can always decide to designate someone else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u80	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u81	To extend Mr. Minister's remarks, I would like to point out that the current system allows us to entrust the responsibility of chairing, for example, a trade union to someone who has not received universal municipal suffrage – whether it has not been re-elected or not elected at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u82	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u83	[[Smile]] This beautiful subject, even if it is not very public, corresponds to realities that we can know on the ground as local elected officials. The existing law allows EPCIs with proper taxation to delegate a citizen, whether elected or not, to a trade union council. The text before us provides for a measure of flexibility, which extends this possibility to all trade unions and EPCIs, whether or not they are tax-free. He gave him a measure of restriction: while it was so far possible to appoint any citizen – for example, a former elected member – to these councils, the person concerned would now have to be a municipal councillor of one of the municipalities members of the EPCI. Several conversations have taken place throughout the discussion. Ms Pires Beaune, a municipal councillor may be appointed by the EPCI, even if he is not in the majority by direct universal suffrage which was expressed in the municipal elections. This is in fact already provided for by the current law, which even allowed, so far, to appoint someone who had been beaten and was no longer even a municipal councillor. However, it seems complicated to restrict this mechanism further – should we, for example, rely on the order of the table, or should we provide for a consistent vote in the municipal council? Better maintain the planned drafting. These exchanges are in line with those we have already had at the beginning of the drafting of the text on the representation of elected representatives. Thus, an opposition municipal councillor who would be a community councillor can already be elected president of the EPCI – this is still the question of majority systems: one can be a minority on the municipal council while being a majority on the community council, and vice versa. We will not solve everything by law, but we are starting to install the funnel that will help avoid practices that provide some unions with very broad skills, with low levels of pay. As the text we are discussing is about commitment, we need to ensure some flexibility. In fact, community elected representatives cannot be everywhere – a community councillor must sometimes represent the IBDA in a multitude of organizations. The use of municipal councillors in the field is also a way of giving them consideration and giving them a concrete role. Conversely, appointing someone who does not have a local mandate amounts to somewhat circumventing local representative democracy. It therefore seems to me that the proposed wording represents a good balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u84	Amendment No. 1620, as corrected by the Government, is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u85	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u86	Article 11b deals with the elements to be provided by the CLECT, the local commission for the assessment of transferred charges, i.e. a prospective estimate of the charges which may be transferred by the municipalities to the institution concerned, or by the latter to the municipalities. I will vote for this article, but I find it particularly talkative and somewhat superfluous. Indeed, if we have the experience of a CLEC's work, we know that this is precisely what it does. Unless, therefore, the minister otherwise specifies the views of the drafters of section 11 ter, the latter seems to me harmless, but not particularly useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u87	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 262, 358 and 1136. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 262.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u88	It makes CLECT's financial analysis and prospecting mission automatic prior to any transfer of powers. The aim is to clarify and make more visible the financial impacts of skills transfers, which would significantly assist decision-making.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u89	Amendment No 358 by Mr Jean-Yves Bony is being defended. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 1136.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u90	This amendment, which, like others, includes a recommendation from the Association des mayores rurales de France – AMRF – is intended to strengthen the role of CLECT by making automatic its mission of analysis and financial prospecting prior to any transfer of powers. The Community Council and the municipal councils shall take this report into account in determining the amount of compensation awarded by the establishment to each municipality or, on the contrary, the negative allocation due by a municipality to the establishment. It is well known that the evaluation is the subject of intense debate within the IBDs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u91	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u92	Unfavorable. Indeed, while the mechanism adopted in committee may seem talkative to Mr Viala – which I can hear – the one advocated by the amendments appears to be reducing it. Indeed, it tends to systematize a procedure which, according to the competences referred to, is not always useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u94	The text produced by the committee is fairly balanced. As can be seen from the experience of the important movements of competences that have resulted from the NOTRE law, or the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, the CLECT often intervenes too late: it is when one has decided to transfer a competence, in one sense or the other, that one becomes aware of the amount of the addition – as if, in the restaurant, one chooses his menu blindly to discover only at the end of the lunch or dinner what the price is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u95	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u96	I am astonished, from this point of view, by the system of intercommunal à la carte that the Senate had imagined and that we, all together, have restored to order: even more incredible, we were certain that the addition would be salty, but almost incapable of knowing how much it would amount. It seems to me that we are now putting things back there. In terms of consumption, indicating prices on the menu is a good measure! Also, Mr. Viala, do we need the CLEC to meet upstream? The measure proposed by the text, which is intended to provide for this only when the Community Council or a third of the municipal councillors of the EPCI so request, seems to me, I repeat, balanced and does not exempt the CLEC from the work which it will then have to carry out. In this case, in fact, the mission of the CLECT becomes prospective, in accordance with the request of the AMRF. The measure allows, before deciding definitively on any transfer of powers, to know the impact on compensation allocations and, where appropriate, the CIF – tax integration coefficient – and therefore the DGF – overall operating allocation. The system works well. However, care must be taken to avoid the embolisation of the CLECT. If the system is not to remain virtual and the prices on the menu are to be genuine, it is necessary that all government departments and, where appropriate, CRCs, the regional chambers of accounts, can be very involved in this regard. I therefore propose that we stick to the drafting of the Law Committee, which we had already slightly reviewed. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u97	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u98	Minister, I agree with you: let us not add any more. When I said that the article was a little talkative, I was concerned that it would not open the way for mandatory or quasi-automatic consultation of study offices specializing in community finance, which make their favourite provisions of this nature, which is not desirable – if they have representatives in the galleries of the House, I will make friends! As you have just pointed out, the departments of the DDFiP – the departmental branches of public finance –, the CRC and the EPCI themselves, as well as the elected representatives, are in a position to carry out this work. However, if they are given too many obligations, they will have the reflex to turn to private structures which heavily charge for diagnoses by charging themselves to learn for six months what elected officials have always known and by formulating recommendations which, in fact, are not. That's what I had in my line of fire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u99	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u100	[[Smiles and exclamations]] To respond to the minister's comments, I will say with a smile that we are not quite from the same world: while you are a fan of à la carte meals and go choose between foie gras and lobster, I am, for my part, rather attached to the menu of the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u101	Slate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u102	Maybe it's because of my roots... The device must be automatic and systematic in nature: one must not compose his menu à la carte, as provided for in the article, depending on the requests made by the EPCI or by a third of its members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u103	It all depends on the map!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u104	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u105	In some areas, the conditions may seem exorbitant. One must be aware that, for an EPCI of 128 communes, one third of the members of the municipal councils can represent several hundred people. The mobilization of the CLECT will not always be easy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u106	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u107	This provision incorporates proposal 25 of the rural agenda, which is strongly supported by the Association des maires rurales de France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u108	My amendment, you mean!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u109	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u110	Mr Di Filippo, the text refers to one third of municipal councils, not one third of municipal councillors. Don't worry: the rooms will be big enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u111	Article 11c has been deleted by the committee. I have before me two amendments, Nos 401 and 1137, to restore it. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 401.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u112	The purpose of this amendment is to re-establish this clause in the Senate version. It tends to increase the proportion of seats reserved for mayors in the CISC – the departmental commission for inter-communal cooperation – from 40% to 50%, and at the same time to decrease the share of seats reserved for EPCI representatives from 40% to 30%. This rebalancing of the CISC will make it possible to reaffirm the preponderance of the municipality in intercommunal cooperation. The EPCIs are in fact only a tool at the service of the communes. It is therefore legitimate for mayors' representatives to retain a majority position in CISCs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u113	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 1137.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u114	I will complement my colleague's argument by stressing the importance of better representation of rural mayors, who often feel insufficiently represented, if not crushed, by delegates from larger municipalities. In this regard, I would like to recall the results of a consultation held on the Senate platform open to local elected representatives. According to 60% of respondents, intercommunality marginalized rural communities. In terms of the composition of EPCIs, the majority of local elected officials surveyed – at 52.3% – considered that the rules introduced were unsatisfactory. Hence this amendment, which aims at better representation of rural areas. This issue, which is a reality in rural areas, should not be underestimated. The voice of the small communes is not heard and this situation creates frustration, sometimes even an injury.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u115	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u116	We had this debate yesterday. I will not change my mind, so it is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u117	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u118	I raised the subject at length last night with some substantive arguments, so if you don't mind, I won't do it again this morning. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u119	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u120	I would like to make it clear, to complement the comments of previous speakers, that the measure was adopted in the Senate and then dismissed in the Committee on Laws,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u121	Normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u122	...which would be "normal" according to Bruno Questel, to whom I leave responsibility for his remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u123	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u124	It seems to me that, in general, the text reduces somewhat the role of the CISC. It's not necessarily very serious. Nevertheless, the CISC offers a place for gathering, pedagogy and speaking about intercommunities. It would seem to me very interesting, and essential to relay the information, that these discussions bring together mainly rural mayors. I was already sorry that within the intercommunalities the cities-centres are crushing the rural communes. Making a sign to rural mayors, inviting them to the table to discuss issues that affect them, would not cost the Government much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u126	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u127	We heard what the minister said last night: his position is consistent. It is not a question of opposing elected cities and elected fields, contrary to what is sometimes claimed. Simply speaking, if the French territory, which is quite fragmented, has fewer than 36,000 communes following the creation of the new communes, it must nevertheless remain the basic democratic unit. I would point out that it is considered by our fellow citizens to be the most coherent territory, and that the most respected elected representatives, still today, are the mayors, to whom one can easily identify. If there is no question of calling into question the intercommunality, to which I am very attached, nor of advocating the withdrawal on oneself – I myself have worked to create a new commune in my department, the English Channel – the communes must remain the main gateway to intercommunality. Communes, especially rural ones, must therefore be able to express themselves within the CISC, a rather well-designed structure – both a forum and a conference venue, where they give their opinion and where decisions are taken. Give a little more room to rural communities, it does not cost much – if you allow me the expression – and that does not call into question any basic principles. We therefore call once again on the rural communes, which are the gateway to both democracy and intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u128	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u129	As has been said, this amendment does not eat bread. First of all, the small communes now have fewer representatives than the large communes within the inter-communities – which is understandable – whereas 15 or 20 years ago equality was possible. Secondly, at territorial conferences held under the auspices of the regional president or the regional prefect, intercommunal and departmental representation is limited, but the rural world is not. In addition, the countries, whose meshes once covered the entire territory of my region, also provided a space for dialogue, but they are now, for the most part, part of the communities of agglomeration. However, rural areas need a place of exchange, of breathing, because unfortunately they feel little represented in territorial conferences – yet they are really useful because they deal with the strategic future of a department, a region, a territory. We must hear this request, which I do not think is very binding, far from it. Let us give rural elected representatives, especially mayors, every opportunity to express themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u130	All right, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u131	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u132	I note that everyone speaks as if the discussion had not already taken place last night. I will therefore repeat what I said yesterday, apologising to the Members who were there at the time. First, the bill required us to choose between two options. Either we reform the CISCs, maintaining their mandatory nature, the systematic revision of the schemes every six years, and the overtaking procedure granted to the prefects. Either we pulled out the heavy weapon – and that's the choice we made – by putting an end, in particular, to this procedure of overtaking, thus to the forceful passage of the prefectural body, as well as to the review every six years, which reduced the commissions to an advisory role and the power to authorize memberships or withdrawals of communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u133	On this point, we agree with you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u134	In agreement with all the political groups, we considered that, since we had led to a consensual pattern in some respects, we should not touch on the way in which the CISCs operate. The amendments seem harmless, but, as yesterday's discussion of the respective weight of the departmental councils and the regional councils showed, such a debate can quickly lead to a full questioning. I therefore propose that we stick to the existing rule. Secondly, let us not talk about carabistyles: the composition of the CISCs is decided not by you or by me, but by rules established by colleges in which the associations of elected representatives weigh with all their weight. If some CISCs are composed solely of mayors of very large communes, it may be because the local branch of the AMF – the association of mayors of France – or AMRF did not make an adequate proposal to the prefect concerning the composition order. Mr Gosselin, Mr Chassaigne, agree that it is local practice that will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u135	Beyond the quantitative aspect, there is the qualitative aspect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u136	That's the point! MP Dino Cinieri had tabled an amendment, of which he was the only signatory, aimed at making mandatory, by amending the text after Article 8, a consultation of associations on the composition of the CISCs. Unfortunately, he was unable to support him because he had to be absent last night, but, had he done so, I would have accepted this amendment – we can go back if it is necessary. I repeat, however, that the problem of the composition of the CISCs will not be solved at the level of the law, but at the level of local practice. The prefect does not make his market at random, this composition results from an agreement between the associations of elected representatives – and often, to be honest, between the great local elected representatives. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn, to a large extent satisfied with the decision to remove the mandatory nature of the review every six years – which was the main obstacle. Otherwise, I maintain my unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u137	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 279.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u138	The text reflects a global commitment to intelligently renew the modalities of local cooperation. In this respect, one cannot always go through the EPCI. If there has been a possible flow of competences between the EPCIs, consideration should also be given to promoting infra-Community cooperation. Until recently, this was often reflected in the creation of a SIVU – a single-purpose intercommunal union. This was the case, for example, when two municipalities wanted to share an ICC – a centre of first intervention – not integrated for the sake of consistency or to increase the level of training of volunteer firefighters. The NOTRE law has put an end to this practice, which is understandable because it could lead, in the management of simple competences, to cumbersome procedures, for example the creation of a system of allowances. The amendment aims to improve the functioning of the inter-communal conferences, which administer the convention drawn up by two municipalities wishing to share the exercise of competence. The current law provides for a very strict method of designation for the composition of the intercommunal conference – three elected representatives are chosen by the municipal councils in a secret ballot vote – which can create blockages. In the case of the fire station I mentioned earlier, it would be totally incomprehensible that the mayor, for one reason or another, would not be appointed. Our amendment aims to provide some flexibility in this process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u140	Mr Schellenberger, your first words would have been enough to convince me of the relevance of your amendment, which provides for a smooth, common-sense system. The opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u142	[[Smile]] Indeed, what is well-conceived is clearly stated. The opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u143	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u144	This amendment echoes the idea of amendment CL511 that I tabled in committee: it is intended to add a division to the bill to reflect the Senate's adoption of additional articles in the chapter on the scope of the IBDs unrelated to this topic. It is proposed that articles 11 quinquies and 11 sexies be brought together within the same chapter, entitled "Adapting the perimeter of the entities of the communal bloc to local realities".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u146	As stated yesterday, the concept of a communal bloc does not exist in law. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u147	The Commission has deleted Article 11d. I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1109, 1110, 137 and 1504, which are intended to restore it and which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Sandra Marsaud has the floor in support of Amendment No 1109.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u148	He referred to the case of two communes belonging to a different department wishing to merge. Beyond this case, when considering the draft law to adapt the organisation of the new municipalities to the diversity of the territories, but also during the previous legislatures, comparable situations were mentioned, although few but very real. The current law provides that Parliament has the last word in the absence of a local decision, i.e. the agreement of one of the two departments. However, this provision has never been applied. We therefore propose to improve the role of mayors, which we consider appropriate in the aftermath of the major national debate, and ask that the merger decision no longer be taken by the legislator – since the latter never settles – but by means of a local referendum. I would also like to point out that the absence of a merger blocks communal projects. In my constituency, in Charente, a commune of 280 inhabitants situated on the edge of two departments has for several years wanted to merge with other communes, in vain. When it wants to promote a project in its life pool, neither department takes a decision, nor Parliament, which leads to a blockage. I would therefore like to alert all our colleagues to these situations which are detrimental to the development of the territories which we all wish to see.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u149	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1110.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u150	It is in a way an amendment of withdrawal which provides, rather than a consultation of the inhabitants of the municipalities wishing to merge, a second deliberation of the municipal councils concerned, a qualified majority of two thirds triggering a decree in the Council of State in order to link the commune to the neighbouring department. We have already had this debate during the consideration of the Senate bill to adapt the organisation of new municipalities to the diversity of the territories. At that time, we agreed that it was necessary to decide, since a reference to the legislator was not satisfactory to the extent that the legislator had difficulty in taking responsibility for this type of issue. While the general code of local authorities, as currently drafted, does not define the framework for prior consultation in the event of refusal by any of the departments, if it gives the legislator a hand in the event of disagreement between the departments. This is exactly the problem for Saint-Palais-du-Né. Mrs Duby-Muller, I believe, will defend another amendment for a similar case in her constituency. We must therefore find a solution, and the one we are proposing, whether through Amendment No 1109 or Amendment No 1110, seems reasonable to us: it does not confiscate the power of the small communes, contrary to the rapporteur's amendment No 1504, which gives the departments a kind of veto, whereas one of them, in the case of Saint-Palais-du-Né, has not even sought to enter into a fair negotiation with the mayors, which he did not even receive in his deliberative assembly. The idea is to unlock such situations through a fair solution for the municipalities, under the conditions I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u151	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 137.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u152	Why should the territory of a new municipality necessarily be located in a single department? That is a real question. Local and regional authorities, the example of the EPCIs, can quite well be surmounted by two departments; a priori, therefore, this poses no problem for the budgetary management of policy choices. From an electoral point of view, the problem could only arise for the Senate elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u153	What about the legislatures?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u154	In my constituency, a new municipality is thus on the brink of two electoral districts: there is no difficulty in setting up two polling stations for the cantonal or regional elections. The question remains of the police powers of the mayor, a state official. If the local elected representatives freely decide to create a new commune under the conditions we are talking about, enlightened about the difficulties that can arise when exercising police powers – which would then be the responsibility of two prefects – why prevent them from doing so? Perhaps we can answer this question pragmatically.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u155	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1504 and give the committee's opinion on the other amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u156	A number of colleagues, including the La République en marche group, have regretted the heavyness of a provision which places the responsibility of the legislator to settle all territorial disputes. I therefore propose that this provision be deleted, in order to refer everyone to the freedom conferred on him or her by the principle of the free administration of local authorities and to the competence he or she has, for example, to create a new commune. That said, Mr Schellenberger, a new municipality is a commune, and a municipality cannot be surmounted by two departments. The assignment of the boundaries of the departmental territory, finally, requires the agreement of the departments concerned. The solution proposed by the previous three amendments therefore does not, as it is said, turn. In order for a new municipality to be based on two departments, the two municipal councils of the merging municipalities and the two departments must agree, respecting both collective and individual freedom. I therefore suggest that Amendments Nos 1109, 1110 and 137 be withdrawn; Otherwise, the opinion would be unfavourable. And of course, I am in favour of the amendment that I tabled on my behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u157	[[Smile]] The white knight has spoken!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u158	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u159	I'm going to try to do some pedagogy again. The main principle underlying the creation of the new communes is, Mr Schellenberger, the freedom of municipal councils, within the framework of local representative democracy, to choose their fate; We are not going to repeat the debate on this point. There are also consultation solutions, but I am not going into detail. Secondly, two municipalities located in two different departments may decide to merge into a new municipality; Nor do I propose to prohibit it as such. However, on another principle that you know and on which we remain vigilant, no territorial community can exercise control over another. If, in the case we are talking about, the two municipal councils are competent to change the boundaries of the communal territory – with, of course, an order of the representative of the State – they are not competent to change the boundaries of the departmental territory, which are, on the one hand, the departmental council and, on the other, the legislator, that is, you. In other words, two municipal councils cannot change the boundaries of the department without the consent of its deliberative assembly, which seems to me to be a good practice. Thirdly, is comparison with EPCI admissible? No, because an EPCI is a public institution and not a territorial community; and, according to an intangible principle in force since 1789, and in which I believe, one community contains – if I dare say so – always another, a little like Russian dolls. Quarto, in order to answer your question directly, is the fact that a municipality is riding on two departments a problem? The thing, beyond its complexity – but, rigorously, it would not be the first thing to be not simple – is it feasible? The answer is no. First of all, when it comes to elections, you have forgotten the ones you know best, Mr Schellenberger: the election of deputies. Imagine a new town, riding on the Eure and the Eure-et-Loir...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u160	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u161	[[Smiles and exclamations on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] ... – of which I greet several Members present on your bans – resulting from a merger between Nonancourt and Anet. I would be glad if Mr Marleix would also become a Member of Parliament for the Eure, where he would be received with due regard and friendship...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u162	He'd make an excellent Member of Parliament for the Eure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u163	[[Smile]] Don't insult the future, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u164	More seriously, the constituency of a Member of Parliament for Eure-et-Loir would thus overflow the Eure? The local elected representatives who look at us would probably find this strange. The real problem, however, is not electoral: it concerns the exercise of regal power. If a disorder of public order occurs in the new commune, should we refer to the old communal boundaries to know which of the two prefects of department is competent? Frankly, this does not seem reasonable, at a time when simplicity is advocated and the prefectural body is entrusted with important responsibilities. The same question arises for parquet floors: a parquet floor would be competent on the side of odd numbers on the street, and another on the side of even numbers? In short, the only solution is that the whole territory of a municipality is located in a single department. Some parliamentarians, as I know, have shown innovation in suggesting that it is the seat of the town hall that determines the affiliation department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u165	It would make no sense, it would be gravissim! You're right, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u166	This is tantamount to a lack of agreement to decide, after deliberation, to be attached to one department rather than another. On the other hand, from which department would the municipalities eligible for the DETR, the provision of equipment from the rural territories, and the DSIL, the allocation of support for local investment? Should we imagine a pro rata with a proportional distribution key?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u167	The municipalities will choose their affiliation department!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u168	I'm sorry, but the whole problem, in the cases of blockage we're talking about, is precisely that they can't choose!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u169	Another reason: at one point, we have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u170	That's what I'm proposing: at one point, you have to know how to decide, otherwise you get into endless difficulties and you do anything. But I will not let anything do on such subjects, because it would damage the communal bloc and the departmental bloc; Quite frankly, that would not be glorious. I therefore propose, first of all, that it remains possible to create new communes on the basis of two departments. Secondly, when the two departmental councils concerned agree – which, let us specify, corresponds to the majority of the cases observed so far – the municipal and departmental boundaries are changed by law, the prefect issuing a decree to that effect. But, in the event of disagreement on this point between the councillors of the two departments – as between the two municipal councils when it comes to changing the communal territory, moreover – there is no reason to disregard the opinion of the councillors of either department, since representative democracy does not admit any hierarchy: the creation of the new commune is then not possible, unfortunately. There is, I believe, no other solution, whatever the innovation envisaged. The idea remains to let parliamentarians decide. Members of such a department will therefore support the creation of the new commune, when those of such another will not agree. Indeed, on Mrs Gatel's proposal for a law on new communes, the divisions were not political but geographical. Mr Schellenberger is omniscient, I know that, but how can a Member of Parliament for the Lower Rhine know whether a municipality is more likely to switch to the Eure or Eure-et-Loir side? Imagine, too, that since the Assembly had adopted a provision, the Senate, in the Joint Joint Committee, defended a different position. How do we then play the fate of the commune? To the dice or to the pile or to the face?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u171	It is the House that has the last word!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u172	What you're saying doesn't correspond to reality, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u173	Yes, sir: I merely recall the law in force and the functioning of our institutions; Let's not tell stories. Last argument, in order to make clubs and carpets of bombs – if you pass the phrases – your assembly is not seized of a territorial law every week! To put it plainly, we are talking here about only two cases, which concern, on the one hand, Savoie and Haute-Savoie, and, on the other, Charente and Charente-Maritime. Since we are debating a territorial bill, section 45 does not stand in the way of your amendments. But once decided, starting next April – the beginning of a new cycle in this field – the creation of other new communes, will it be necessary to wait for the next territorial text to solve the problems that may arise here or there? I am an activist of the new communes, provided that the municipal councils concerned express the will – Mr Corbière, you will pass the message to Mrs Taurine, to whom I did not reply on this point last night – without the authoritarian intervention of the representatives of the State; But since the two departmental councils do not agree, I propose to leave the boundaries of the departmental and communal territories as they stand. Let us avoid any mutant legal object, which would also harm the general interest of the inhabitants of the communes, where it is difficult to see how public order would be ensured, exercised judicial authority or even calculated the equalizations you vote for the communal finances. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on Amendments Nos 1109, 1110 and 137, and favourable on Amendment No 1504.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u174	Close the ban!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u175	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u176	I can hear your arguments, minister, but we are only talking about a few cases here. Two communes, located respectively in my department, the Eure-et-Loir, and the Loir-et-Cher – of which my friend Pascal Brindeau, who sits behind me, is a member – wanted to merge. Since the Loir-et-Cher does not have a school, the children are in fact enrolled in the Eure-et-Loir school. The municipal councils agreed but the departmental councils did not agree; Hence a blockage which penalises especially the inhabitants. Perhaps the use of a local referendum would be interesting in these exceptional cases. In any event, two members of Parliament can very well be elected from the same new commune: this is my case, as a commune in my constituency has merged with the commune in another electoral district.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u177	But in the same department!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u178	[[Mr Raphaël Gérard and Mrs Sandra Marsaud applaud]] Of course, but my colleague and I both find ourselves in the same demonstrations: things are going very well, the situation does not seem to me to be an absolute tragedy, nor would it be, I believe, if the new commune were on the brink of two departments. If a new municipality results from the merger of two communes located in different departments, then, of course, the boundaries of the departmental territories must be changed. And the best interest of any department, in my opinion, is to take into account the wishes of the communes it contains. When the municipal councils give their approval, it is therefore a shame not to go to the end of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u179	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u180	In my constituency, there are 85% new municipalities, one of which is based on two departments. Last summer, we worked on the text on the new communes. To create such communes, we must remember, volunteering is the rule, because it is not so easy for communes – whether they are two or ten – to associate. Before the creation in my constituency of the new commune on the border of two departments, they agreed to change their respective territories, but the thing is not so simple. Moreover, between the legislatures and the departments, the electoral calendar is not the same, so it is very difficult to overcome a disagreement between two departments. This explains why, each time, we have come to terms with such a disagreement, rejecting the solution to another territorial text. In the absence of volunteering, in any case, it is very difficult to get involved in territorial projects. It is therefore a problem to send a decision to the Assembly which concerns only a few communes, because national representation does not have to deal with the life of the communes on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u181	I share this view: consensus is needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u182	Are your amendments still in place, Mr Gérard?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u183	Yes, because they seem important to me in a text that aims to defend rural life and restore decision-making power to the mayors. Let's not forget the episode we had last year around the roundabouts...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u184	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u185	...and the inhabitants of rural areas, who feel constantly flouted in their ability to make decisions. I maintain that the wording of Amendment No 1504 is terrible, as it confirms the fact that the departments have placed rural communes under the supervision of the authorities. If we were to go so far as to adopt this amendment, which I do not wish to do, you should at least, Mr Minister, sub-amend it in order for a decree to provide for the modalities of genuine consultation prior to the decision of the departments. In Charente-Maritime, for example, such a discussion could not take place and the decision will be binding on the inhabitants of Saint-Palais-sur-Mer and, consequently, on those of Archiac.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u186	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u187	I'll be very brief. I am surprised, however, that such amendments can be defended; Even if they are of interest to shed light on some local problems, the measure they contain cannot be included in the legislation. I would like to thank the Minister for demonstrating as well the absurdity that a new commune would represent in two departments. This is not an option, it is a matter of the regularity of our institutions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] What I find very relevant, on the other hand, is to remove the intervention of the legislator. The modification of the boundary of a department, it seems, will no longer be decided by ministerial decree but by prefectural decree. We are on the right track: the first thing to do at the time of the creation of a new commune on the brink of two departments is to meet with the presidents of the two departmental councils to discuss it with them. I admit it's not easy, but we can convince them. The members of the Socialist and Related Group, in any case, therefore strongly oppose the first three amendments and support the one advocated by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u188	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u189	I too am in favour of the rapporteur's amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u190	Mr Bruno Questel's amendment No 761 is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u191	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 702, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 11e.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u192	We ask that, two months before the municipal budget is examined, a report be submitted setting out the state of the environment of sources of greenhouse gas emissions, pollution, waste generation, the state of biodiversity, etc. The idea is simple: you have understood it, we hope that, through the ecological planning of local policies, we will be engaged without waiting for the ecological bifurcation which we believe is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u194	This is a good proposal but the problem is its applicability in all the municipalities of France and Navarre, I think Arnaud Viala will agree with me. It would require the call to many study offices, which would be very costly for the municipalities, even if these missions, you are right, are essential. In view of the difficulty in applying such a measure, I would ask for the amendment to be withdrawn; Or I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u196	[[Mr. Alexis Corbière challenged]] In my view, this is an appeal amendment: indeed mobility is a decentralised competence – and we have made further progress in this area recently – water distribution, sanitation and waste management have also been decentralised powers for a very long time. In a community council, in fact, most of the subjects discussed relate to ecology: the nature of the transferred competences actually implies a debate on ecology. Let's add: that the PCAET – territorial climate-air-energy plans – are mandatory and prescriptive documents; that SCOTs – territorial coherence schemes – require a major debate on ecology; that the PLUI – local inter-municipal planning plans – require the upstream design of a PADD, or development and sustainable development project; We cannot launch PLH – a local habitat program – without assessing its ecological footprint. Therefore, if we look at it properly, your amendment is largely satisfied in fact and even in law. You can do a bit of politics and show me that you don't, but if you stay serious and pragmatic, he is, I repeat, satisfied. I therefore ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u197	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u198	You probably have better control of certain points than I do, Minister, and, with regard to the decentralization of many competences, you are right. From there, however, to consider that the amendment is satisfactory and that on each of the points you have mentioned there is a visibility regarding the emission of greenhouse gases and its ecological consequences, you go too far. I accept that my amendment is similar to an appeal amendment. However, a national agency should be able to support the municipalities that want, without any additional resources, this visibility so that the right decisions can be taken. I maintain my amendment so that it can be said, from a political point of view, that the discussion on the subject will have taken place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u199	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u200	Article 11 septies, although it may seem anecdotal to some, does, however, reflect the general meaning of the text. It provides that, in municipalities of less than 100 inhabitants, the municipal council shall be deemed to be complete if it has at least five members; For municipalities of 100 to 499 inhabitants, this figure increases from 11 to 9 members. This provision has a virtue: over time, wear and tear, the mobilization required of elected officials, it may happen that municipal councils are less upholstered than they were just after their election. The aim here is therefore to simplify their operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u201	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u202	I will speak briefly, Minister, to thank you for this flexibility provision, which is much more consistent with our vision than some of our proposals for a definitive reduction in the number of municipal councillors. On the other hand, without wishing to go back to a debate which was very busy last night, I would like to ask again the following question: once the proportional ballot is in force in the communes of less than 1000 inhabitants, how will this system apply to the entire lists?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u203	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1566 and 379, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 1566.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u204	I have included in this amendment an idea of rural mayors, for the sake of evaluation. However, I agree with the position of the Government. If we vote on this bill, rural mayors will no longer be able to tell us: we cannot find municipal councillors, we find it difficult to find committed people. One might consider this an evaluation amendment: if, in a few years' time, rural mayors no longer complain because conditions have been created for the engagement of citizens in the service of their communes, then we will have this success for the Government and for our work as legislators. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u205	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 379.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u206	We propose to create a new stratum, that of the communes of 500 to 999 inhabitants, which would have thirteen municipal councillors; the municipalities of 1000 to 1499 inhabitants would have 15 of them. This amendment is in line with your proposal. Indeed, the difficulty experienced in municipalities with less than 100 inhabitants is also felt in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. Moreover, our proposal promotes pluralism: if we adopt it, it will be easier to propose two competing lists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u207	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u208	The minister mentioned it last night and this morning in a very clear way: reducing the number of elected officials would be a very bad sign given to our fellow citizens. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u210	It is unfavourable, on this one and on those who will follow – unless they are withdrawn – for several reasons. First, reducing the number of elected officials would be the beginning of the beginning of the decline in the number of rural communes. I'm not saying that's what you want, Mrs. Untermaier,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u211	The text already provides for a reduction in the number of municipal councillors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u212	[[Claims on several SOC and FI panels]] No, and that is the point of our proposal: we do not reduce the number of elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u213	I understood, however, that you wanted to reduce the number of Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u214	Please continue your demonstration, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u215	Yes, Madam President. It is only a matter of allowing a municipal council to be incomplete, which means that a term of office can be completed without the number of municipal councillors being sufficient to work, but the number of elected members can be found in the next term of office. While if you decide to reduce the number of municipal elected officials, it's irreversible. Then, such a measure would have many perverse effects: if you reduce the number of elected officials, you will reduce the number of deputies, proportional to the number of municipal councillors. Once again, if we want to rehabilitate the place of the commune, I would prefer that we adopt the provisions that we propose, which will reenact the commitment. I therefore prefer that we take measures of flexibility: today, when a city council is not complete, it is faced with a great deal of legal, political and administrative hassles, if only for the election of the mayor and his deputies; This text will help to circumvent and overcome these difficulties. Finally, the question of incompleteness arises only for the communes whose council is elected according to the rule of panachage, not for those whose council is elected by proportional ballot. Once you have a full proportional list, no posts will then be vacant. In 2020, the municipal councils of municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants will be elected according to the rule of panaching and, in 2026, the councils of municipalities with less than 500 inhabitants will be elected according to what we voted last night. I will not take the floor again on the following amendments, but, I repeat, I am against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u216	President Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u217	I will go along the same lines as the rapporteur and the minister, however, with a nuance. I am indeed quite dubious about the content of the article. In practice, there is a risk of incomplete municipal councils in municipalities with less than 100 inhabitants and those with less than 500 inhabitants. The result, therefore, will not be so far away from that of the amendment tabled by our Socialist colleagues. But I am rather in favour of maintaining the number of elected officials. This requires voluntarism, greater work at the time of the composition of the lists, to go to the inhabitants, the citizens, family per family, of course; But for a community to function well, it must be as impregnated in the population, as widely as possible, and the more elected, the better the impregnation is. I would like to take this opportunity to observe that your speech is different at the national level for which you want to reduce the number of Members, which will have a negative effect from a democratic point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u218	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u219	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u220	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u221	I am quite in disagreement with your argument, minister, that if the number of municipal councillors per population stratum were to be reduced, there would be a very negative sign, which, in your view, would be the beginning of the beginning of the end of the small rural communes. What is the reality of rural elected representatives since the beginning of the current term? Some have had difficulties in compiling a complete list. Of course, the phenomenon is not new and can always be addressed. But what is increasingly evident is that, in the small communes of 50 or 100 inhabitants, all municipal work is based on the mayor and his deputies, plus possibly one or two municipal councillors to whom one manages to give responsibilities; the other elected representatives, around the council table, feel relatively uninterested in the daily affairs of the commune and, for many of them, end up resigning during the term of office, the councils becoming more and more incomplete over time. This situation must be taken into account, although consideration of this text may not be the right opportunity to do so, I agree with you on this point. It is worth hearing what the Association des mayores rurales de France says about this: in rural communes, it will be increasingly difficult to have a full municipal council for a full term of office. And I don't think proportional list voting is the solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u222	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u223	I do not want to lengthen the debate unnecessarily, but I want to clarify one point, so as to avoid any confusion as to the meaning of my amendment. The Socialist and related group has always welcomed the fact that there are 500,000 local elected representatives in France. The amendment is not intended to reduce the number of municipal councillors, but to restore a proportion of the number of councillors to the population in a given stratum. We consider that the difference between the communes of 500 inhabitants and those of 1500 inhabitants is such, particularly in terms of human resources, that the number of municipal councillors in the communes of 500 to 1000 inhabitants should be reduced by two. I agree with Mr Chassaigne: it is not we who want to reduce the number of elected officials, whether local or national.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u224	For the national elected officials, it's us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u225	That's not the point...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u226	Parliamentarians have a role to play in the territories. It is essential to make a speech of truth. Beyond that, I agree with Mr.Brindeau: there is a real problem at the municipal council level. Rural municipalities with few inhabitants need to think about a slightly different way of involving the population. In a small commune, a municipal council cannot function in the same way as in a commune of 2500 inhabitants. The concept of direct democracy and of the association of the population, as you introduced in Article 1, seems to me to be very relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u227	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 16, 39, 977 and 1318. Amendment No 16 by Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine is being defended. Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor in support of Amendment No 39.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u228	It aims to extend to municipalities of less than 1500 inhabitants the derogation under which the municipal council is considered to be complete, even if it is not composed of the number of municipal councillors fixed in accordance with the table of article L. 2121-2 of the CGC – the general code of territorial authorities – provided that at least nine municipal councillors were elected at the general renewal of the municipal council or at a supplementary election.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u229	Amendment No 977 by Mr Pierre Morel - A- L'Hussier is being defended. I call Mr Rebeyrotte to support Amendment No. 1318.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u230	It is the same: it aims to extend to municipalities of less than 1500 inhabitants the derogation under which the municipal council is considered to be complete, since nine municipal councillors are in a position to sit. By-elections, sometimes involving the renewal of one or two municipal councillors, do not attract much enthusiasm from voters. I will not go so far as to say that they represent a constraint, but they do not constitute a great moment of local democracy. The measure I am proposing would help to make things more fluid.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u231	What is the opinion of the committee on these four identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u232	Mr Rebeyrotte, whatever the number of candidates or seats to be filled, elections are always a great democratic moment. I express an unfavorable opinion on all of these amendments, as well as on the following amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u234	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u235	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u236	I also support the position of the rapporteur and the minister, because this would not be in the right direction. Moreover, yesterday, when I proposed that incomplete lists could be presented in a proportional ballot, everyone felt that it was impossible and unconstitutional. For your part, you offer incomplete municipal councils. Is this more in line with the Constitution? I'm not sure. The rules in force should remain in force. Such adaptations would lead to a form of in-between, which is never desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u237	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u238	I would like to make a few clarifications on what has just been said. First, why incomplete municipal councils and not incomplete lists? The goal is to ensure that the municipal council is complete when the municipal elections were held. We have planned two substitutes to replace members of the municipal council, so that it is not always necessary to hold new elections in case of resignation or problem. In rural communes, it is difficult to find candidates, as we know, but it is also difficult to mobilize voters. I have in mind specific cases where by-elections had to be held several consecutive Sundays because the quorum was not reached. Hence this provision relating to the incompletion of the municipal council. This debate does not alter our desire to reduce the number of national elected officials. It may be considered too high, for various reasons, in terms of powers and means, but also in terms of history. In 1986, 491 deputies were elected by uninominal vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u239	How many people were there then?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u240	[[Smile]] ... to 577 deputies elected by the proportional. Then, when we returned to the uninominal election, we remained at 577 deputies. So we can ask ourselves questions. However, this point is the subject not of this text, but of the constitutional revision, which we shall one day consider, I hope...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u241	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u242	If we accept incomplete municipal councils for certain population strata, I do not see why the threshold for the measure could not be raised. What is at stake is the principle, not the strata concerned. If it is considered that the municipal council must be in any case complete for the important acts of municipal life, in particular the elections, there must be no possible derogation. On the other hand, since a derogation is foreseen, why not extend it to the municipalities of the stratum from 500 to 1500 inhabitants, who are also familiar with the situations in question?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u243	That would open Pandora's box!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u244	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u245	This debate shows that the reduction to 500 inhabitants of the threshold at which the municipal elections take place on a proportional basis, which you adopted yesterday, was hastened.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u246	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u247	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u248	It aims to enable a municipality to be placed under the supervision of the sub-prefect when it is found, during the three months preceding a general renewal, that the municipal council has lost more than half of its members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u250	I understand your argument, but we cannot go back to the relaxation provided for in Article 11h, which we shall consider at a later stage. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u251	I call Mr Baudu to support Amendment No. 1520.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u252	It aims to bring an end to the difficulties experienced by certain communes of less than 1000 inhabitants when massive resignations of members of the municipal council take place. When these resignations affect more than half of the municipal council, the mayor may be in a minority position after the completion of the supplementary elections. In such a case, in the absence of the mayor's resignation, resignations and supplementary elections can be carried out without solving the difficulties of origin, which then leads to a chronic dysfunction of communal management, particularly problematic when this occurs at the beginning of the term of office. Under current law, the only outcome is a decision to revoke the mayor or to dissolve the municipal council, which is made in Council of Ministers. We propose to introduce into the electoral code a provision providing for the re-election of the mayor and deputies after each by-election concerning more than half of the members of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u253	It would be a source of permanent instability!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u254	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u255	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn, for the reasons I mentioned earlier: let us make sure that, in order to resolve isolated cases, a mechanism is not created which could destabilise the mayors during their term of office.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u256	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u258	I must confess that I have wondered about this amendment. You put forward the argument of democracy, and we can hear it. Nevertheless, mayors are not accountable to the municipal council as the Government is to the National Assembly – the communes operate from the beginning or almost according to this principle, in accordance with the spirit of the general code of local authorities. The amendment would indeed settle the case you are referring to, but would put all mayors at the mercy of by-elections caused by a cluster of resignations from the city council.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u259	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u260	It aims to deal with the case where more than half of its members resign!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u261	This proportion can be quickly reached, more so if the city council has seven members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u262	Especially with a proportional list vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u263	It is easy to imagine that four municipal councillors disagree in a somewhat difficult budget debate or in a discussion of urban planning; If they decide to resign, this will result in a by-election and the mayor's resignation. However, I am embarrassed because your reasoning, Mr Baudu, is struck by common sense: if the councillors elected in the partial election are all opponents of the mayor, there is a democratic problem. At the same time, you are all well placed to know that unlike general elections, by-elections do not always change the balance: if a number of Members resign and parliamentary by-elections are organised – let us exclude cases in which the Member is replaced by his deputy – this may change the composition of political groups, but this will not lead to the adoption of a motion of censure or a vote of distrust after a general political speech. Of course, comparison is not right, but you understand what I mean. This amendment may seem attractive at first glance, but it seems to me that it would change the very economy of the CGC with regard to the functioning of the municipal council. I came to this conclusion, although it did not seem obvious to me at first because I found the device interesting. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u264	Yes, it would be dangerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u265	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u266	To go in the same direction as you, Minister, I would point out that there is also a democratic problem: at the time of the general elections, the candidate at the top of the list is the candidate who is running for mayor; It is he that the people elect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u267	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u268	If, during the term of office, a few municipal councillors – for example, four members of a seven-member city council – can take power by taking down the mayor whom the public wanted but whose people no longer wanted, this will pose a real problem from the point of view of democracy. Or else, we would have to hold new general elections, so that the people can say who they want as mayor. Formally, it is the municipal council that elects the mayor, but, in reality, it is the population that informs the municipal councillors of the person they wish to see in this position. With this amendment, a few individuals in the city council could ignore what the population thinks, put the mayor out and replace him with someone else.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u269	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u270	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u271	In my view, this is a common sense amendment, which is intended to deal with only a limited number of specific situations. I quote a very concrete one, which I have lived in my constituency. A mayor was completely absent for more than a year; He did not participate in municipal management, but did not resign. This led to the resignation of all members of the city council except him. A by-election was held. Almost no one agreed that he should remain mayor, but he remained so, de facto.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u272	The solution is the dissolution of the city council!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u273	If the entire municipal council disagrees with the mayor but cannot challenge him during his term of office – for valid reasons, which we can discuss – this also poses, in my view, a democratic problem. I understand that these are very specific situations and that the measure can lead to certain risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u274	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to conclude the debate on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u275	To conclude, I don't know, but at least to participate. I am opposed to Mr Pupponi's conception, which is in line with a form of presidentialization of the mayor. I don't agree. The mayor is elected by the municipal council, by the municipal team. I am not in favour of any consequences for the mayor if he is a minority in his city council. The mayor cannot be alone against all the others, knowing that they too were elected by the population, even if the candidacy of all is to some extent embodied by the top of the list!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u276	You may want revocative referendums!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u277	This debate is fundamental. We are gradually changing the nature of municipal elections and municipal council, which are old realities. We are moving towards an over-personalization of the mayor's mandate, with the other elected members being reduced to a second role. I do not agree with this development, because it often leads – we are witnessing – to situations of authoritarianism. Why are people less and less inclined to appear on lists? Because it's often quite a mess, let's admit it! To be an assistant is often to submit to the mayor's decisions, having little power; It's not very motivating!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u278	Then we need a direct vote, not a list vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u279	It is therefore necessary to re-establish collegiality and democracy in the municipal council, which is a place of collective deliberation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u280	You should practice this, in La France insoumise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u281	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I would like to thank a colleague: the one who comes regularly to tell me that we should practice this in La France insoumée. Thank you, dear colleague, for your intelligence. I am pleased to have spoken because, in each of my statements, you shine with your particularly relevant words, I assure you. Why don't you go under a bell?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u282	Thank you for this tribute!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u283	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u284	Mr Corbière, we can assume with serenity that we do not agree on this point. For my part, I consider that mayors need to have their decision-making powers protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u285	The other councillors are elected too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u286	Such a measure would require a review of the entire CTGC. The mayor has a lot of power of his own; I am not in favour of opening the way for minorities to block him from moving forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u287	That would be more democratic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u288	I say it for being mayor, the beauty of this mandate also lies in the ability it offers to decide. In any case, there are not many intermediaries between the mayor and the population: when a mayor starts to do nonsense, believe me, he is quickly caught up in his cord of reminder, that is his direct relationship, without intermediary, with the population and the citizens. Mr Brindeau, in response to your intervention on a particular case, I would like to point out that the procedures for the suspension and dismissal of mayors exist. We still need to be seized of this, including by parliamentarians. If they seize the Minister of the Interior and I, since we have common jurisdiction in this matter, a procedure for suspending or dismissing the mayor, without going through the dissolution of the municipal council, we obviously initiate an investigation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u289	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u290	We can't do this! He's the prefect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u291	A parliamentarian may also bring the situation to the attention of the Prefect. A mayor who would completely disappear from the circulation, forgive me the expression, would give a clear signal that an adversarial revocation procedure can enter into investigation. Such a procedure has recently been initiated in a very particular case, has it not Mr Schellenberger?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u292	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u293	The rapporteur, Mr Bruno Questel, has the floor to support Amendment No. 766.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u294	In the examination tunnel under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the committee adopted Mr Marleix's amendment, which I therefore wanted to present, although I fully agree with the minister's explanation of the impossibility of acknowledgment that the resignation of a number of municipal councillors could call into question the legitimacy of the elected mayor. However, a solution must be found. I would therefore ask the Minister to discuss with Mr Marleix to what extent, even though his amendment had been adopted in committee...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u295	He just said the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u296	No, the minister just said that we had to deal with this. This issue needs to be addressed by the Government and parliamentarians who have been able to deal with such situations in their constituencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u298	I maintain my unfavorable opinion on this subject, for the reasons I have previously indicated. Perhaps it will be necessary to leave it to the Joint Joint Committee to re-establish this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u299	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u300	I thank the rapporteur for introducing this article. Indeed, without his intervention, it would not have been considered despite the committee's favourable opinion during the Article 88 examination. The amendment tends to take into account the opposite of the one we were looking at earlier. We have referred to the situation of a municipal opposition which, on a voluntary basis, in particular on occasion of a resignation linked to a cumulation of mandates – because a new rule that we must integrate into the functioning of local democracy – was to organize a local political game. In the case before us, on the contrary, resignations would have accumulated for a long time and the mayor, even though he is perhaps alone in his city council, manages the affairs of the commune – in isolation, therefore. In municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, unlike the procedure you mentioned earlier for municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants, there is no way to call local elections. A real democratic problem therefore arises. So much the previous case invited us to deal with a political problem – I did not intervene at this time – that is, a local will to make a democratic debate exist at a time when it may be considered inappropriate, as much in it there is no more local democracy and a rule must be found to revive it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u301	Mr Stéphane Baudu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u302	The form of these two amendments is different, but the spirit is the same. They aim to keep working when a large number of resignations question the role of the mayor, who is isolated in his commune. I agree to have a debate on taking into account the size of the communes – more or less than 1000 inhabitants. I have heard the Minister's proposal on the possibility of working again on this subject in the Joint Joint Committee, in order to unblock situations which too often require us in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u304	The Commission has deleted Article 11g. I have before me three amendments, Nos 490, 402 and 868, aimed at restoring it, which can be discussed together. Amendments Nos 402 and 868 are identical. I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 490.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u305	It is intended to restore section 11g of the Senate, according to which the election of the mayor may take place when a municipal council is incomplete, with a limit of incompleteness of 10%. The Law Commission has removed this section, but we consider its restoration to be useful. I would add that we have just decided that the municipal councils could be incomplete, which, in my view, makes this article indispensable for coordination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u306	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 402.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u307	I repeat what Mr Viala said: this is a simplification amendment, which is expected by the local mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u308	Amendment No 868 by Mr Raphaël Schellenberger is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u309	I will not repeat what has already been said: unfavorable opinions on the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u311	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u312	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u313	Can you tell us, minister, how the mayor's election can take place in the municipal councils that were rendered incomplete by the provision that we unanimously voted three articles above?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u314	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u315	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the proceedings in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, of which I am not a member. Fortunately, I was not in session when the articles on water and sanitation were voted on, which made it easier for the exchanges to flow. I want to present an act of contrition: not being a member of the Law Committee, I have probably insufficiently prepared the examination of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u316	You are forgiven, Mr Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u317	In particular, it suffers from a deficiency, which I should have identified in the debates in the law committee, or which others should have pointed out: participatory democracy is very insufficiently taken into account – you will answer me, but I think the bill does not contain anything fundamental about its development. In the smaller municipalities, the rural municipalities within the meaning of INSEE – with fewer than 2,000 inhabitants and located outside an urban area – we could send signals to encourage better citizen participation. This is the subject of amendments which I tabled and which we will discuss at a later stage, but which I unfortunately tabled for consideration at the sitting and not in the Committee on Laws, where the exchange would probably have been more enriching than it will be here. I really call your attention to this point: we must give signals and put in place tools to better take into account the voice of the citizen. The aim is to ensure that the divisions that may exist, between new and old populations, between different opinions, are better understood.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u318	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u319	Like President Chassaigne, I want to stress that participatory democracy is the great absence of this text. I had misguidedly thought that I had tabled an amendment to Article 11 septies, which was placed after Article 31a without knowing why – as I will be explained – the aim was to give citizens the floor more easily during the municipal council: that would be the minimum. Today it is very codified and complicated, but we could be much bolder. The Group of the European People's Party has tabled several amendments on this subject, on local referendums called for by citizens, so that the population can be consulted on an ongoing basis. Once again, I find my dear colleagues that your conception of the city council is extremely centralized, around the personality of the mayor, who, in my opinion, holds too much power in the collective of the city council. On the other hand, you offer very few ideas so that the citizen can intervene and be heard in the city council, so that democracy is constantly a living entity, and not just an election meeting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u320	You should do it at La France insoumise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u321	Dear colleague, I now hand over to you the medal of the smartest Member of Parliament of the Republic on the march!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u322	It's another one this time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u323	I know! There's a contest! I'll give him the golden sausage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u324	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u325	First of all, this bill is an opportunity to express our sympathy for the mayors gathered at the porte de Versailles congress, as well as for all those who support them: municipal councillors, deputies, collaborators. In rural areas in particular, they are really the forces of the Republic, on which we can rely, and that is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u326	They're infantrymen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u327	Article 11h concerns an issue which should be the subject of broad consensus. The municipal council must be in full for the mayor's election, except for the first election, on the evening of the general renewal. However, communal life is not a long, quiet river: sometimes, after four or five years of office, especially in small communes, where changes in career, life and even opinion may have caused some resignations. However, it is necessary to bring together the municipal council for the election of the new mayor, if the previous one has decided to pass the hand; If it is incomplete, all missing persons must be renewed. It seems to us that this procedure is normal for the first four years, but not when you are less than a year from the municipal elections. In my constituency, as in all others, we are just a few months away from the renewal of municipal councils;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u328	It's all over the same day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u329	...and a further election will take place in December in a commune to be able to proceed with the election of the mayor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u330	Thank you for closing, Mr. Sermier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u331	[[Raphaël Schellenberger applauds]] I think it is not very serious to call a by-election in December when the general elections are to be held in March.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u332	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u333	I would like to respond to the statements made by Mr Chassaigne and Mr Corbière concerning the association of the people with the functioning of communes and intercommunalities. Article 1 concerns the EPCI; We amended it in committee and then in session in such a way that it specifically mentions "the association of the population in the design, implementation or evaluation of the policies of the establishment" public, during the first debate of the EPCI after a general renewal of the municipal councils. On the question of the communes themselves, Mr Corbière, I urge you to consult Amendment No 243 to Article 23, tabled by Mrs Guerel, which tends to involve the population in all communal matters, according to a fairly well-calibrated system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u334	Very insufficient!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u335	I have before me two amendments, Nos 732 and 1140, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 732.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u336	In the second paragraph of Article L. 1413-1 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, we propose to add, after the word "local", the words "as well as any citizen who has expressed his will to participate", and, after the word "proposal", the words "of one of its members, invite to participate in its work, with a consultative voice, any person whose hearing he considers useful and request the transmission of documents which he considers necessary". Our aim is to restore communal sovereignty, thanks to a better association of citizens with the decisions of the commune.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u337	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 1140.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u338	This is the first in a series of three amendments aimed at developing what can be called a participatory or active democracy. I propose to set up, in rural communes, an advisory commission on services to the local public. Evolution is important ideologically: I am talking about service to the public, not just public service. It seems to me essential to involve the population, whether there is consultation, consultation and co-construction on the services that are being provided to the public, which are now very insufficient or very threatened in the small communes. I am sure that it is through dialogue that we will be able to remove obstacles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u339	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u340	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u341	I request the withdrawal of the two amendments under discussion, as well as of the two amendments Nos 1138 and 1139 by Mr Chassaigne, which will be called in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have referred you back to Amendment No 243 tabled by Mrs Guerel in Article 23, which proposes an appropriate mechanism, while yours is not well based on the text. In addition, some of the devices you mention already exist. There is nothing to prevent mayors from setting up commissions. I did it myself: for a year, the Bourgtheroule 2050 commission brought together working groups around certain themes. Finally, it is up to the mayors who refuse to cooperate with the population and the associations to assume it in front of the local press and, if necessary, during a general renewal: if a mayor or a municipality is resisted to participatory democracy, they will answer in due course to universal suffrage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u343	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u344	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u345	I will only reply to Amendment No 1140. The rapporteur referred to Article 1. When I listened to her talk about democracy, I thought Marguerite Yourcenar said: "When you consent to words, you consent to acts. It is not enough for an article to express a good intention; If it is possible, it must be put into practice. Moreover, Mr rapporteur, I was certain to hear the argument that you used: a mayor can already create mechanisms for consultation and collaboration with the population, some of them already do. Since the beginning of the debate, we have sought to send signals, by facilitating the possibility of acting in a certain way. However, the establishment of an advisory commission on community services in rural communes must be imposed. We need to send strong signals, if we want to involve the public more closely in the actions of the mayor and the city council. Amendments Nos 1138 and 1139 are not as imperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u346	Read Mrs Guerel's amendment! You'll like him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u347	For now, we're talking about Mr. Chassaigne's!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u348	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u349	The exchange is interesting. Nevertheless, Mr rapporteur, it is not enough to say that the mayor can already set up a committee. Our action is to establish a legal framework for citizens to have more force if the mayor refuses to give them more force. Your paternalistic conception, according to which citizens must expect the mayor to consent to act, by providing remedies in case of refusal, exhausts the French; in this way it does not work. For our part, we believe that good work will be done if we set a legislative framework that allows those who want to be asked not to wait for the mayor's goodwill. My role is not to seek the goodwill of individuals, but to allow citizens to have new rights. I would add that Article 23, which you continue to invoke, is very meagre in the light of the ideas that we submit to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u350	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 1138.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u351	I'm part of what some people call the old world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u352	[[Smile]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u353	I was elected municipal councillor in 1977, I remained mayor for 27 years and I am still a municipal councillor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u354	What an old world, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u355	During this period, I tried to introduce somewhat different practices. I realized that it was not only opportune, but extremely positive to organize what I called "village councils." This allowed, in a commune that brought together many scattered hamlets – these "villages around the village", as we say at home – to bring them together by group or cluster, in order to create exchanges, and then a concertation to bring forward proposals to the city council. This is done nowadays at the level of neighbourhood councils, in cities with more than 80000 inhabitants. That is why I propose to encourage, without imposing, the creation of village councils. This will provide opportunities. I repeat that it is not enough to be right in words; You also have to open a few doors if you want to turn words into deeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u357	I wouldn't like to give you the impression that I don't want to listen at all, Mr. Chassaigne. I have read your amendment, the words of which I recall: "In rural communes [...], each village or hamlet or group of hamlets, composed of a minimum of five separate dwellings, principal or secondary, may, at the initiative of its inhabitants, have a village council. This faculty already exists. But you yourself say that we must stick to the words. Since a possibility already exists, it is not useful to include it in the law; We'd make her talk too much, which happens to us, alas, too often.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u358	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u359	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u360	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u361	I welcome these amendments; If I do not necessarily agree with the letter, I at least share their objective. We will see how the debate evolves, but the citizen seems to me to be very absent from the communal and intercommunal bloc. As legislators, we must ensure that it is taken into account in the application of the law. Therefore, the municipal council must try – this is usually the case – to involve the citizen in its action. Our role as legislators is, of course, to work both for mayors and elected officials, who are dedicated, and for our fellow citizens. One of the difficulties that mayors face is the lack of training. Being mayor doesn't make up. This is not only about going in front of the population, but about thinking about how to involve it in its action. We will defend amendments, within the limited framework of an authorization by order, but I hope that the minister will hear our proposals to propose to the mayors, during the first months of their term, serious training in citizen participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u362	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u363	[[Smile]] I am not going to make it a cheese – in this case, an ambert pot – but finally, rapporteur, in recent days, the minister and you yourself have said several times that you wanted to put in the bill of recommendations, without imposing them, I will list it. We can send signs, you said, to strengthen the link between elected officials and the population. Several articles thus create possibilities, which are not imperative. So you can't argue with me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u364	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u365	I really support President Chassaigne's amendments, this one and the next. In fact, in our country, some elected officials or citizens must not be less regarded and less respected than others. I'll explain. In the priority neighbourhoods of the city's politics, neighbourhood committees, citizen councils were imposed, on the grounds that the elected representatives of these neighbourhoods would not listen well to the population. Remember the slightly suspicious speech that presided over this decision! Do you think that, in rural areas, elected representatives would listen more to the inhabitants? Why should a citizen consultation be imposed in certain parts of France and not elsewhere? The problem is the same everywhere: sometimes, unfortunately, the elected representatives have to listen to the citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u366	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u367	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u368	In this respect, there is no difference between the municipalities. President Chassaigne's proposals therefore seem to me to be moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u369	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u370	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u371	We are not in a coercive framework, where we would seek to impose obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u372	All the more reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u373	Personally, I shall vote in favour of the amendment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u374	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u375	... which tends to introduce into the law a subject which we can discuss, on the basis and in support of the proposed scheme, in all the municipalities concerned. After that, it will be up to each municipality to act or not, and, as I said earlier, to assume its position, at a general renewal. If the amendment is adopted and continues until the last reading, there will be at least one legal mechanism that citizens can use to initiate processes of co-construction of public policies, regardless of the size of the municipality. Personally, therefore, I am expressing a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u376	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u377	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u378	I could be in favour if its wording was changed, but we cannot rule on "rural communes, as defined by the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u379	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u380	On the other hand, we could provide a legal basis for an optional scheme reserved for municipalities above a population threshold, for example 3500 inhabitants. It is done all the time in law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u381	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u382	... but it is not for INSEE to define the municipalities concerned by a scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u383	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u384	[["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] It is important to recall the law in this regard. For the rest, I rely on the wisdom of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u385	Finally, a minister who has common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u386	I would remind you, however, that this is not a small matter. It is up to you to see if you want to correct the wording by a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u387	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u388	The Government is in danger!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u389	Amendment No 1139 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u390	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u391	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u392	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u393	Mr Benjamin Griveaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u394	Ah! He's back!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u395	He'll tell us about rurality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u396	Thank you for your welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Article 12a is intended to strengthen the arrangements for consultation and information-sharing on security issues. Everyone knows, and Mr. Chassaigne, who was mayor for many years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u397	[[Smile]] You're not close to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u398	... reminded him: on this subject, there are frequent meetings – and this is happy – between the police or gendarmerie forces and local elected officials. The article will therefore strengthen a set that works rather well, let's say so. In particular, it will enable municipal elected officials to have a better level of information and to know how the State works in symbiosis with local authorities on public safety and tranquillity. The question arises particularly for the Franciscan parliamentarians, who are regularly questioned on these issues. Minister, as you know, the level of crime in Paris...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u399	Here we go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u400	... is twice the national average. It is important to give precise answers to our fellow citizens, who do not fail to question us on this subject. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This assessment will enable us to provide accurate information every year, to objectify and to rationalize our knowledge of the different types of crime. This information will obviously be valuable to local elected officials, and will contribute to the quality of the public debate on a central topic for our citizens. This will allow the various security forces and the prefects to say things, to objectify debates that sometimes are not entirely so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u401	It's been a long time since he heard any applause! He really needed encouragement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u402	For all these reasons, I invite my colleagues to vote in favour of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u403	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u404	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] As for me, I will not speak as a candidate in a municipal election, but on behalf of our group, to indicate, first of all, that the article has a major editorial problem. I read the beginning: "At the request of the mayor, the representative of the State or his representative". The representative of the State representative: in the end, all this is no longer so representative; This is a problem of form. But the heart of my speech is in substance, Minister. We risk rigidizing a variable geometry device, which, as Mr Griveaux pointed out, is already working well. If we want too much uniformity, we're going to make the appointment formal, empty it with all content and meaning. Many of us here have been mayors or elected from small communes. It is unimaginable to ask a prefect, a sub-prefect, a police director or a gendarmerie colonel to travel 300 or 400 communes each year, to participate in a meeting that lasts a quarter of an hour, during which, inevitably, he will present departmental, regional or national statistics, and will not answer any of the security questions posed by the elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u405	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u406	In reality, at present, the brigade chief, the local police officer or the sub-prefect, depending on the size of the commune, the habits of the elected candidate, his mandate – mayor, departmental or parliamentary councillor – already give precise information about what is happening in the territory. The article, for me, is miswritten and based on a false good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u407	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u408	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u409	The article seems to awaken the municipal vocations... It is clear what the Government intends...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u410	From the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u411	Good: the intention of the legislator. In large municipalities, the link works relatively well. On the other hand, in some rural communes, according to the personal relations between the gendarmerie representatives and the mayor, the situation is different. Sometimes we, as parliamentarians, go back to the information that the mayors' inquiries remain unanswered. These are questions of people, I think. I agree with Mr Viala's remarks about another difficulty. If it is to present national statistics, it is interesting in itself, but it will not advance the debate on the territory, the municipality. The underlying intention is to strengthen the link between the gendarmerie and municipalities, particularly in small municipalities; This is important, and it corresponds to a demand from all elected officials. On the other hand, the proposed framework is too rigid, which raises some questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u412	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u413	It is essential to organize a dialogue not only between the mayor and the representative of the State, but also between the latter and the municipal council. Often, the mayor maintains a dialogue with the police and the gendarmerie, but this is not always the case for municipal elected officials, especially those of the opposition. In my view, such a dialogue should not stop there. There are many examples of prefects who go to departmental councils, regional councils once a year, in order to dialogue with elected officials on State policy. It can be understood that they do not go to each small commune; In these cases, meetings could take place at an intercommunal or cantonal meeting. In any event, it seems to me important that the representative of the State come before the elected representatives and that a constructive dialogue take place, not just with the mayor. I am rather in favour of Article 12A; It may be necessary to broaden its scope, we will see. Anyway, he's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u414	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u415	I would remind you that every year, throughout France, each community of brigades in the gendarmerie gathers the mayors or their representatives for a report. A meeting is taking place – this is happening everywhere, at least I hope – and a written report on the activity of the community of brigades is even produced. It allows the city council to debate later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u416	Exactly, it's the brigadier's magazine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u417	I welcome this development: while it did not take place a few years ago, it seems to me to have become systematic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u418	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u419	Several points were raised. Madam President Rabault, the article is not the result of a government initiative, but of amendments tabled by senators, members of the LR group and the Socialist and Republican group. Mr Pupponi is right: reports on the activity of the state services in the department are presented to the general councils – it is even a legal obligation. It is an old republican practice: the report is presented by the first representative of the state in the department, the prefect. On the other hand, the Senate amendments were particularly poorly drafted. I refreshed your memory: it was written that the "Police Commissioner" – if it is a functional commander who exercises the responsibilities, so bad – would be obliged to surrender at least once a year, at the mayor's request, to the city council! In the Law Committee, MPs collectively decided to put this matter back in order. That is why, Mr Viala, the text refers to "the representative of the State or its representative"; Because in law, rather than using the words "the prefect, the sub-prefect or the prefect of the region", we speak of "the representative of the state in the department". The formula seems redundant but is not, because the prefect is free to delegate the task to the person he wishes – both a police officer, a gendarmerie member or a prefectural member, if any. However, you are right to ask the following question, Mr Viala: Do we need a legal mechanism for this dialogue to take place? In absolute terms, this is a matter of government instruction. You talked about the gendarmerie. General Lizurey, when he was Director General of the National Gendarmerie, restored the function of NCO for the commune – although there may of course be exceptions here or there, places where the device does not work. In any case, this is not a matter of law, but of the internal organization of the State. Fifth point, as Minister Griveaux pointed out, the elected representatives are calling for a democratic debate, which goes beyond, as Mr Pupponi also pointed out, the only framework of the relationship between the mayor and the representative of the State, to include all the elected representatives – including parliamentarians, sometimes. For example, last night some Members explained that parliamentarians wanted to be involved in the work of the CISCs and tabled amendments to that effect. Other parts of the State's activity in the department, particularly in the area of security, should not be ignored. Section 12A will allow, at municipal councils, open to the public, where the press is present, for a period of time during which the prefect or his delegate presents the activity in the public security electoral district, whatever it may be. This seems to me to be in line with what is expected; In any case, in the Senate, the proposal seemed to be unanimous on all benches. I therefore propose that you maintain the current wording of this good article, and I express in advance an unfavorable opinion on all the amendments to which it is subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u420	I have before me four amendments, Nos 491, 118, 106 and 504, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Arnaud Viala to support Amendment No. 491.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u421	I will not repeat myself, but I would like to remind you that, on the occasion of each of the security bills we have examined in recent years, the issue of the mayor's level of information has been the subject of a debate, never entirely decided. Even today, to my knowledge, it has not yet been decided whether and when the mayor should be informed of the identity of alleged terrorists, which creates real difficulties. And this article does not concern information of this nature, obviously, since the choice was made to present the report to the entire municipal council. Finally, with regard to the expression "the representative of the State or his representative", whenever the "State representative" is mentioned, it goes without saying that the prefect may appoint a delegate, as he deems appropriate. Let's lighten up the writing a little bit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u422	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u423	For my part, I consider that the exchange must be mandatory and automatic. In terms of security, co-production is increasingly being discussed, and mayors are at the heart of the system, even though security belongs to the domain of regal. I believe that the representative of the state appointed by the prefect, commissioner or gendarmerie, must present the state's action to the municipal council and provide a report. Safety in the municipalities depends largely on the resources of the local authorities. When a mayor decides to commit funds for the municipal police and video protection, there must be an institutionalized, mandatory and automatic exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u424	Mr Pauget's Amendment No 106 is being defended. Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to support Amendment No. 504.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u425	According to the article as adopted by the Law Commission, the State representative presents the State's action in the area of security and prevention of crime to the municipal council and at the request of the mayor. However, like Mr Viala, I think that, for rural areas, an overall view of this action should be given, and for this the relevant territorial scale is the EPCI. It is also necessary to allow municipalities of a certain size – for example, those with more than 20,000 inhabitants – to benefit from a presentation before the municipal council, at the request of the mayors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u426	What is the Committee's opinion on the four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u427	The debate has already taken place and the minister has been clear: the opinion is unfavourable on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u428	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u429	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u430	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u431	I would like to make three points. Mr Viala, concerning radicalized individuals or individuals on the S file, a circular from the Ministry of the Interior provides that mayors are informed of the state of the threat. This information takes place in accordance with the provisions of the SILT law – strengthening internal security and combating terrorism – and is organized by regulations, in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of the Interior. We have indeed changed the article by retaining the wording "the representative of the State or his representative", so as not to exclude the areas covered by the gendarmerie, which are precisely the subject of this text, as communities of communes and communities of agglomeration are rarely located in the police zone. Finally, the choice to inform the city council and not only the mayor adds to the interest of the article. The mayor, who maintains a privileged relationship with the prefect, the police commander, or the colonel or gendarmerie officer, will be informed, as will the municipal councillors, including those of the opposition, who so far did not necessarily have the information, on the contrary of the elected majority responsible for dealing with these issues in the municipal executive. Thus all municipal councillors will benefit from perfect information on the degree of threat, the action of the State, the police and the gendarmerie in the territory. That is salutary, because we all contribute to the public safety mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u432	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u433	We all agree that the fight against crime is the joint action of mayors and state authorities, including the police authorities. However, the comments that have just been made inspire me to comment on two points. [[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] In Paris, first of all, crime is not just the case of Parisians: Paris is a central city in which many events take place and, Saturday after Saturday, there are events that are degenerating. It cannot therefore be claimed that delinquency is particularly important in the capital because, once again, it is not the case only of Parisians. In addition, the fight against crime of all kinds is part of a joint action between the police commissioner and the Paris municipality. Let us remind our distinguished colleague Griveaux that the police prefect regularly sits on the Paris Council, before whom he can intervene regularly on these subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u434	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u435	I agree with Mr Houlié that I was not in favour of creating the S file for a simple reason: first of all, it is not really a file.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u436	It is the FSPRT, the file of alerts for the prevention of radicalization of a terrorist nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u437	[[Smile]] Above all, I wish good courage to the police commissioner or gendarmerie commander to whom it will be up to the mayor to announce that he appears himself in this file...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u438	In Sarcelles, you know something!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u439	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u440	[[Smile]] Once again, I do not want to interfere in the Parisian municipal debate, but, dear colleague Pau-Langevin, the crime of Aveyron is not only avoyonnaise, and this is probably true for all the departments! You are not yet Minister of the Interior, Mr. Houlié, but when you are, which will surely happen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u441	We don't hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u442	Don't talk about misfortune!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u443	...the circular will have to be clarified because the mayors do not have the information in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u444	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u445	We find everything in Paris, even deputies of the Essonne who submit their candidacy to the city hall, and we are pleased about it – I am still there on this subject. We have tabled amendments which you have not considered admissible, but I agree enough with Mr Pupponi: let us be careful about this information. Perhaps I will shock you, but on another subject, I believe that the hearings of police officials, for example, could be an opportunity to discuss the techniques used. Thus, we are opposed to the recurring use of the LBD, the defensive bullet launchers, because we believe they are a cause of concern for injury. We advocated that the municipal council might be able to make known its wish that such material – which the Defender of Rights considers dangerous and whose record is terrible – could not be used in the territory of its jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u446	And that the councillors go to the city council with a bulletproof vest?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u447	We could imagine other types of relations with law enforcement, for example by allowing the municipal council to give its opinion on the techniques used rather than this form in our eyes impassable of delation – let us admit it – similar to rumours based on unverified elements concerning the presence of such or such in a file. You yourself know, Mr. Houlié, that many people can be in this file for countless reasons and that behind the letter S, which has become impressive, are many realities hidden. This would be much more an element of deflagration in the local debate than an element of information to ensure security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u448	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 380.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u449	When we defended it in the Law Committee, this amendment was poorly drafted; We therefore propose a more consensual and flexible version. The problem is that mayors, a police authority, file complaints with the gendarmerie or the police station, after which they no longer receive news. However, they sometimes find themselves face to face with the person in question, which makes it difficult, especially if it is prolonged. We therefore consider it essential, because the mayor dares not do so, that the prosecutor, respecting the adversarial nature of the investigation, can, at the end of the investigation, inform the mayor, by virtue of his qualifications, of the classification without follow-up of the complaint or, on the contrary, of the initiation of proceedings. That seems essential to us. Such a situation does not often occur, but where it is, it is very difficult for mayors, especially in rural areas; Therefore, they should not be left alone, without news of the follow-up to the complaint. This is not a preferential treatment but a simple information, which many citizens should also receive when they file complaints, moreover.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u450	Nice amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u451	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u452	This amendment was rejected in committee before being amended at the margin. I refer you to the fine amendment that the Government will defend in Article 15 quater, which will fully satisfy your legitimate concerns. I'm asking for the withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u453	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u454	It's the same. We have made a commitment to rewrite the ill-written provision of the Senate; That's what we'll do earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u455	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs Untermaier?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u456	Yes, even though I regret that we cannot get together around a parliamentary amendment rather than a government amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u457	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 1391.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u458	Although similar in spirit to the previous one, this amendment is drafted in a slightly different way: it aims to ensure that a mayor who has made a report is informed of the follow-up given to the report. I agree that this principle should not fall under the law and should go without saying, but that is not the case, hence the mention that we are proposing to add. I understand that you are opposing the argument that the principle in question is not a matter of law, but it must be applied everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u459	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u460	I do not know a mayor, Mrs Rabault, who, in the absence of news, would not himself inquire about the follow-up given to her report. Again, I refer you to the Government's amendment to Article 15 quater.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u461	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1180, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u462	Following a request made by several groups in committee, I tabled this amendment, which reads: "After each general renewal, the State representative in the department and the prosecutor of the territorially competent Republic shall receive the mayors to present to them the powers they exercise on behalf of the State and as judicial police officers. From the date of their appointment, mayors and deputies shall be issued with a tricolor identity card attesting to their functions. Indeed, they only obtain this card on request and the situation is not uniform at the national level. It is therefore a matter of formalizing this process to densify the legitimacy of the functions in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u463	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u464	This request has in fact been addressed to us on numerous occasions by presidents of departmental associations noting that the situation varies according to prefectural practices. This amendment has the merit of standardizing it; the opinion is therefore in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u465	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u466	We have had a lengthy exchange in committee on the training of mayors, and we have considered that the initial information provided to them does not sufficiently take into account the function-specific nature of the State agent. We will therefore support this sensible amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u467	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u468	Amendment No. 1390, which follows and of which I am the author, differs slightly from this amendment, since it specifies that the meeting with the High Court takes place within three months of the renewal of the municipal council in order to inform the mayors of their rights and obligations, and of all the provisions relating to the role of OPJ – judicial police officer – which they are sometimes forced to exercise under special conditions. Let me have this anecdote. In a commune in my constituency, the gendarmes intervened in a search, in the absence of OPJ. They therefore called on the mayor to fulfil this role; But he found himself the only one not wearing a bulletproof vest, and the gendarmes warned him. Clearly, some mayors find themselves in difficult or even dangerous situations. That is why I have added, in relation to the rapporteur's proposal, the time limit of three months, so that we can be sure that the information is provided and that the elected representatives, whether old or new, have an exchange and know exactly what they can do, how they are protected and what rights they are entitled to in the context of their mission of OPJ, since they have to exercise it in their communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u469	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u470	I agree with all of you, Mrs. Rabault. In advance, however, I would ask for Amendment No 1390 to be withdrawn, which you are about to defend, because it entrusts the Courts of Justice with the task of organising the information meeting. Rather, it should be the responsibility of the public prosecutor's offices and the public prosecutor's office, since, apart from the fact that the investigating magistrate exercises his authority, the supervisory authority of the judicial police officers – including when they are police officers or gendarmes – is of course the prosecutor. The rapporteur's amendment, which explicitly entrusts this task to the State representative and the prosecutor, targets the responsibilities involved. As for your second argument concerning the deadline, it is wise. I simply propose that you clarify by an instruction from the Minister of the Interior to the Prefects, in one case, and by a circular from the Guard of Seals, in the other, that the meeting should take place during the first quarter following the general renewal. Again, I agree with your proposal, but it seems to me that it can be met without amending the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u471	I would like it to be noted in the record of the debates that Mr Griveaux has left the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u472	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 1390.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u473	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u474	I call Mr Jolivet to support Amendment No. 339.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u475	In defending this amendment, I am thinking of the mayors who will cease their term of office in a few months' time and who renounce it because they have suffered attacks and moral or physical violence. Of course, Mrs. Rabault, the mayor is a judicial police officer, but he is if he has been sworn in in court. In most cases, however, the courts in question regard him as an ordinary person, not benefiting from the so-called "good faith" presumption when he expresses himself and reports the facts he has suffered. I want the blue, white and red scarf to be a protective scarf, not just a legal one. I propose that you create a kind of republican shield, so that when speaking orally, the mayor is considered in the same way as his municipal policeman, whose written report is not contested. In the adversarial procedure of French law, one begins by thinking – this applies to the gamekeepers, the municipal police, the gendarmes and all those who hold an authority – that the person who writes is right. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Experience has shown that this is not always the case, if I believe the examples that have occurred in my department. That is why I am asking you to adopt this amendment, which would be a fine symbol for all those elected, even if the Joint Joint Committee did something else. In any event, it seems to me necessary to assume that the words and writings of a mayor are in good faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u476	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u477	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u478	I hear, I understand and I accept the relevance of the reasoning. The difficulty lies in the violence that could be experienced by everyone in their daily lives, after which they should themselves provide proof of the facts they report. The adoption of the measure you propose would create a form of privilege, if I may say so, granted to elected officials in the form of a reversal of the burden of proof in criminal law. I therefore propose that the amendment be withdrawn. We must certainly work on this issue, but not in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u479	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u480	I see this amendment as an appeal amendment, because the notion of a presumption of good faith is not recognized by any category of citizens. In criminal law, in a rape case, one does not look at the fragility of the person to assume that he or she is in good faith, but some factors are assessed, as fragility may be one of them, such as the bond of subordination. I am the first to defend the elected ones, but to assume them, by virtue of their function, in good faith, is not to take the question through the right end. The good thing is to maintain the aggravating nature of the penalties for attacks on persons who are the custodians of public authority. Moreover, even if adopted, your amendment would be inoperative by certain aspects, because the burden of proof, in criminal law, is always on the prosecution, not the defence, you know. For these reasons, it is not appropriate to adopt the amendment, which I consider to be an appeal to the common sense and discernment of judicial police officers and prosecutors, when they decide not to proceed, to initiate a preliminary inquiry or to appoint an investigating magistrate in the absence of a civil party. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u481	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u482	I hear your arguments, but I simply ask that a mayor, a deputy mayor or a deputy municipal councillor be afforded the same protection as a municipal police officer in the commune. I do not agree at all with you, minister, on the notion of reversing the burden of proof and the good or bad point of understanding the issue. When a prosecutor receives a signed report from a municipal police officer, he or she considers that the police officer is right – even if he or she is liable to punishment or conviction in case of a lie. I hope that the mayor will benefit from the same legal framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u483	That is not what is proposed in the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u484	The presumption of good faith is necessary, because an assaulted mayor is not always believed. It's not normal! If a police officer claims to have been the victim of contempt on the part of a person, the person is sentenced, even in the absence of a witness. We believe the police officer! France tends to protect civil servants more than elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u485	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u486	I would like to greet a mayor of my constituency, Christian Arveuf, who was very violently attacked last Monday, simply because he had asked the driver of a car crossing his village at a very fast pace to slow down near the school. The driver stopped, got out of the car and violently battled him. However, he went to the Congress of Mayors and was in our walls yesterday. I asked him what the follow-up would be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u487	None!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u488	He replied that it would depend on his ability to prove that he had announced his status as mayor. When I asked him if he had mentioned his position, he replied that he had told the driver that he was the mayor of the commune and that he was asking him to slow down in the village. After speaking this sentence, he was violently assaulted. How can he demonstrate that he said he was the mayor of the commune?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u489	That is not the subject of the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u490	Yes, it's connected, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u491	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u492	In any case, there are real difficulties: will his word be believed or not?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u493	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u494	There may be a problem with the wording of the amendment, but it would be appropriate, at the very least, for the guard of the seals to send a note to the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u495	That's what she did ten days ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u496	Elected people are often insulted – this has happened to me. When I was mayor, a national education inspector got stoned in my commune. After calling the police, I went to the scene, where I got insulted. The delinquents tried to set my car on fire because they knew me. I arrested them and handed them over to the police, present at the scene, but the prosecutor released them, on the grounds that they were drinking. Two hours later, they were in their neighborhood bragging about insulting the mayor and being able to do what they wanted. This is also true life! The public prosecutor's offices do not consider that repeated insults against an elected official are of extreme gravity! It spreads a dramatic image in the territories: when an offender, who insulted or even hit a mayor, is released two hours later, imagine what message is sent to these neighborhoods! There's a real subject. The amendment may not be perfect, but a solution must be found for the Republic to protect elected officials as well as officials: the elected one, when he is a judicial police officer, must be protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u497	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1464.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u498	It is the result of a long consultation between the Association of Mayors of France and presidents of intercommunality, representatives of the circus and carnival profession and the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u499	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 119.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u500	It amends the Code of Criminal Procedure, in order to allow assistant judicial police officers, i.e. municipal police officers, to carry out an administrative identity check. This control would be carried out on the orders and under the responsibility of the mayor, a judicial police officer. The amendment responds to a great need for municipal police officers in urban areas, because, in the current state of law, they cannot carry out identity checks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u501	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u502	Article 78-6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure already allows municipal police officers to identify offenders in order to draw up a report. We do not think that we should go further: the opinion of the committee is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u503	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u504	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u505	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u506	You do not see me well, Madam President, because I have asked you for the floor several times and you are ignoring me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u507	You got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u508	I fully agree with the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Pauget, especially since I had tabled the same amendment, which was rebutted by the sitting. There was a real problem, and the Minister of the Interior wished to develop close cooperation between the national police and the municipal police. To grant the municipal police the right to carry out identity checks would provide a great deal of assistance to the national police, often overcrowded and deprived of resources. The National Police would like to see greater cooperation with municipal police, which in some cities have significant capacity to work on the ground. I have tabled several amendments: one identical to that of Mr Pauget, which I do not know why, I said, and others to Article 15 and later. They aim to extend the prerogatives of the municipal police. The purpose of the bill is to empower and support mayors, but they cannot do much of their police power, at least in large cities, if they are not assisted by the municipal police. Giving mayors more prerogatives also means giving municipal police more prerogatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u509	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u510	I come back to the co-production of security, a doctrine accepted by the previous minister of the interior, Gérard Collomb, and then taken over by his successor, Christophe Castaner.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u511	Yet it is much less good...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u512	The co-production of security must not only be found in the means, but also in the acts. That the municipal police cannot, apart from the minutes, carry out an identity check, constitutes a break in the chain of co-production of security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u513	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u514	I should have explained my unfavorable opinion, but I had detailed it in committee. I would like to explain the reasons for this opinion, which will be valid for the amendments we will be discussing this afternoon. This bill deals with the mayor's own police power, on which there is a lot of progress, as you can see. In addition, the Government is drafting another text, the outline of which is similar to that of a LOPSI – the Internal Security Policy and Programming Act – which will build on the White Paper on Internal Security and address all aspects of security. It will integrate municipal police and private security into what is known as the security continuum, which present issues for the communal block. Consultations for the drafting of the White Paper have begun, and the Minister of the Interior will present a text next year. In this bill, the provisions deal with the mayor's powers of OPJ. What are they? The law already defines them, and questions of formation arise, as President Rabault recalled. As for the administrative police, I think we will discuss this this afternoon. In any case, we propose that you do not legislate in this text on municipal policies as such. That is why the Government is opposed to this amendment: it is not a substantive rejection, but a disagreement on the vector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u515	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u516	In accordance with our new regulation, I exercise my right of removal from voting on Rule 13 and the amendments to which it is subject, and will forbid me to take part in the voting. My professional background is no secret to anyone: I have practiced for more than twenty years in the beverage business and more than ten years in its unions, and I keep minority shares in a family company. After seeking the opinion of the National Assembly's Ethics Officer, I will participate in the discussions, in order to bring my knowledge and experience to it, with a view to enlightening the debates, like each of you in your respective professional fields. It is with many years of experience as deputy mayor and the legitimacy derived from the mandate given to me by our fellow citizens through the election that I take part in the discussion on the article. Article 13 gives mayors who so request the prefect's powers of administrative sanction, in the event of an "emergency to act", an important concept. However, attention must be paid to the double-edged edge of this measure: it is necessary to regulate the new faculty to protect both elected officials from recourse, and professionals from abusive, political or personal sanctions. The creation of the commission on the sale of beverages provides protection for mayors because its decisions will be collegial. It's common sense! The same common sense must apply to the notion of urgency to act. If the current text allows for rapid or even immediate authorization, what emergency value has a closure pronounced more than a month after the facts? Let us also consider collateral damage for employees, customers and social life. Shouldn't it be a warning period when the closure punishes too old facts?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u517	This is becoming absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u518	In conclusion, the mayor must be able to apply the law quickly in the event of a disturbance to public order; However, professionals must be reassured and assured that they will not be victims of political examples or strategies. In this, the article can be further improved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u519	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u520	We are witnessing an exceptional moment in Parliament's life: the register of deportations serves for the first time, and it is even more incomprehensible than at the time of its preparation. I do not incriminate you, Mr Blanchet, on the contrary: we have had very interesting discussions in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure; We knew your professional background through a Google search, for those who were not yet aware! You weren't right every time we talked. In any case, we reach the peak of absurdity, since you announce your delay before developing your ideas on the subject, which are quite relevant and interesting, even if we do not agree with them all. This mode of operation is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u521	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u522	[[Laughs and applause]] The principle of deportation is interesting and important. You'll allow me a bit of humor. Our colleague Blanchet was very relevant in committee, where he spoke to explain the situation in the sector, which he knows well. But, on this subject, all those who have a little too much access to drinks should also deport themselves...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u523	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-21-O1079.u524	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further consideration of the draft law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. The meeting is adjourned.
