ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill for a school of trust (No. 1481, 1629).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u2	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u3	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, ladies and gentlemen, the school is the foundation of society. As such, it is our most precious good and it imposes on us, for this very reason, to be up to the project that carries it, the republican project, deeply rooted in the French soul. The school of the Republic is our common good because it is a promise addressed to every child born in our country: the promise that we form a community of destiny bound by the same values, that of freedom, equality, fraternity and secularism; the promise that birth will never be more important than virtues; the promise of courage, work, respect and collective sense. The French school, with its 51000 schools, 7000 colleges and 5000 lycées, covers all our territories, this spirit of Enlightenment which has made human progress and social progress the same aspiration. In our countryside, in the heart of our neighborhoods, in our small, medium or large cities, on their edges, on the periphery, there is a school, old or modern, which says the same thing every time: "Daughters and sons of France, your country believes in you". As we prepare to debate the school, I want to pay tribute to those who, day after day, carry this spirit of progress: the national education staff, the teachers and the elected representatives of the nation, especially the mayors. We are demanding about our school, and that is quite normal. As a result, we often stress its weaknesses. They exist, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u4	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u5	I don't deny it. But this law must help to overcome them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let us imagine for a moment this collective masterpiece which we sometimes tend to forget, and which sees 800,000 teachers welcome in the same momentum 13 million students every day. We owe it to the dedication of the elected representatives for their territory, to the commitment of all the administrative staff of national education and, of course, to the passion and conviction of our teachers. In each of us, there is a teacher who continues to watch, because one day he was able to find the words, because he had this intelligence of looking at us, simply because he transmitted to us the essential: the desire to be grown up by the language. And the words of this woman or this man are still in us. They make us up. I mean here, before you, representatives of the nation, everything that France owes to these women and men who, yesterday and today, put their existence at the service of the education and education of the children of our country. We French are heirs to an ancient and glorious school tradition. On all the benches of this assembly, all along the five republics, but also the regimes that they spanned, officials with different political sensitivities brought their stone to this building. All shared the same fight for the progress of the human spirit and fought the same enemy, ignorance. Everyone had the same feeling at heart, drawn from the source of humanistic culture, that one was born man, but that one really became man by knowledge and values. Each one proudly carried the 18th-century humanist ideal that extended, if not affirmed, so well in the 19th and 20th centuries. Everyone shared Victor Hugo's idea of poverty, "an evil that must be healed by light". With this bill, I do not propose that you drop the moorings and break with this tradition. I'm not proposing to recast or rebuild. I propose a new step in this glorious epic, as a tree can revive a powerful branch of its venerable and robust trunk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u8	It's poetic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u9	For while the Republic has succeeded in massifying primary school, then secondary education, and then higher education, it remains to ensure the full success of all its pupils. As I speak, that's not the case. Today, 20 per cent of students leave primary school without mastering basic knowledge. These – reading, writing, counting and respecting others – are not acquired by all. In the past, in the context of a highly industrialized economy, our school could almost accommodate this failure. Today, the technological world and the knowledge society in which we are living place the risk of social exclusion, which can be total, on the child who is experiencing school difficulties. This reality is all the less acceptable because many students who struggle to find the way to success come from economically and culturally fragile families. Since the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister entrusted me with the Ministry of National Education and Youth, you have heard me say on several occasions that a law would not be enough to change this situation. That is why, without delay, we have committed ourselves to a double effort of general raising of the level and social justice. Raising the general level to guarantee social justice, ensuring social justice to allow the rise of the general level: it is this dual logic that we are trying to push through the various public policies. Today, we have almost completed the duplication of classes of preparatory courses – CP – and elementary first-year courses – CE1 – in the priority education network – REP and REP + – which, at the next school year, will allow 300,000 students, among the most fragile, to learn to read in privileged conditions. This ambitious and unprecedented policy, which affects almost 20% of a generation, is an innovation not only in France, but in the world. It is at the forefront of an indispensable voluntarism for all primary school students to master, by entering college, the basic knowledge. As a follow-up to this measure, we have enriched the offer of teaching at the college by valuing the foundation of our culture, the classical humanities, which allows students to project themselves into the world – I am talking about the study of languages, whether they are old or foreign. In keeping with the diversity of the talents and desires of the students, we have especially initiated a profound transformation of the general high school, the technological high school and the vocational high school, in order to give more accompaniment, more freedom and more success. Today, nearly 60 per cent of students, who have become students, fail to obtain a three-year degree, and 23 per cent of our youth are unemployed. This is the contemporary scandal, the evil that must be taken to root. These figures, we must fight them collectively and with a constancy of brass, which should bring us all together. Beyond their coldness, they say the frustration, the doubt about the future and, quite simply, the feeling of relegation that some of our compatriots may experience. If today I stand before you to defend a new school law, it is that after this first work, which did not require a law, the time has come to deliberate on what the nation intends to do with the magnificent heritage that I have mentioned. Either we give in to fear and timidity, and we will mistakenly believe to preserve the inheritance; either we show boldness, courage and we will enrich this legacy for the benefit of all, through innovation, through new ways. What we are discussing is the new links that we are building between our school and our society. By the same token, we are asking the question of the society we want to build and the democracy we want. We do so at a time when unprecedented upheavals are taking place in our world. We postulate that school is the most fundamental response to all the challenges facing humanity: ecological transition, social justice, gender equality, health for all, better care for children with disabilities, respect for others, and the struggle for a new demographic dynamism in our territories. To all these questions asked to man to master his destiny, the first of the answers is, each time, the school. And to the great question of our time, which is how this ever more technological world can be ever more human, the answer is, again, school. Our modernity is rich in opportunities, especially as a result of the digital revolution, from which we will fully benefit the students. Unfortunately, it is also fertile in peril – disinformation, false news, the exacerbation of sad passions – against which students must be protected by the development of logical meaning and by the general culture. In this world, France has more than ever an essential role to play in building an educational model that is balanced between knowledge, values and emancipation for all. So our nation will remain a country of innovation that will continue to attract the best minds. Thus the French will regain confidence in their school, trust in their future and, quite simply, trust in themselves. The title of this bill for a school of trust makes this last term the foundation of our project. There is social prosperity only in the trust given to the freedom of everyone and to the freedom of each territory, in a spirit of responsibility. The legislative work that we have to carry out embodies this spirit of trust and I am pleased that the text has already greatly enriched itself with your contributions. Trust is the subject of Article 1. It is in school that the future citizen must learn to trust others and to trust himself. Such trust is not decreed; It must be a living evidence. We know that today, French society is not enough a society of trust. That is why we need a school of trust, which triggers the virtuous circle of society's trust in itself. To do this, the child needs the adults who are in charge of raising him or her, the family, the educational team, to agree on the essentials: benevolence to each child and respect for the values in which he or she will grow up. The virtuous circle of trust between school and family requires respect for the authority and the word of the master. It also involves the close association of families with the school institution. This united adult community will collectively advance the school and allow our society to be more serene and happier. All international studies show that the first two success factors in a school system are teacher training, which I will talk about in a moment, and the relationship between parents and the school. Article 1 emphasises this link, as well as the trust that we all owe each other. What defines man is first of all his language and what defines man in society is his ability to use this language to interact with others and grow up in this way. There is therefore no real social policy without language policy. Recent surveys show that the French language and the school appear precisely as the first two cements that the French recognize to make nation. That is why the truly founding act of our republican school – and, one might say, of the Republic itself – is to raise education to a fundamental obligation. In March 1882 the Republicans, barely out of the electoral fray, imposed the obligation of instruction from 6 to 13 years. In 1936, Jean Zay, supported by progressive forces, raised this obligation to 14 years. In 1959, General de Gaulle, the founder of a new social and political pact, rose to 16 years of age. Since the end of the 19th century, no government has considered it fair to raise the age of compulsory schooling, as kindergarten, sometimes in an irregular manner and without follow-up, has not always been seen as a real school. However, the admirable work done by teachers, the specialized territorial agents of nursery schools – ATSEM – and all the educational staff shows the opposite. In addition, research highlights year after year that this moment in kindergarten is decisive for the future mastery of basic knowledge. I am convinced that France's choice of compulsory education from the age of three, that is, from the first years of life, will be imitated by other countries. As a result, all countries will focus on the so-called "pre-school" and "pre-school" schools in France. It is for this reason that the President of the Republic wished to move towards the requirement of investigation from the age of three. It is for me, therefore, to propose to the national representative that the nursery school be made a full school. By this act, we proclaim its decisive importance in reducing inequalities from an early age, and in particular the first of them, inequality against language. I sometimes object to the fact that many of the children are already enrolled in nursery school – in this regard, 97 per cent of the children in this situation are mentioned. But it is forgotten that the 3% who did not attend school corresponds to 25,000 pupils per year. Should we consider these 25,000 pupils as negligible or, on the contrary, look at them as closely as possible, as the most disadvantaged children in France? Through compulsory education at 3 years of age, is expressed not only an emblematic message, but also a concrete message at the service of the children who need it most. Learning vocabulary, the gradual emergence of a grammatical consciousness, the awakening of sensitivity by the arts, psychomotor and emotional development, socialization through respect for rules and by play, clear awareness of good and evil and concern for well-made work are essential foundations for stimulating school fun, as well as trust and happiness in our children. It is sometimes said that the French school does not pay sufficient attention to this dimension of happiness, or even to this dimension of trust. It is precisely the nursery school that does the best, and if we insist on this dimension, it is for it to be contagious for the other ages of life, because it is from the first years that cognitive and social skills are determined. We can thus change the destiny of our children, but also of our country, by paying greater attention to this nursery school which we, the French, invented in 1848 and which must take a new impetus at the beginning of the twenty-first century. As such, we owe to the well-educated children in their families a particularly careful monitoring of the quality of the teachings they receive. We all know that this is not the case everywhere. Freedom of education is a fundamental right that we respect, but the just and proper education received by children is a requirement that the Republic must formulate vis-à-vis all. We cannot compromise on this point. As I said during the examination of another piece of legislation, it is clear that the school institution must have the organizational means to ensure that home education is real and effective, and that it enables all children to reach preparatory courses with the necessary skills. Nothing is more decisive for the emancipation of a child than all these years of compulsory schooling. They require constant attention and careful monitoring of students' progress. That is why, through this bill, we propose, on an experimental basis and following the proposals of the majority and opposition parliamentarians, the creation of a school of basic knowledge. From kindergarten to the last year of the college, in perfect continuity of administration, she will follow the students and protect them from these ruptures, sometimes painful, between kindergarten and elementary, or between elementary and secondary school. The work done by our teachers must be supported. That is why it is so important to give them homogenous, national benchmarks and tools to carry out their essential work. The confidence that the nation places in its school is also reflected, in this bill, in the creation of an assessment council. Any human community that sets a specific goal for its action has one day the need to take stock of its successes, to value them, or its failures, in order to overcome them. This very simple idea finds its foundation in the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 26 August 1789. To do this, we need to forge a new vision of evaluation, totally dedramatized. Evaluation is not punitive – it is true for both students and institutions. On the contrary, it is a lever of success. The dedramatization of failure, of evaluation, of what is imperfect, this is what leads us to perfection! With the evaluation board, we will have, for the first time, an evaluation system for our schools and institutions, based on self-assessment. This will be followed by a team effort to formulate an educational project for each school and school, which will both provide regular institutional support and ensure progress every five years through evaluation. We do not want stagnation in failure. All too often, we accommodate difficulties related to particular territories and which are as fixed on the ground. We want, with the evaluation, to develop real educational projects that have the ambition to get out of schools – and, through them, territories – of the difficulty. Evaluation is, in a way, the fight against fatality. The spirit of trust that drives this piece of legislation must also lead to greater freedom for actors. It is the meaning of the right to experiment, which is strongly extended. This right is a sign of confidence in the women and men who work closest to realities and territories. Freeing, empowering, uniting: these words are the keystone of this text. The institution's primary responsibility for its teachers is therefore, as I have begun to say, to train them well. I repeat: teacher training is the first success factor in a school system. The Ministry of National Education cannot therefore be disinterested in what is going on ahead of its work: as an employer, it is legitimate for it to exert a substantial influence on the initial training of teachers. What is easily transmitted is what is perfectly controlled. We must therefore take a new step in the training of teachers in schools, colleges and high schools. That is why I propose that you create new institutes: the national higher institutes of faculty and education – INSPE – that will succeed the higher schools of faculty and education – ESPE – in order to take into account the limitations of our initial training system, highlighted by many observers, and first of all by the students themselves. We design these institutes as real vocational schools, positioned within the university. We will thus articulate the best of science and the best of practice. In fact, this new institution that succeeds the old one must take what is best in the university – scientific excellence, excellence in research, excellence in the various fields of knowledge – but it must also take what is best in what comes from the field, that is, teachers who are still in front of the students and that we can partially discharge from their classes to enable them to teach in front of future teachers. This pragmatism which we want to adopt in the initial training of teachers by ensuring that at least one third of the speakers – and if possible more – come from the field and speak of concrete experiences lived in the present in front of the students, must, in addition to scientific excellence, advance the quality of the training of our future teachers. These institutes will also accompany a very important innovation: the pre-recruitment of professors. The greatness of the French school is to have always managed to pass on to the students the values of meritocracy by those who were the most beautiful fruits of it: the teachers. Indeed, in many ways, the Republic has always been able to distract from the most vivid material contingencies: it was the normal school and the institutes of preparation for the second degree teachings. We must return to this tradition, of course, by bringing it a new touch, adapted to the twenty-first century. This must give access to education to those whose families cannot afford the cost of education or who, before entering the career, want to gauge their appetite for this profession. Pre-recruitment will give thousands of students every year, by enabling them to gain experience in schools and institutions from their first year of study, the means to live and test their vocation, while national education will be able to expand, from both a social and intellectual point of view, the pool of people who will practice the beautiful profession of teacher. This evolution of pre-recruitment, the result of the social dialogue led by the Ministry of National Education over the last few months, stems from a vision of the renewal of our ability to train, both in initial and continuing training, the professors of the Republic. This pre-recruitment is therefore a key to the evolution of initial teacher training in France. In the end, if the French school is so consubstantial to the Republic, it is because it was and remains its face: the face of the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u10	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u11	What was the Republic for the French at the end of the 19th century, if not this school that brought with it not only some material comfort, but also, and above all, moral and intellectual progress? Today, our horizons extend to the world and everyone feels the need for our students to master foreign languages in order to benefit from the immense cultural and professional opportunities offered by the increasing number of exchanges in Europe and in the world. This applies to the training of our teachers, because we will ensure that as many of them as possible can make stays abroad during their training, but it also applies to our students and will contribute to the influence of France in the concert des nations and to its ability to attract the best talents. From the perspective outlined by the President of the Republic in his speech to the Sorbonne on 26 September 2017, we want to show unwavering voluntarism to develop the teaching of foreign languages and, from an early age, to raise students' awareness of their first foreign language. Today, international education is often reserved for favored families, who enrol their children in private and expensive schools. With the creation of local public schools for international education, I propose to give the public education service a stronger international dimension and to create locomotives for the entire school system, because it is all our schools and institutions that will thus make progress in the teaching of foreign languages. These poles will enable students from all backgrounds and backgrounds to benefit from this dynamic and to become even more open to Europe and the world. We will have assembled two virtues: international openness and social mix. The school of the Republic can thus remain faithful to its mission to give the best and most up-to-date to each of its children. I know that we will all pay particular attention to this. The school of the Republic is the common home of all young people in France. As such, it must bring to all students, wherever they are on the territory, in the hexagon as well as overseas, the same chance to succeed and the same desire to seize this opportunity. In this regard, the text we are looking at is resolutely a text of trust in the territories – in their ability to innovate, experiment and organize themselves according to constraints that can vary from place to place while respecting the national framework. These small homelands that make the big one, it is the history of the French school. It is therefore up to the State to ensure fairness between territories by giving more to those in need. We are doing this now for priority education and rural school, but also for ultramarine territories. I would like to point out that this bill creates a full-fledged rectorate in Mayotte, which needs the support of the national community so much. This equity policy is aimed particularly at the most fragile territories. But what applies to the territories also applies to the students. As you know, we are reflecting on the evolution of priority education, so that it does not leave any difficulty or fragility. We are also leading it about students between the ages of 16 and 18 who have – perhaps the word is not the best – "hungry" in the system. That is why, through parliamentary discussions and in accordance with our plan to combat poverty, the requirement to train between 16 and 18 years of age will also be discussed in this bill. I will conclude by evoking the customization of the routes and one of his strongest illustrations. We must indeed offer all our students a more personalized course, in order to take account of each other's talents and difficulties. This is what we do when we implement the "work done" program at the college, the personalized courses designed to integrate the desires and particularities of each individual or the inclusive school that aims to take into account the specificities of students with disabilities. I wanted to conclude by referring to this point – which, as you know, appears in today's news with the conclusion of the wide-ranging consultation on inclusive school in recent months – in order to mark the essential character it holds for me. Much has been done, but the challenge remains immense, because we need to change our perspective on the difference and succeed in transforming our organizations. Our ambition is clear: to ensure that all children whose disability is diagnosed – today there are 340,000 in our school system – are cared for as quickly and, above all, as efficiently as possible. The proposed lever is new: to make a major public service of disability emerge at school, with the creation of 80000 posts of public officials distributed within different poles throughout the territory and who, in all circumstances, on school and out-of-school time, accompany children with disabilities. As we said this morning with Sophie Cluzel, it is a matter of offering children, whenever necessary, support and real follow-up, but also of ensuring greater stability of the staff concerned and better training of teachers and assistants, as well as better anticipation, thanks to the new career that we open to these 80000 agents. It is therefore a new stage in the inclusive school that will open from the start of the 2019 school year. Here too, parliamentary debates, as a follow-up to our recent discussions, must enable us to incorporate the necessary provisions into the law. I stress that I have come to you with this bill, not with something definitely established, but with provisions that are ready to be enriched with different contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u13	This is already the case, as evidenced by the work done in committee. This will certainly be done in the context of the work that we are going to do in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to build a true project of society, which promotes a society that is more harmonious, proud of its values, confident in the future, open to the world, proudly carrying French universalism, nourishing itself with the traditions of our territories, but also with our aspirations to define the future, a society where we add our differences instead of subtracting them, where we can unite when the essentials are at stake, where we respect ourselves in the framework of the republican fraternity, which is the main masterpiece of our social contract. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] Through this project, ladies and gentlemen, we wish to give our children roots and wings, to make them feel the pride of being citizens of France and the pride of being themselves. Then we will be able to believe in our destiny, because we will have prepared that of our children on the only basis that is valid: that of freedom, equality and fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u14	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u15	The text we are going to examine contains 25 articles, which deal with such essential subjects as compulsory education at 3 years, teacher training, experimentation or evaluation of schools. On all these subjects, the key word is "trust": trust in the school by families, trust in the future by students, trust in the institution by teachers and vice versa. The title of this bill – "for a school of trust" – has aroused many comments, some ironically saying that trust was not achieved...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u17	... the others, that this was a concept that was too vague and unprescriptive. We, the deputies of the Republic on the move, believe that trust is not a vain word...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u18	That's what Balladur said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u19	... and its aim is to irrigate the entire education system at all levels. For many years, despite tremendous successes, the school has been experiencing a crisis of confidence: social elevator in a breakdown, difficulties in remedying inequalities, physical and sometimes institutional violence, poor results in PISA surveys – an international programme for monitoring pupils' achievements – and loss of attractiveness in the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u20	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u21	In this context, I am convinced that every effort must be made to renew the pact of trust between the actors and to strengthen the contract between the nation and its school. Trust is first and foremost the one that every family must be able to place in school. This is the Republican promise of equal opportunities. That is why we want to lower the age of compulsory education to 3 years to put all children on the same starting line in our country. Because, as we know, our education system is one of the most unequal in the world. The causes, we know them: it is often early inequalities, which settle from an early age. Some people are asking us to give up this provision, which they believe would be of no use, on the pretext that more than 97 per cent of children are already in school between the ages of 3 and 6. For our part, we estimate that 26,000 students away from school are not nothing, especially when we know that they are the most disadvantaged. Beyond that, what we want is to strengthen, strengthen and devote kindergarten. Kindergarten must be taken seriously and made the school of development and language, in other words, the driving force in the fight against inequality. Because it completes the republican work initiated by Jules Ferry in 1882, continued by Jean Zay in 1936 and by General de Gaulle in 1959, the law "for a school of trust" is indeed a reform of social justice. Can we go further? A recent INED study – the National Institute for Demographic Studies – confirms the importance of inequalities in early childhood and alerts us to those that affect the poorest children even before kindergarten. In the same vein, the poverty plan calls for comprehensive care for children aged 0 to 6 and the building of bridges between the world of early childhood and the world of school, while institutional division between these two worlds is an obstacle to the continuous care of children and their families. I will propose amendments aimed at laying the first stones of this project, which I believe is still before us. Trust is also what we want to give to actors on the ground, staff, students and their families, mayors, associations and all those who commit themselves daily to the future of our young people, and therefore to the future of the country. First of all, we must trust teachers who, day after day and in sometimes difficult conditions, work to educate our children: it is on them that everything is based – on their dedication and professionalism which, I am not afraid to say, are often exemplary. It is this commitment that the aim of Article 1 is to recognise, which also aims to remind teachers of their respect. It is intolerable, for example, to see teachers assaulted as such, as was again the case last week in Grenoble and Béziers. In addition, this text gives them more freedom to innovate and experiment, as they are the ones who know the solutions most suited to the needs of the students. The text also provides for the reform of teacher training so that it fully meets their expectations and requirements in terms of quality and content. We must also trust the parents, who are the first educators of their children, and make them full members of the educational community, more so than they are now. The school would benefit from a greater reliance on them and an adult-to-adult relationship of trust for the benefit of the child. This text will allow them to become more involved, and this, from the first years – this is the whole issue. In addition, during the evaluation phase, and especially the self-assessment phase, parents will also have a say in the lives of their children in school. We also wanted to open the field of experimentation to the relationship between the school and the parents, in order to let the educational communities invent new ways of involving parents in the life of the institutions. Finally, we must trust the pupils, who are often the great forgotten of the texts on education, whereas they are the first concerned. Without demagogy and without seeking to speak at all costs on their behalf, they must be allowed to take a more active place in the life of the institution. They ask that they be listened to, that they be given a voice in the chapter on their living and studying conditions in an institution where they spend the clearest of their time. That is why, by an amendment tabled in committee, I have called for consultation of all students in all schools during the self-assessment phase of the schools. It seems to me all the more necessary to reaffirm the importance of the notion of trust, which is being observed today, far beyond school, with great distrust of both institutions and official words and of any holder of authority. I say it with a certain solemnity: we, who are involved in one way or another in matters of education, have an individual and collective responsibility towards our youth. We must be discerning in our positions and ensure that we do not participate in the spread of mistrust in the era of widespread suspicion. Let us go back, for example, to the controversy that arose from Article 1. I understand and share the commitment of teachers to their freedom of expression. But when the Council of State states in its opinion that this article has no direct normative scope, when the minister undertakes, before the Members, that it is not used to punish staff, when we ourselves vote in committee an amendment to remind that it does not introduce any new obligations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u22	Why put him in the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u23	... why persevere in this defiance which, in essence, is not based on anything and continue to say that Article 1 is intended to hinder the freedom of expression of teachers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u24	So, what's it for?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u25	It is still the defiance towards the school that manifests itself when some, here, see school attendance at the age of 3 as a threat to families and to the values they defend. This may seem surprising at first glance, but when we reread the school debates, we find that this mistrust has been manifested in the same way every time we have touched on compulsory school, accused by some of perverting our children's minds. I should like to quote Senator Charles Chesnelong, who, in the debate on Ferry laws, said that he was terrified of the idea of entrusting his children's souls to a school without conscience. Nevertheless, we are no longer in 1882. It is no longer a question of opposing family and school. While we believe in the emancipatory virtues of the Republican school, which allows every child to rise beyond the contingencies of his birth, we also fully trust children, their ability to discover the world and to question it without this being a threat to family-received education. It is this same feeling of distrust that we find vis-à-vis everything that the institution produces, as has been shown by the criticisms made during the debate on the new school evaluation board. I hear the question of independence, raised repeatedly, but is that really the central issue? What matters most, it seems to me, is objectivity, that is, the scientific and indisputable nature of the work carried out by this new body.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u26	We're not there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u27	Therefore, as rapporteur, I will table amendments to ensure that the assessment of establishments is objective, in line with the best international standards and transparent, so as to give rise to scientific debates, nourished and, where appropriate, contradictory with researchers. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, it is this same mistrust that is at work when we are accused of not taking disability into account. We must recognize that we have never done so much about disability as we have done since the beginning of this quinquennium. We do not have the right to use this subject for political purposes. On the road to trust, ladies and gentlemen, we must lead the way and be exemplary, engaging in substantive, constructive and good-faith debates on all subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u28	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to pay tribute to the work that has already been done by Members of all sensitivities in committee, as well as to the work of the administrators, whose assistance has been very valuable. This work has made it possible to enrich the text on several essential points. I have no doubt that the examination in session will allow us to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u30	Mrs Fannette Charvier, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u31	For the past 20 years, French educational policy has led to a totally paradoxical observation, marked by a permanent growth in the budget allocated to it – France devotes more financial resources to the school than most of its neighbours – and a decline in the results of our students in international rankings, particularly for the learning of mathematics. Many reports have concluded that these disappointing results are the result of a lack of investment in key areas of our education policy: primary education, support for students in difficulty, schools in disadvantaged areas and human resources. The policy pursued since the beginning of this quinquennium, whether through the "work done" system or the doubling of the classes of CP and EC1 in the priority education networks, is intended precisely to bring concrete and ambitious solutions to these problems. The bill "for a school of trust" provides a complementary solution, this time concerning teachers, because the quality of their training must be seen as the cornerstone of improving the performance of the education system. Well-trained teachers have all the cards in hand to flourish in their profession and pass on their knowledge to the students. For the past five years and the establishment of the higher schools of faculty and education – ESPE – a rich literature of general inspections, the national committee to follow up on teacher training reform, or the Senate, has found the strengths and weaknesses of the training provided by these schools. This problem of training, as it is raised today, was also raised during the hearings, both by the unions and by the various directorates-general of the Ministry, and even, in the field, by the teachers whom I have been able to meet, who confirmed this statistic according to which four out of ten secondary school teachers feel insufficiently prepared on the educational aspect of the profession: it is moreover the highest proportion of OECD member countries – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u32	Of course, you have removed the training!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u33	In response, the bill establishes a training framework for future INSPEs – higher national institutes of faculty and education – and thus a degree of homogenization across the country, which responds to criticisms of training that is too different from one ESPE to another. This training will focus on basic knowledge and will be provided by a greater number of field players, who are still in front of students. I would add that we cannot legitimately expect everything from an initial training of two years or even a year: it must therefore not be regarded as the alpha and the omega of teacher training, but must instead be part of a continuum of initial, continuing and continuous training, thus providing time adapted to the specific needs of each teacher, depending on what he or she lives in his or her classroom. Upstream of training, we are now facing a more global problem: the growing lack of attractiveness of the trade. The time when the teacher's career made young students dream is over. There is a shortage of candidates and the magnitude of the phenomenon needs to be seen: between 2005 and 2018, we lost almost half of the number of candidates in the school teacher recruitment competition, while the number of positions offered increased by almost 75%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u34	Increase the wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u35	There is a shortage of teachers in some academies, such as Créteil or Versailles, or in certain disciplines, such as mathematics or English.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u36	It's because of the point freeze!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u37	Focused on these deficit academies and disciplines, the new system of pre-recruitment must enable young students from modest backgrounds to consider long-term studies and thus gain access to the teaching and education professions. It gives concrete expression to a double ambition: to propose a gradual appropriation of the school environment and of the exercise of the profession, and to secure financially the trajectory until the contest, by removing the weight of the financial constraint. The scheme will replace, in the long term, that of apprentice teacher students, whose weaknesses it corrects, in particular by allowing the accumulation of wages and scholarships. Improvement of the education system is the task of the entire community, because when all the actors in education go in the same direction, the chances of success are greater. That is why part of the bill is devoted to innovation in order to adapt to local needs. Trusting the territories, giving them the hand to set up structures adapted to local needs, is also the school of trust, within a framework which, of course, the law and the regulations will define. France is one and indivisible, but it is also diverse, with problems that are not the same according to the territories. How can we ensure the success of all students, taking into account the different situations? The bill for a school of trust provides concrete answers to concrete situations, by securing in the law initiatives that already exist in our country and have proved their worth, and by allowing them to develop elsewhere, according to local needs and wills: without vertical taxation of the State, but on the contrary at the initiative of the territories and educational communities, and with a desire to provide framed solutions to local problems. This is the case for EPLEI: these local public institutions of international education, based largely on the provisions on the European school in Strasbourg, already contained in the Education Code, allow local authorities to have a tool for their development, by structuring international sections or European schools within the same institution. The aim is to accompany the development of the attractiveness of France and, particularly in the context of Brexit, to remove the obstacle, determining for families, of the lack of adequate schooling in the mother tongue of their children. At the same time, these schools can and should be accessible to French students from all walks of life. The aim of increasing the general level of pupils in languages is also already supported by other complementary measures, such as the teaching of a subject integrated with a foreign language, the teaching of the language and culture of origin, the bilingual and balance sheets classes, and the European and Eastern sections. The same logic prevails for public institutions of basic knowledge, the creation of which has been decided by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. Since 2010, many experiments have sought, through the joint work of a whole local educational community, to create a true continuity of learning from kindergarten to third, in order to avoid dropping out of school at the entrance to sixth grade. The educational interest of children is obviously to better articulate the transition between school and college, between the first and second degrees, to very different methods and requirements. In fact, the previous government was well inspired to extend cycle 3 from the CM1 to the sixth, already revealing the need for better pedagogical continuity. Here again, the competent local authorities – departments and communes – as well as the educational communities – are given a certain degree of latitude to take advantage of the opportunity of such a project and to decide on the degree of its integration: a network which is set up between the college and the attached schools, the sharing of premises or sports facilities, the cross-interventions of teachers who will be able to make use of the other structures of their field of expertise, until a complete integration with a grouping on the same site of the first and second degrees where this will be considered relevant. This logic of adaptation to the territories is also reflected in the creation of the Rectorate of Mayotte, which is integrated in the broader and more comprehensive perspective of the action plan for the future of the Mahorais, announced by the Minister of Overseas Affairs last May. Mayotte thus incorporates the common law linked to the départementization of the island, even if certain characteristics remain, such as the competence of the school building, which remains within the competence of the State, given the importance of the investments still to be made. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] "Every child we teach is a man we win," said Victor Hugo; For Nelson Mandela, "Education is the most powerful weapon to change the world." What is certain is that, in a complex world where everything goes too fast, in an individualistic society plagued by social doubt and tension, education appears as a foundation that we bequeath to succeeding generations to understand the past, face the present and build the future. The school must live with its time. It must know how to reinvent itself constantly, take advantage of new technologies and adapt to children who are not all the same and to different local realities. It must ignore the temptations of conservatism, while remaining faithful to the values and ambitions that underlie it. It's tomorrow's school. It's the school of trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u38	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u39	A priority building for the majority's electoral programme in parliamentary elections, national education has been the focus of our attention for almost two years. In the National Assembly, we voted up budgets for the two finance bills we studied on these benches and the national education budget remains the first of the Nation. We also passed the law of 13 April 2018, known as the Gatel law, strengthening the control of private schools out of contract at the time of their opening. In addition, our committee has carried out numerous evaluation and monitoring work: flash missions on the relations between parents and the school, on the de-schooling, on the prevention of radicalisation, on the management of the precocity and associated disorders, on the directors of schools, mission on the school in the digital society and two missions on the conditions of the course of the school year in Martinique, Guadeloupe, Mayotte and La Réunion, not to mention the budgetary opinions given each year. I thank our two rapporteurs for the work done on the text that we are going to discuss this week. For your part, Minister, I will not exhaustively identify all the projects that you have undertaken since your appointment. Between the challenge with the communities, whose commitment I want to stress here, to ensure that in the most disadvantaged areas, throughout the national territory, in the city and in the countryside, our children can learn to read, write and count to twelve students per class, the reform of the baccalaureate and high school, which allows each young person to better choose his or her subjects and to better prepare himself or herself for the new requirements of society in terms of knowledge, know-how and know-how, digital for example, and the investment in accompaniment after school, with the device "Duties made", you have activated certain levers to stop the drop-out of our school in the international rankings, which has done more than alert us: it alarmed us. For the place of France, but also for what we owe to the younger generations and to the staff of the Ministry of National Education, in the first place to the 800,000 teachers, our determination to do better is intact. You are now submitting legislation for a school of trust. The spirit of distrust seems so well established in France that the school has in this situation, if not its share of responsibility, at least a significant role to play for the future. It seems fair to me, minister, that you dedicate the title and clause 1 of your bill to it. I will not go back to all the articles and provisions, as you and the rapporteurs have presented them brilliantly. I am pleased to see the discussion focus on levers that have been lacking in recent decades. I will distinguish three of them, essential to me. First of all, the pre-recruitment of teachers represents a major step forward, expected for many years, which you accompany with a re-engineering of the training. Secondly, the possibility of creating local international public institutions more easily is a fundamental step forward, at a time when we must consolidate the European integration process: for many of them, modern languages are not more foreign, because they are those of our European fellow citizens. We will ensure, Minister, that this faculty is at the service of as many people as possible. The third lever is to increase the flexibility of the institutions to conduct experiments in many areas, such as the daily rhythms that give a greater place to sport, which you mentioned with Mrs Roxana Maracananu, Minister of Sport. I shall end my remarks here, not without being congratulated, as chairman of the committee, on the spirit and level of the debates we have had in committee. Some amendments have been adopted – eighty-two out of five hundred – and others are being discussed for the forthcoming debate and some will be discussed for the first time. I wonder, however, that we have studied five hundred amendments in committee, but that a thousand were tabled for the public sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u40	There's plenty of government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u41	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We must collectively consider our role and work in committee, while eighty-two amendments have been adopted. I stress once again the quality of our debates and look forward to those we are going to have this week.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u42	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group a motion of rejection in advance, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u43	Minister, during the committee review of this bill for a school of trust, you basically said that education had to reach consensus and that there was nothing political. If I am not surprised, I must admit that I was stunned by this statement, which contradicts Mr Macron's statement. When he announced compulsory education at the age of three, he had rightly stated: "(..) there is always something eminently political in the noblest and deepest sense of the term, when we speak of education, because that is where we build the society that we have to do and want to see". Denying this lapalissade, Minister of National Education, is either a lack of ambition linked to a notable lack of vision for a school that should respond to the societal emergencies of today and tomorrow, or a hypocrisy, intended to mask, under an imbroglio of technical and heteroclite measures, the ideology that guides your policy. But it is very likely that this statement, like the entire policy of the Government, results from the two phenomena: a lack of vision due to ideological blindness. Let me once again reveal this ideology and recall its main characteristics: economic liberalism and its determined hostility to public service, coupled with the cult of profitability and efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u44	Big one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u45	In terms of school, this gives a "start-up education", whose titles in your bill, Minister, reflect the spirit and priorities: "guaranteeing basic knowledge for all", the least-so-called in terms of education and education; "Innovation to adapt to the needs of the territories", and not to adapt the pedagogy to young people who, among other things, are not predisposed to old forms of learning; "Improving the management of human resources", i.e. finding a resource adaptable to working conditions starting the most sincere vocations of these black hussars; "Simplification of the education system", i.e. by changing the territorial organization in order to reorganize it yourself, according to your accounting requirements. Of course, this start-up will have to strengthen the evaluation – that of students, teachers and institutions. In truth, under the guise of technicality, you are taking advantage of this bill, which makes education compulsory from the age of 3 – which we welcome – to unblock the organisation of the Republican school for the benefit of an organization that makes it possible to manage establishments and staff. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] In short, you are inspired by the philosophy of the CAP22 report, which aims to achieve budgetary savings and transform public action into private action: this is what you use as a compass for this bill. It is no longer a matter of degreasing the mammoth, but of accelerating its bleeding to asphyxiation. In your schools, minister, they're all choking. Do you know that? Do you know the reality of your schools?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u46	We mustn't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u47	I am not talking about the fact that your employees and the prefectural offices prepare your official travels and visits, or the fact that the experts' reports are sweetened and asepticated. Knowing from the felted salons of your beautiful ministry is one thing, testing the daily lives of educational communities is another. Let me paint the picture. First of all, you are in turn inflicting on teachers, already stunned by the successive reforms of each new minister, your reform of the high school and the baccalaureate. They turn it around, according to their own terms. To blindly take charge of the orientation of pupils, to evaluate them perpetually – by skill, by discipline, by note, by letter –, to share between several institutions because of the decrease in overall hourly allocations and the complexity of the schedules imposed by the reforms, to adapt to the umpteenth rarely feasible change of programme, to ensure that meeting hours are not over and finally to face, more and more often, alone and in silence, the social and behavioural difficulties of some young people – more and more young – in increasingly overcrowded classes: this is their daily life. And to thank them for so much flexibility and adaptability, you freeze their point of index and add a day of deficiency. Then we have to talk about the students. As you know, Minister, there are more and more people who find no sense or interest in this school. They are as inadequate as it is, unless it is the other way around. To these drop-outs, silent or noisy, it offers few solutions, little accompaniment and few alternative solutions, if not disciplinary advice and security measures, such as video surveillance introduced in two high schools in southern France. In this regard, we know Mr. Estrosi's security fantasies. But you yourself, minister, do you validate this step forward to a totalitarian control company?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u48	Totalitarian?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u49	During the examination of the text in committee, you rejected all our proposals for experimentation in the field of education. On the other hand, you give free rein to the delusions of the safe right. Where are, rather, school life staff, social workers, psychologists in national education and teachers in sufficient numbers? Where is this human presence so indispensable to help young people and their families, and to relieve teachers? Does your blindness also make you deaf to the legitimate demands of the educational community, whose reality I have just recalled? On February 5, during the mobilization of the interprofessional trade union movement, I read on the banners of the national education staff slogans calling for the increase of wages, the catching up of purchasing power blocked since the year 2000 – it has decreased by 40% in 20 years – and the hiring of staff instead of the abolition of posts foreseen in your 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u50	They're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u51	You will say that the unions are eternal grinches who defend only themselves. Not really! At the general academic assemblies, held at the end of January throughout France, their demands greatly exceeded the defence of their own interests. For example, they also call for the withdrawal of Parcoursup and the law on the guidance and success of students, as well as the repeal of the reforms of the baccalaureate and high school. They denounce the spirit of these reforms, which consist of locking up young people so early – from the age of 15 – in educational ruts that will deny them access, if they change their mind, to certain higher education courses. They discover, if needed, the unequal character of this high school à la carte, which will not offer the same menu to all students. They are indignant at the lack of readability of the reform and the lack of resources to implement it. As for this bill, they are also asking for its rejection, which I have the honour to express here. Minister, I understand your way of ignoring their warnings and expertise. However, the bill for a school of trust succeeded in setting up against it almost all the trade unions represented in the Higher Council of Education. "It is the old world that resists," you will say again. Well, no! These same claims are in fact carried by another movement, outside the classical trade union framework: the movement of "red pens". Some of their testimonies are upbuilding. One of them says: "We pay from our pocket plasticizers, cartridges for printers, books... Give us the means to buy equipment! How can we not see here a similarity with other officials, who are also forced to buy their own work equipment? However, your Government is less prepared to respond to the grievances of teachers, who are among the lowest paid, in comparison with their colleagues in OECD member countries, for a longer time of instruction and more overloaded classes. You do not listen to educational staff, neither in national representative bodies, nor when they walk on the street. So you force them to choose other forms of action. Thus, in my constituency, the Olympe de Gouges high schools, in Noisy-le-Sec, and Jean Renoir, in Bondy, have been on continuous strike since Tuesday, February 5. In Toulouse, 130 teachers have resigned from their responsibilities as principal teachers: they do not want to support the implementation of a significant part of your reform of the high school aimed at entrusting them with the guidance of the students, provided so far by the psychologists of the national education and the IOC – information and guidance centres – which you respectively removed and closed, even though orientation becomes your priority at the same time as a real puzzle. These teachers cry out for despair, not only in the face of the deterioration of their own working conditions, but also of those of their students and in the future that you reserve for them. Moreover, the latter also understood what sauce they were going to be devoured by the ruthless sorting machine you are building. They mobilized last spring on this issue. With unprecedented repression, the government of which you are a member has implemented a security law to crack down on violent gangs in order to control the democratic ambitions of our youth. Are these the methods of the benevolent school and the accompaniment to democratic learning? Is it through humiliation, as in Mantes-la-Jolie, that you think you are preparing young people for democracy? Is it tear gas and flashball that you intend to muzzle their protest? Ten days ago, in fact, one of these weapons crushed the foot of a young union representative you know well, Minister: this is Louis Boyard. In this regard, Mr Castaner called into question what happened, thus conveying fake news on fake news.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u52	In French in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u53	Finally, is it by means of endless identity checks, detentions at the limit of legality and indictments of minors that you think they are critical? I would like to remind you of the results of the arrests carried out last May at Arago High School: 102 high school students parked for eight hours in two police buses, without eating, drinking or being able to go to the toilet. Some parents were not informed of the detention of their minor child until 15 hours after his arrest. The mobilizations resumed in December, in the form of blockages, still causing as little listening and prohibitions on the right of assembly. Always the same bullies and the same Orwellian delusions! To say that this government has supported, like virtually all members of this assembly, a bill against the ordinary violence of spanking! Authoritarian, unequal and austere, this is the spirit of your past reforms and policy, as well as that of this bill. Authoritarian, he is first by his method. It is without consultation, in fact, that you agree to introduce, at the turn of an amendment, the creation of public institutions of basic knowledge, i.e. "schools of the base", which at all events push the school organisation. From now on, nursery and primary schools will be able to merge with their connecting college, thus forming educational superstructures: after factory hospitals, factory schools! We are absolutely not opposed to profound changes in the organization of the education system – on the contrary – as long as they are at the service of learning and well-being at school. However, no evaluation of the experiments already carried out on the foundation school, and therefore no certainty, can confirm the pedagogical relevance of such an organisation, aimed at facilitating the transition from primary to secondary school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u55	In fact, you are concerned only with the pooling of resources. It doesn't matter to you the desertion of public educational institutions in rural areas, about which the educational community and the Association of Rural Mayors of France alert you. You don't know the importance of proximity. You have little interest in the fate of school principals, these school teachers who will become administrative sub-fiftres of the principals of colleges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u56	Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Ouch!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u57	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u58	Moreover, they may be recruited contractually, as provided for in section 15 of this bill, authoritarian by its method, but also on the merits. In this regard, article 1 sets the tone. Welcome to the school of trust, which extends the reserve duty of management in your administration to teachers, who will now have to demonstrate "commitment" and "exemplarity" in order to "contribute to the establishment of the bond of trust that must unite students and their families with the public service of education." What do you mean? Any contestation or criticism of your policy or institution, even on social media, would therefore be punishable? You promised that Article 1 would be rewritten. In fact, you have simply guaranteed respect for the jurisprudence on the status of civil servants. Similarly, what confidence is there when the bill provides for the ministry's control over the evaluation of its own policy? With Article 9, you create a new assessment body – the school's assessment board – composed of twelve people, ten of whom will be chosen by you or represent you. Have we ever seen the assessor choose his assessor?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u59	On this point, she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u60	World premiere!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u61	If there was a need to broaden assessments, especially those measuring territorial inequalities – the text itself recognizes the existence of these – why not have them entrusted to the CNESCO – National School System Evaluation Board – which is an independent body – perhaps too much? – because of its composition. In this regard, what will happen to the research component of this organization, whose work, which is too often unknown, is still fuelling reflection and the necessary debate on the school? You tell us that it will be transformed into a chair to be created at the CNAM – Conservatoire national des arts et métiers. Can you specify the resources allocated to this Chair? Indeed, we fear that this will be a way of burying these activities permanently. Always authoritarian and centralizing, you operate by ordinance the territorial redevelopment of academic districts and deconcentrated services, as well as the simplification, redefinition and adaptation of the organization, operation and powers of the councils of national education. This will give you full free hands to manage the school organization according to your business logic, which is that of rationality. It is not until the experiments – which, to date, have been the subject of a single validation by the academic authorities – that you did not wish to control by decree. Funny trust that the one that leads you to decide everything and centralize everything at the same time when, at the same time, you create differentiations everywhere, with the exception of teacher training, that you want – and that is common sense – to homogenize. Instead of giving everywhere the means of excellence and diversity of pedagogical experiments, your logic is to create different institutions and specificities everywhere, hence inequalities, especially territorial ones. It's probably that scatter you want to control. But he ignores the foundations of our republican school, which one – should we remind him? – must ensure equal access to education, i.e. access for all to the diversity of teaching and teaching tools. With your reforms, we are moving away from this principle. With the reform of the high school, each school will have its own specialties. This will also be the case for the famous schools in the basement, which I have already mentioned. Depending on whether they live in the country or in the city, not all students will be accommodated in the same school. Some will be schooled in large educational cities far away from home, while others will be schooled in and around human scale schools. In another way, the establishment of international schools provided for in Article 6 is in line with this logic. You recognize the possibility of creating schools of excellence for some, instead of ensuring excellence everywhere, as we ask. By gravitating in the marble of the law this extreme inequality, which already exists – I recall that 80% of the students of the Polytechnic come from only ten high schools – you are aggravating the situation. That's for inequality. Let's go to austerity. The austere obsession – which you share with your predecessors – prevents you from thinking of lasting and effective solutions to the crisis of vocations that it itself has created, and which now poses recruitment problems. Yet this is a major axis. Your budget, which is difficult to negotiate with Bercy, does not allow teachers to raise their salaries, strengthen their status, or open enough posts. Then you endorse by law what is already being done: the situation of teaching young educational assistants who would be dedicated to teaching, but who are barely trained and qualified for it. These young people paid for the launcher will be able to provide replacements or even fill vacancies as soon as the licence is issued. It's not serious. For our part, we prefer another form of pre-recruitment: as soon as we enter university, young people who are destined for faculty will be paid to train and will be able to practice teaching under the control – and exclusively under the control – of experienced staff. In this spirit of liberal human resources management, you open the possibility of recruiting out-of-status contractors from all profiles: education staff, psychologists, heads of institutions. What guarantee of homogeneity in profiles, what security do you bring? For more than 20 years, the number of contractors has been increasing; You're making it a principle. Minister, I am telling you without a doubt: your measures, your reforms, and this bill are indeed organizing a school in the image of today's society – a two-tiered school: one that will be that of "excellence", the other that will collect the left-over.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u62	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u63	It is not the society of tomorrow to which we aspire, but rather to be both democratic, ecological and socially just. To do this, the school must enable everyone, of course, to acquire the basic knowledge. But it must also foster a lively and curious, critical and civic spirit; It must form future citizens who have the taste for initiative and autonomy rather than future machines to produce, consume and obey; Finally, of course, it must train future qualified professionals. This school at the service of the development and training of our youth cannot be content with an accounting and narrow horizon. Our counter-budget – which does not avoid the financial problem – would broaden this horizon. In order not to confine ourselves to a protestary posture, we will also be a very credible proposal force. Here are some of these proposals, which outline an alternative path. A fully republican school is first and foremost a school that makes equality for all an imperative of every moment. First of all, we must reaffirm the principle of free of charge, for example by extending it to school supplies and teaching materials, as well as the principle of neutrality: it is now absurd to impose Microsoft in our schools, while the development of free software allows a new relationship to knowledge. Access to the school must be guaranteed to all: it is scandalous that children with disabilities can see their school career upset for this reason alone. In addition to the conditions of physical accessibility, there is a need for human support; Now, between your promises and your actions, there is still a gulf. Let me pay tribute here to the tenacity of the staff accompanying students with disabilities – AESH – who are now abandoned and despised. We proposed to create a real status for them: it was retold. But an accessible school is also a pleasant school, where the best conditions for learning and the free development of each student's faculties are met. By doubling the classes of CP, then CE1, your priority, you admit that there is a clear correlation between the number of students per class and the ambition of success for all. Overcrowded classes are, in fact, less attentive pupils, a less regular and less personalized follow-up of the student, a teacher who struggles to assume his authority and to ensure his courses in complete peace. That is why we propose that classes of twenty pupils be tested in nursery and primary schools, as well as in vocational and technological lycées; This threshold will be increased to 25 students per class for general secondary schools. I would now like to dwell on a largely forgotten part, when it is not openly despised, of our national education: that of the professional sector. It is necessary to develop vocational education in school status, not under the authority of the Ministry of Labour: the pupil, even in apprenticeship, should not be regarded as an employee as another, or even as a more corvetable and less costly employee than another.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u64	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u65	It is in this spirit that we proposed the proscription of night work, its prohibition being the fruit of a long conquest: retraced proposal! In addition, the development of these fields, which prepare the indispensable technicians of tomorrow, requires, on the back of what you propose, to maintain sufficient general education, which gives every pupil a solid general culture. Where can we talk about these issues, Minister? The third focus of our proposals for school to be in line with the challenges of the 21st century is training, awareness-raising and education on climate emergencies and ecological transition. France, whose maritime sector is the second largest in the world, must be able to play its strengths and drive a considerable investment and training effort. To this end, we propose that each coastal department have a secondary school specifically dedicated to the professions of the sea, in order to anticipate and support the transformation of our productive model. Just as in the 19th century it was necessary for the Republic to show extraordinary voluntarism in order to disseminate its principles to all segments of the population, so we must now work to make the desire to preserve an ecosystem compatible with human life germinate in all consciences, because if our productive model must change, as well as our consumption model, if we must prevent the culture of disposable, accelerated obsolescence and standardized and aseptic products, then we must prepare our youth there. It is therefore essential to develop ecological teachings, and to promote food education everywhere in order to combat junk food. [[Approvals on the benches of the FI group – Walls on the benches of the LR group]] But to this instruction by speaking, the school will have to add experience, ensuring the material conditions for a true equality of access to a healthy, varied and quality diet. To do this, the canteen must become organic at all levels, to fight a habit that comes in particular from an all-azimut advertising baton to which the youngest are particularly vulnerable. Ensuring a vegetarian dish for all is a concern to reduce our meat consumption, and therefore global warming. The final part of our proposals deals with the learning of democracy. At a time when individualism and mercantilism seem to be taking precedence over any form of collective commitment – and increasingly repressed – we want to make high school the antechamber of democracy in our society. That is the meaning of a bill that I have tabled and whose provisions I have translated into amendments. When one discovers the existing high school democratic bodies – at the high school level, at the academy or at the national level – one understands that the high school students and the teaching community abandon them. How can students want to engage if they are only consulted for the form, if their ideas are not retained, or only on subjects very at the margin, very secondary? We therefore propose to establish a co-presidency of each high school body: a high school elected and the principal, a high school elected and the rector, a high school elected and the minister. We will also propose the participation of an elected high school student in the educational project of his institution and in the Higher Council of Programmes, the consultation of the academic councils of high school life in each bill emanating from the Ministry of National Education and the transparency of the debates in the National Council of High School Life. Training is also essential for any form of democracy. How can students participate in the life and functioning of a high school if they do not understand the functioning of a budget or the legal responsibilities of each other? We propose to make it compulsory for high school students to have half-days devoted to the role of the board of high school life and to the understanding of the operation of a high school. Similarly, in order to encourage the involvement of the educational community, we propose that high school democracy be addressed in the training of all future educational staff. We will also propose to flatten the funding of the unions, to establish new ways of obtaining permission for meetings of high school students and to give a legislative existence to the houses of high school students, in order to enable them to flourish. Finally, we have tabled a whole series of amendments promoting and facilitating the right of expression, in full autonomy. Minister, in conclusion, I would like to go back to the title of your law: as usual, it is pure novlangue. How can we trust you when 60% of the 332 Ariegean municipalities already have no schools? How can I trust you when I find confirmed yesterday, in the press, that the duplication of the CE1 for next year will not take place everywhere, especially in my department of Seine-Saint-Denis, yet faced with so many difficulties and obvious inequalities? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the SOC group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party calls for the rejection of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u66	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u67	Constance and consistency: these two qualities seem to me fundamental to any political formation and we must apply them here. There is consistency in the will of the Republican Group to find concrete solutions to strengthen the school of the Republic. We do not want to be just an opposition force, but to make concrete and operational proposals – all the more so as the text does not have the ambition of its title. We also have coherence, and I will say a word about it just now, by going back to our collective obligation to legislate on this major issue that is committed to the future and on which the French will not allow any renunciation or contortion. Do not take the opportunity, here and today, to express ourselves on the educational model we want for our children, to mark our differences, but also to agree on some fundamentals if you accept – why not? – Some of our proposals would be irresponsible and contrary to what I mentioned earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group will therefore not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand, which, unfortunately, and as an eternal signature, has poured too much into the caricature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u68	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u69	The bill for a school of trust deals with a subject that matters to us all, and that puts us in line with the struggles of our elders for an accessible school, a factor of socialization and emancipation for all the children of the Republic. It is at school that the present and future of the students are largely determined. In addition, the school is also an educational community that opens up to its environment and seeks the well-being of all its members. However, our school has a little difficulty in fulfilling its mission. It is now necessary to revisit, reinvigorate and equip it with benchmarks more adapted to the reality of the twenty-first century. We discussed this bill in committee and generally agreed on the point of lawmaking and on the proposed text. Some provisions need to be debated, but the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement believes that there is no justification for referral back to committee or for prior rejection of this text. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let us work together and trust the social and legislative debate to bring about an intelligent transformation of the school system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u70	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u71	You assured us, minister, that, unlike your predecessors, you would not be at the origin of a great law designed to mark your mandate. From this point of view, we are not disappointed, as much as the text you propose to us looks like a tote, combining very disparate provisions. Behind your profession of faith in favor of a school of trust is an educational project that the Socialists and related groups consider retrograde and dangerous for the future. Moreover, your text, concocted in total opacity and without any consultation, raises great concerns and criticisms on the part of all actors in the educational community. You want to build confidence, but it is a mistrust that you have to talk about when you go over Parliament by overuse of orders. You restrict the freedom of expression of teachers by imposing article 1, yet disapproved by the Council of State. You are deleting the independent assessment body that has proven its worth in replacing it with a council that will be submitted to you, because of its composition; You want, more generally, to profoundly transform the school by imposing a culture of permanent evaluation, which will place students in difficulty in their apprenticeships, and will ultimately encourage competition from schools, to the detriment of a real evaluation of the arrangements put in place. You display an assumed will to step and vertical control of the school; You supervise the governance of ESPEs and reform the initial training of teachers, so as to transform students into low cost teachers, on the pretext of pre-professionalisation. I could list all the gaps in your text, but I won't have time. However, I will give three examples: nothing about schooling for children under the age of three, which is crucial to combating social inequalities; nothing about what you're thinking about to stop violence in school; nothing about inclusive school, and it is not the measures you announced today that will convince us of your ambition in this area. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Minister, because your project cannot be reduced to a disconnection from the 2013 Refoundation Act, because the school you draw is less trust than that of obedience and control, the Socialist and Related Group will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u72	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u73	The IUD Group, Action and Independents, generally in favour of the bill, will vote against this motion to reject it beforehand. We look forward to discussions, among others, on school inclusion. As we have been debating this subject for several months, it is time for the outcome of our discussions to materialize into concrete provisions. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LaREM groups]] Now we want to discuss what will make our school tomorrow – which we hope will be the school of trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u74	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u75	My colleague and friend Sabine Rubin expressed things well. I sum them up in two words. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Minister, you name your project the school of trust – a funny expression. But I take you to the word: where does the mistrust come from today? The doubt which has settled in many of our fellow citizens about public school, this most precious asset, the foundation of the Republic, which materializes for many French people our great republican principles comes from the fact that, in many cases, our teachers who work under very harsh conditions, have seen, especially since 1983, their pay and working conditions deteriorate. Do you answer that? No. Are you catching up with the freeze on the point of index, which caused our teachers to lose purchasing power? No. Do you equip yourself with a meaningful hiring plan to ensure that, in the event of absenteeism, institutions can meet their needs as quickly as possible? No. On the contrary, you propose to use students. As my colleague has said, you are a teacher.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u76	Let's not exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u77	Do you really think that you will restore trust in this way? Yes, you're precautioning the teaching profession. We are open to the help of students in schools and we have not waited for you on this point, but we have understood that, given the lack of resources, you intend to generalize this situation and place less educated and, of course, less paid people in educational situations. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Secondly, the problem comes from a mode, which has been in place for years, aimed at creating competition between establishments. She sees regular rankings among establishments in many magazines that make them their cabbages. The public school is then only a magma, a leopard's skin of institutions, some of which are successful, others of failures. Will you provide an answer to that? No: you answer with the word "experience". What is needed between institutions is equality. "Freedom, equality, fraternity" is inscribed on the front page of our schools, not "freedom, experiment, fraternity". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Your experiment is the dislocation of national education. That is why we are in favour of rejecting your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u78	You can say the same thing without yelling!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u79	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u80	After Mrs Sabine Rubin, who spoke of George Orwell, I too have the feeling, minister, – and perhaps you will see a compliment – that you have become a master in Orwellian communication, both the words that you speak to defend this bill are far from the facts and the text itself. In particular, you have spoken of "promoting social justice", when we find on the menu of this bill pressures on the free expression of teachers, a new international school modeled for the children of Brexiters, a guardianship of the evaluation of educational policies and an empowerment of the Government to re-shape the organization of metropolitan academies by ordinances. You prefer to choose a policy to manage the shortage rather than seriously address yourself to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession and to combat inequalities, or to seek to raise the level, with a quality pre-recruitment. Mr.Minister, we could recognize ourselves in some of the words you have spoken to introduce your bill, but they are so far removed from the realities and treatments that you are proposing that the Democratic and Republican Left group will be happy to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u81	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u82	The Liberties and Territories Group supports the commitments and objectives of this bill, which are common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u83	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u84	During the debate, we will have the opportunity to express our questions and opinions, those of some of my colleagues who differ from mine on a few articles. Overall, however, I do not see the extent to which we could oppose these common sense objectives. Let us be clear that the functioning of our national education, which the world envys us, is strengthened from year to year. If an administration remains privileged in our country, it is indeed national education, in particular through the creation of posts and the evolution of the school system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u85	It is rather by the abolition of the posts that it stands out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will return to this bill in the course of the debate. We really cannot support this motion of prior rejection, whose caricatural arguments give the impression of an ideology flung on a text that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u87	Your arguments, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u88	How can we see in this text the illustration of a devastating liberalism in our country? How can we argue that it will disrupt our education system? We still have the impression that, on some of the benches in this House, Members spend their time layering all-fact arguments on legislation that has nothing to do with them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREMet UDI-Agir groups]] That is why we will oppose this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u89	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u90	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Why make a motion of rejection, if not to delay the necessary progress? For our part, we believe that the school of trust must also be that of coherence, a coherence that you seem to be missing today. A rejection motion against compulsory schooling from 3 years old? However, this was part of Mr Mélenchon's presidential programme. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We don't just want to say it or write it down. We want to do this, and to make this measure operational by scratching it in the marble of the law, because it is also a measure of social justice, which consists of ensuring that all take the same start. After the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1, this is a new strong and ambitious sign. A motion to reject educational experiments? To oppose experimenting in the field of education and bringing up ideas from the field would be an aberration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u91	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u92	And without any evaluation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u93	A rejection motion against more appropriate and effective training? This must, however, encourage training of equal quality everywhere, connected, finally, to the realities of the field. A rejection motion against the creation of a rectorate in Mayotte? The Mahorese will appreciate it, because this rectorate will provide them with answers adapted to the realities of their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u94	Stop doing the lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u95	A motion to reject the establishment of local public schools of international education? What a pity to deprive ourselves of this locomotive and of this European or even international option! A motion to reject, finally, the pre-recruitment and expansion of the missions of the education assistants, while they must be a lever of attractiveness, also aimed at the least favoured students. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The school of trust is, for us, a school that moves forward. That is why the La République en marche group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u96	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u97	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 11 Against 59
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u98	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u99	Minister, in May 2017, a few days after you took office on Rue de Grenelle, you announced Urbi and Orbi: "There will be no Blanquer law, I will be proud of it. " It was probably a way to stand out, looking for the passage to scratch your predecessors, but between the intentions of departure and the actions, we observe a lag. So, eighteen months later, you, too, introduce your bill. What should we expect from this text: a recasting or simple adjustments? The President of the Republic set the tone on 5 December: "This important reform of the school is the very foundation of a real social justice policy. » [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] The text provides for a reduction in the age of compulsory education to 3 years, compared to 6 years at the beginning of 2019. This measure was not included in the programme of candidate Emmanuel Macron. On the other hand, the idea was defended with conviction by Mrs Najat Vallaud-Belkacem in 2016. It was taken up in the program of socialist candidate Benoît Hamon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u100	Holland, Macron: same fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u101	Looking at it closely, this bill is more dangerous than your falsely reassuring outings would have predicted so far. From his articles emerges a pile of supposedly technical measures, which in reality reflect profound reforms and a worrying desire to take over the entire education system – and all of this, of course, with the appearance of not touching it. We should first ask ourselves whether the constant reforms of the school curricula have enabled France to take off and raise the level of pupils. Studies on the level of French schoolchildren follow and are similar. From the international TIMMS survey in mathematics and science to the International Programme for Research in School Reading – PIRLS – and the International Programme for the Monitoring of Pupils' Achievements – PISA, several recent studies point to France's backwardness in relation to the best European results. France is the only country, with the Netherlands, to see its score decline since 2001, and is now ranked thirty-fourth out of fifty. In the EC1, 49% of pupils have difficulties in mental calculation and 47% have problems. In CP, 23% of students at the beginning of the year find it difficult to recognize the letters and the sound they produce, and 8% find it difficult to recognize the numbers dictated. At the end of the day, 20 per cent of students leave primary school without mastering fundamentals. At 15 years of age, 20 per cent of young people are now in school failure, compared to only 15 per cent in 2003. In total, according to the size of the cohorts, between 110,000 and 140,000 young people leave the school system each year without any degree or basic knowledge. Drop-out is therefore a major issue. Unfortunately, we can't hear you on this subject. This text is a missed opportunity in this regard. The work of the OECD is no more reassuring, since France achieves an average score, which is nonetheless poor for the fifth world economic power. For example, in mathematics, the score decreased by 16 points, bringing France from the group of countries above the OECD average to the group of countries below the average. More worrying: in France, while the number of highly performing pupils has remained the same, the number of pupils in difficulty is increasing. The gap is widening between high-performance and low-performance students. France is, in a way, saved by its good students. This school elite is also distinguished by an important correlation between socio-economic background and academic performance. In France, the socio-economic environment from which the students come particularly influences their performance. In hexagon, immigrant students are at least twice as likely as others to join the group of students in difficulty in mathematics – they are 43% at the lowest levels, compared to 16% in Australia and Canada. What about the Republican school promise? What about the social elevator? Your text, alas, does not meet these challenges and we will not let ourselves be fooled by Title I, which provides for "guaranteeing fundamental knowledge for all". During the examination of the text in committee, you presented Article 2, which provides for compulsory education at 3 years, as "an emblematic measure, the scope of which is international: we will be the country that sets the age of compulsory education the earliest in life. We are going to be scrutinized and I am confident that other countries will go in this direction because social justice goes through nursery school and better support for children between the ages of zero and six." We have therefore moved from "no Blanquer law" to an international measure! Minister, since you want better support for children aged 0 to 6, why stop at three? Mr Peillon, before you, wanted to propose schooling from the age of 2 – it is true that he had the ambition of "bringing the pupil to all determinisms", whether family, ethnic, social or intellectual. We strongly oppose this measure. For my political family, it is a marker: we hope that families will remain the first educators of their children and that the State will take care of education. You are going to oppose us that 97.7 per cent of children aged 3 are already going to school, with the enrolment rate approaching 100 per cent from the age of 4. However, a number of us consider that making education compulsory at this age is too coercive. Doubt yourself to this point of the school institution that you considered that persuasion will not suffice and that you must compel. That's strange! Schooling is compulsory from the age of 6. In our view, during the period of 3 to 6 years, families must be given the opportunity to decide – we have already discussed this issue. We are very committed to the freedom of choice of families. In addition, your proposal questions the relationship between the family sphere and the state sphere. We recall the indispensable role of parents in the education of the child, not to mention that they are the first educators of the child. To this extent we see a form of interference which we do not consider desirable at this age. As you can see, we would be the first country in the world to set up compulsory schooling at the age of three and other countries would follow our example. The comparative table on compulsory education in the impact assessment you provided for your draft law shows that Estonia or Finland, third and fifth respectively in the PISA classification, have set the age of compulsory education at 7 years, which shows that early education is not necessarily the guarantee of better academic success. For a moment I shall turn to the situation of disabled children, who are completely absent from the original text. You have made some corrections in committee, in particular by accepting one of my amendments to take into account the case of children with disabilities and their inclusion. However, out-of-school children include disabled children who cannot be accommodated because of the lack of life support – AVS – in schools, especially out-of-contract, and compliant buildings. What are you planning to take into account the situation of these children? Their parents suffer a double penalty: they may be forced to attend school in a school better suited to their disability, which causes additional costs, and they are not assured that their child will have an AVS. The requirement of education from 3 years will bring its lot of problems. In practice, such a provision does not take into account the pace of development of children, whose development is very uneven. Compulsory education will result in increased attendance constraints, while absenteeism or part-time attendance are currently tolerated in a large number of schools. Many parents who know the rhythm of their children and the fatigue caused by the school, especially in the early kindergarten years, choose to drop them there only in the morning, removing them in the afternoon to allow them to take a nap. Will the classes be adapted so that all students take a nap in the afternoon? The Defender of Rights makes a very strict observation on two points: the low level of supervision given the number of teachers in pre-primary education and the conditions for the reception of young children in collective spaces. I quote: "with an too high average of 22 students per teacher according to the 2015 data of the Oraganisation de coopération et de développement économiques (OECD), it seems difficult to offer children sufficient individual attention." We are just behind Chile and Mexico, where the average is 25, well above the EU average of 14. With regard to reception conditions, the Defender of Rights gives a very concrete example: "Entrance to kindergarten often goes hand in hand with the acquisition of cleanliness, which is not always completely controlled by the toddler. It can be seen, however, that sanitary facilities are often far from classrooms, or even relocated outside the building, to the back of the playground for example." It is planned to create 800 teaching posts to allow the measure to be created at the beginning of 2019. How will they be distributed? Isn't there a danger of overloading kindergarten classes even more? Some also fear that the teacher pool for replacements will be used to limit job creation. Is there not the risk of abolishing again and again jobs in rural areas, as Maxime Minot pointed out last week? This provision can be totally counterproductive, particularly in overseas countries, where only 70 per cent of 3-year-olds are enrolled in kindergarten. Without real investment, the arrival of the remaining 30% in class may disrupt learning, rather than favour it. Local authorities will also be affected: who says kindergarten, known as specialized territorial agents of kindergartens – ATSEM. Will additional resources be allocated to the local and regional authorities concerned to enable them to deal with this issue? The press points out that, in spite of you, you are reviving the school war between public and private. Indeed, if education becomes compulsory from the age of 3, the municipalities will necessarily have to finance nursery schools under contract so that education remains free – some municipalities already voluntarily provide assistance to private nursery schools under contract of association. In committee, Charles de Courson and I raised a number of issues. We would like to know what the actual incremental cost to the state and communities will be. Moreover, there will be inequalities between the communities since compensation will not be integral – it is the good students, the virtuous communes already provide funding, which will be penalized because it is the others who will receive the compensation from the State. What a paradox! But it is even more serious: according to the impact assessment – your data, minister – the compensations will be staggered by two years. The measure will come into effect in September, while compensation for the additional cost of the first school term 2019 will not be paid to communities until 2021, at best. Are you considering a provisional payment and a subsequent adjustment, in order to make costs coincide with compensation? The mayors want to know your intentions – it reminds the communes of bad memories. Will you, like some of your predecessors, be a minister of national education who decides, then asks the municipalities to pay? Article 5 is intended to regulate education in the family. Under the previous legislature, provisions had already been adopted under the Equality and Citizenship Act to exercise control over the matter. Among the reasons given for this measure, you say that you want to prevent the education of children from an early age in Koranic schools. Why don't you say it openly? Furthermore, it seems totally disproportionate to provide for the intervention of national education inspectors in order to check whether families provide education to children of 3 years of age to enable them to acquire the common foundation. According to the Directorate-General of School Education – DGESCO – that is, your ministry, the main reasons for choosing to teach at home are respect for the individuality and rhythms of the child, adaptation to atypical children and, finally, harassment and school phobias. According to surveys conducted by associations of families with children attending school at home, non-schooling due to phobia, harassment or maladaptation of the child to the school system accounts for more than 60 per cent of all cases. According to the DGESCO, religious motives are only invoked in 1.4% of cases. These families, when they do not follow the national education programmes, most often use active pedagogies, for example Montessori, Freinet or others, which require a stimulating environment and grant greater autonomy to the child, who learns to be an actor in his/her learning, to develop his/her creativity and to know himself/herself. Article L. 131-10 of the Education Code, which specifies the conditions for monitoring education in the family, was so far quite broad. Decree No. 2016-1452, adopted for its application, covers both the content of the knowledge required, the consideration of the parents' teaching methods and the specificities of the children, as well as the modalities of the supervision exercised by the academy inspection. The text, as amended by the committee, now provides for the content of knowledge and the means of control to be laid down at legislative, rather than regulatory, level. He obstructs the educational freedom of parents. In addition, the procedures for monitoring may be arbitrary, since they are left to the inspector's discretion. Finally, there is an obligation on children to achieve results. The text no longer takes into account the adaptation to the specificities of the child, unless the child has "a disability or a disabling health disorder". Why not allow parents the opportunity to adapt education without the need for a medical diagnosis? This article imposes a performance obligation on families, regardless of the pace of each child, while non-contractual and contractual schools have an obligation of means. It does not take into account the situation of many children who are educated in the family because they are not suitable for the school system or have even suffered from it. Once again, it is a matter of State guardianship of families and even, in this case, a measure of freedom. I now turn to Article 9, which removes the National School System Assessment Board – CNESCO – and replaces it with the School Evaluation Board. At the very least, it is surprising that the Government wants to abolish a body established less than five years ago, since the body created to carry out evaluations needs time to acquire real expertise in its field. Amendments have been made in committee to give this council relatively more independence, by increasing the number of qualified personalities – chosen by the Minister of National Education – from four to six, making them more numerous than the representatives of ministers. You have removed the submission to the Minister for notice of his annual work programme. With an amendment, I propose a much more ambitious reform led by the Republicans Group, which in particular creates a High Authority for Evaluation, Statistics, Foresight and Performance. However, I have not been able to present this amendment in committee because of its inadmissibility under Article 40 of the Constitution, even though we could simply have redeployed resources. With regard to the evaluation of the education system, France is exceptional in comparison with its partners, since the main actor responsible for designing tools to assist in evaluation, pilotage and decision-making is a central management. In many other countries, assessments of student achievement, school performance and the quality of diplomas are often mandatory and periodically imposed under publicly defined assessment protocols. This crucial task is entrusted to university teams or independent agencies of the Ministry of National Education. For example, the Republic of Korea and Canada, two countries with high educational performance, have important knowledge bases on education, which tend to guide public education policies as much as to limit their too frequent changes. Advertising of all reports is also a significant difference with the French system. Minister, how many reports from the Inspectorate General of National Education are on your desk and did not get your nihil obstat? That too can question. Our positive right enshrines, at the constitutional level, the "right to apply to any public official of his administration". Since 2006, the Organic Law on Finance Laws, the LOLF, unanimously passed by Parliament, also provides a source of legitimacy for the evaluation of public education policies, proclaiming a general objective for the performance of State services and the obligation to produce indicators to report on them. With this in mind, the question of scientific autonomy and political independence of an evaluation body for the education system is now a matter of particular importance. However, evaluation of the education system is a necessity at all levels. First of all, it is at macro-budgetary level: the considerable weight of public expenditure on education, as well as the huge number of professionals involved, require relevant indicators, which are the only ones able to ensure effective and equitable management. Evaluation of the performance of schools is also necessary in order to distribute resources equitably throughout the country. We need to discuss this with you, Minister, because we doubt this fairness. Finally, the assessment of pupils' achievements is of paramount importance. Of course, we can only welcome the fact that you are addressing the strategic issues of evaluation in this text, even if it is sometimes with a false scientific air. While all international standards recommend an independent evaluation strategy, you want it to be under your supervision. This obviously makes no sense, especially since it would also mean excluding agricultural education from this approach. Above all, we need assessments to share a diagnosis between the executive branch, Parliament and all the stakeholders in the education system. A report published by the OECD in 2015, entitled "Education Policy Outlook 2015", devotes an entire chapter to evaluation. All countries implementing system-wide evaluation of the system – Chile, Germany, South Korea, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Mexico – entrust this task to a fully independent agency of the executive branch, which provides the system with the means it needs to improve. It would therefore be paradoxical for France to move in a different direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u102	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u103	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] We were absolutely not convinced by your arguments. And what about Article 10, which is changing the name of the current higher schools of faculty and education, which you wish to call the national higher institutes of faculty and education? As they were just beginning to be identified by the students and, in general, by the French and international players in the world of education, this name change is quite incomprehensible, as several actors considered it unnecessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u104	It's cosmetic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u105	Again, Mr Minister, we have not been convinced, alas, by your explanations in committee. We are even more concerned about the introduction of a "training framework" agreed by the ministers responsible for national education and higher education. While the training of future professors is fundamental and is the cornerstone of the reform, all the measures planned on this subject are of a regulatory nature. The current wording of Article 10 does not clearly distinguish between initial teacher training and continuing training. We would like to be reassured about this order. Will he make it clear that what is expected of teachers is the mastery of fundamentals and their transmission? Admit it's quite paradoxical! You claim that these provisions are of a regulatory nature while the measures relating to the use of the mobile phone were, in your opinion, of a legislative nature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u106	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u107	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Double standards for the current majority! You have tried to reassure us of section 17, which provides for a territorial redistribution of academic constituencies. I have already had the opportunity to point out the many problems that would arise from the merger of rectorates and the reduction of the number of rectors in order to make the administrative organization of national education coincide with the new major regions resulting from the NOTRE law – concerning the new territorial organization of the Republic. Following a number of comments and questions that I have put to you in committee, you have announced that you will step back on the rectorate mergers and maintain the current number of rectors. This is obviously very good news, since these guidelines ran counter to a national education administration close to the ground and concerned with rural areas. However, I remain very careful because the devil comes to hide in the details. We need to be reassured on several points, and you have not given us any details in committee. Can you tell us if it is the thirteen regional rectors or all the rectors who will participate in the important meetings held in your department? If academic rectors are excluded, it is the entire education system that will lose out on this decision-making reconcentration. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] There is another crucial question which, unfortunately, you have not answered before the national representation. Today, the thirty rectors all have the status of operational budget manager, under the terms of the LOLF: each decides how it affects the human and financial resources in the academic territory for which it has responsibility. The question is whether this aspect, which is one of the important levers of a rector's current power, will be maintained or not. If the minister kept the rectorates and the rectors but concentrated the decision in one place per large region, that is, in the hands of thirteen rectors out of thirty, then this announcement, which some already call a victory, would be nothing more than a victory at the Pyrrhus, because the seventeen rectors not responsible for operational budgets would then have lost the most important and strategic part of their decision-making power. You'd reduce them to a potash. You can see where it would lead! In short, if you were to go in this direction, you would do a real devitalization of the function of rector, which you did brilliantly exercise. A rector who is not at the head of an academic region would be largely dispossessed of his levers for action. They are State tasks which deserve specific treatment of the administrative organisation. We believe that this is the case for education. It is essential that the rectors stay as close as possible to the ground while maintaining the human and budgetary means to act. Minister, can you reassure us on these points? Finally, I would like to point out that it is a real mistrust of Parliament to proceed by means of orders, as you intend to do with several articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u108	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u109	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The urgency is not such that you can deprive us of a genuine debate on key and strategic issues. I am thinking in particular of territorial redistributions – you know how much we pay attention to this. In any case, it is not by defying Parliament that confidence is built. We therefore ask you for real proof of confidence, which, it must be said, is not present at this stage. I have raised several questions which, to date, remain unanswered by the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u110	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u111	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Régis Juanico also applauds]] ... while they would amply deserve further debate in committee. That is why the Group of the Republicans is asking for a referral to the committee of the bill, which is inabouti, incomplete and dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u112	On the motion for referral to committee, a request for a public vote is before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u113	I shall reply at the same time to Mr Hetzel's speech and to Mrs Rubin's, even if she is no longer present in the Chamber. Mr Hetzel, I found a lot of differences between your speech and that of Mr Minot, who spoke earlier about "coherence" and "consistency". When I heard your colleague, I thought that he was in the mood that we all wanted and that he was able to distinguish between the measures that you may like and those that you do not like. Then, when you hear your speech, you first have the impression that this distinction has disappeared in favour of a one-sided and ultimately quite caricatural view of the bill. And you may sometimes be surprised at your lack of consistency. You have often referred to your political family. However, the candidate you supported considered compulsory education at the age of five.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u114	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u115	Is there an ideological barrier between 5 and 3 years?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u116	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u117	We'll have to explain why.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u118	The age of 5 corresponds to the large nursery section!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u119	You have sometimes used words that are a little excessive. In particular, you called the text "liberticide". I don't know what word you'll use when France is really threatened with violations of freedoms! If compulsory education at the age of three is liberticide, it will have to be said, for example, to this teacher of the Orne who told me about the children, living in deep rural areas, victims, when they enter school only at the CP, of irremediable learning delays.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u121	Is that enough to include this measure in the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u122	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It should also be discussed with these associations that work in the suburbs and refer to the case of girls who do not attend school because of their parents' religion. It will have to be told to all the overseas social workers, who tell me about children between the ages of 3 and 6 who are not going to school, who do not represent the thickness of the line, but often more than 20% of their age class, as in Guyana and Mayotte. There are words that you should know how to use with discernment, especially since the issues of freedom sometimes overlap with the issues of education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u123	We're not your students!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u124	The statements made by Mrs Rubin and Mr Hetzel are an entry point which could discourage us, but I want to point out a few points which could allow you to grasp the hand I have extended to all the political groups. This hand has already been seized by some, but not by all; The Republicans seized it at times but ignored it to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u125	That's what makes democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u126	"At the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u127	In your speech, Mr Hetzel, a first thing surprised me: when we do not accept your amendments, you accuse us of not playing the game of parliamentary democracy, but when we accept them, you say that we finally find the common sense that was initially lacking. This does not encourage us to take account of parliamentary amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u128	You can't buy us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u129	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As I said earlier in the rostrum, we have come with open hands: we are not closed to any further amendments to refine this text, which is necessarily imperfect. However, if every amendment we accept is considered to be a form of concession to your common sense, of which we would be deprived, admit that it is not very incentiveful. I hope that's not the case. The same applies to Mrs Rubin's speech. "Everything that is excessive is insignificant," as one of you said very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u130	Talleyrand is not necessarily an example to follow...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u131	When we want to place ideological elements on a text, we come to caricature it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u132	To hear you, we are all caricatural! It's gonna be a long week!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u133	We speak in front of the French people. I therefore invite everyone to look at the speeches that have been made and to assess the good faith of the criticisms that we have heard. Compulsory education at age 3 was in Mr. Mélenchon's program.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u134	And we will vote in favour!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u135	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is a bit surprising to hear Mrs Rubin accuse me of wanting a two-speed school to finish her speech by regretting that a measure taken by the Government, namely the duplication of classes, is not being applied perfectly in the department she represents! It's paradoxical, though. Of two things one: if we set up a two-speed school at the expense of disadvantaged populations, do not complain about the possible non-extension of a measure that we have taken! Consistency and consistency are therefore the principles that must guide our action. However, I will note some positive points in your speeches, as I would like you to find them in mine. In everything you've said, I've managed to find points of union around the school, and I'll take a few examples. We know the attachment of Mr Mélenchon and the La France group to maritime issues. Mrs Rubin, I don't know if you'll be able to make a left-right cleavage on this...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u136	[[Smile]] If you ask us...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u137	Indeed, it is extremely desirable for France to develop its professional skills in the maritime field, both in research and in education. That is what I have proposed, particularly for the ultramarine territories, by ensuring that they all have an extremely developed sea school. Whether or not this falls within the legislative sphere, there are magnificent projects to be carried out. Again, I'm not sure the sea is left or right. [[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] [[Long exclamations on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Yes, of course, the subject of the school is political, in the noble sense of the word. I never said otherwise, Mrs Rubin. I said that the school can unite us – in politics, it is sometimes possible to unite, and that remains politics. In my view, the view that politics is synonymous with division is deeply false. In fact, Mrs Faucillon sent me back to George Orwell, probably thinking about 1984. I will answer him by referring to La Ferme des animaux, a work that is probably more consistent with his political family.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u138	Thank you! It's always a pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u139	Either one is able to search for the elements of unity whenever they appear, or one seeks to leave unnecessary polemics on the subject of the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Either we agree with you or we're useless!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u141	Mr. Mélenchon, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u142	There are also elements of difference, which must be looked at in detail, and not in a single way, as we have heard all too often this afternoon, because this attitude has had the effect of caricature the text by accusing it either of being liberticide or of aiming to create a two-speed school. While we have divided by two the numbers of classes of preparatory courses and EC1 in the most disadvantaged territories, for the benefit of 300,000 children, such a charge defies common sense. Ideology is not on our side, it's on your side. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] However, I remain hopeful. I have taken the example of the maritime territories, and I can also take the example of the speech given by Mr.Minot: it is possible, with discernment, to agree on several points. The Government and, I think, the majority will show this by adopting amendments. This possibility is open, especially since several subjects, which I mentioned in my speech, are suitable. This is my mindset: to make it possible to enrich the text, from the moment when the criticisms formulated have a constructive dimension – I do not seek unanimity – aimed at advancing the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u143	In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u144	"What is well-conceived is clearly stated," said Boileau. Well, we have the proof again with the motion to refer Mr Patrick Hetzel to committee, which details, point by point, the shortcomings of a text that needs to be improved, in particular in response to the worrying drop-out of the school of the Republic in international rankings. [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Among the arguments that have been put forward, one has drawn my attention in particular: the constant need for the majority to resort to orders. I can understand the urgency in which we find ourselves and the expectations of the French. However, minister, don't you have enough skills in your hands without having to go through the parliamentary box to get even more? Do you claim that your own majority, whose base is flickering?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u145	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u146	It's going so well with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Is this all the credit you give to Parliament's work? Colleagues, is it the heart of our mission to make the law or to defeat the executive power by giving it the power to do it in our place? This is not, in any case, the mandate I have received. That is why the Republican Group will vote on this motion of common sense, in order to give us time to really take our responsibilities before the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u148	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u149	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have tabled a motion for referral against compulsory schooling at the age of three.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u150	That's not the only reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u151	The MODEM group considers, on the contrary, that it is a text of social justice, capable of reducing inequalities and raising the level of pupils. Many of the measures contained therein are in this direction, such as the strengthening of training, experimentation or the creation of new international institutions. The debates in committee have obviously made it possible to identify the different positions of the groups, criticisms have been made, and that is quite normal. It is now important to continue the discussions in order to remove the remaining doubts and allow the planned arrangements to apply. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Parliamentary debates in the Assembly and then in the Senate will play their part, which is to improve the text, since it probably remains perfectable. That is why the MODEM Group will not vote on the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u152	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u153	Trust in the school is not decreed, minister, much less in a bill characterized by its verticality. Like the Red Pens movement, many teachers and national education staff were waiting not for an umpteenth reform in your hand, but for a law of recognition and budgetary programming, providing for human resources and additional purchasing power, in order to improve in practice their working conditions and those of pupils. They waited for a law of recognition for their investment in this beautiful teaching profession, which some liked to caricature by evoking between fifteen and twenty-five hours of work per week and sixteen weeks of vacation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u154	Who said that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u155	What is your response to this request for recognition? The abolition of 3,500 second degree posts and the freezing of remuneration. In the first degree, teachers in schools are among the least well paid in Europe: in baccalaureate plus 5, 1800 euros net after ten years of seniority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u156	Yes! It's not terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u157	Mr Minister, our colleague Patrick Hetzel is right in calling for referral back to committee because many provisions are too vague and others have been adopted in haste, after having been the subject of insufficient consultation. Article 1 was seen as a desire to set the educational community at a standstill in its ability to exercise its freedom of expression: silence in the ranks! It must be completely rewritten or even deleted, in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State. Article 4 also deserves to be reworked. We have asked in vain for a precise estimate of the additional cost for the finances of the State and local authorities of the compensation of the maternity allowance to private education resulting from the requirement of education at three years: an amount of 150 million euros is mentioned, that is not nothing. As for CNESCO, which was created only five years ago in the school's re-foundation law, it will be replaced by the school's assessment board, a ministerial body, which will not offer the same guarantees of independence or a thorough prior assessment. The future of CNESCO remains unclear. Finally, too many provisions of the bill entrust the Government with the task of writing the law in place of Parliament by means of the ordinances – this is the case with the new organization of the academies or departmental councils of national education – not to mention twenty-two implementing decrees provided for in the twenty-five articles of the bill. [[Applause on several SOC benches]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u158	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u159	We understand some of the arguments put forward by Patrick Hetzel and are disappointed, for example, that the obligation to train between the ages of 16 and 18 years or the generalisation of the localized inclusive accompaniment poles have not been debated in committee. However, the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote against the motion for referral because we are confident that we will have a real constructive debate throughout the week to formulate our questions – there are some – and our concerns, and get answers that will strengthen us in our hope of being heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u160	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u161	Many arguments have already been developed; I won't come back. It is up to me to explain why the group of La France insoumée will vote in favour of the motion for referral back to committee, while clearly taking its distance from the argument put forward by our colleague Mr Minot: the so-called "liberticide" character of the schooling of children from the age of three.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u162	Bravo, Mr. Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u163	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I do not share this argument, completely contrary to the formidable lever of emancipation that was the republican school: its compulsory, free and secular character has made its strength and created the confidence of popular circles and the countryside. It is to these principles that we must come back to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u164	We agree! From 3 years old!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u165	Yeah, from 3 years. However, Minister, behind the announcement effect, I blame your text for not going further, in 2019, towards free, notably by making the canteen free, whose cost strikes many budgets, subject that the text does not even address!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u166	Become mayor and do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u167	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] It would also be appropriate to go further in the mandatory nature by making the canteen compulsory. You consider the cost of the measure impossible, as it is close to the cost of removing the ISF! If you had maintained that tax, we could take it! It's all about political will!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u168	Only Mr Corbière has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u169	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] There is, however, a worm in the fruit of children's schooling from the age of three: it is not certain that public schools will have the capacity to accommodate all newcomers, which will have a boon effect for private schools, especially since they will benefit from at least 150 million euros of public money! On this point, we do not agree. It is necessary to return to the principle of our elders, who have made the beauty of the school and which I repeat: free, obligation and secularism! But the text does not commit the public school to win over too many children who go to the private sector, the deterioration of the public school leading the parents to no longer trust it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u170	How many children attend private schools, even at home?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u171	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u172	[[Applause on a few benches of the SOC and FI groups]] I do not go back to the minister's insult to my political family, who have learned very important lessons from the past. On the other hand, the Government seems to be forgetting, at the present time, the historical dimension of fundamental values, particularly with regard to respect for freedom. [[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] It is natural that the Republicans consider that the former director general of school education under Sarkozy does not go far enough in the bill for a school of trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u173	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u174	As I have already pointed out in explanation of the vote in favour of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left on the motion for a preliminary rejection, we wish to reject many aspects of the text, while others remain very vague – so is the pre-recruitment of teachers, whose future workings we do not know. Mention should also be made of the many gaps in the text, which are now being targeted by our fellow citizens, particularly those who are doing national education. In addition to inclusive schools and school violence, it is also necessary to mention the degraded working conditions of teachers. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] These are the reasons why we will vote in favour of the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u175	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u176	The ambitions defended by the Government through the bill, namely, the raising of the general level and social justice, seem perfectly legitimate to us. We share all these objectives: the school of the Republic must be a school of trust, offering all an effective equal opportunity and the opportunity to prepare for its future in society. The lowering of the age of compulsory education, first of all – this is not a symbolic measure – the more refocused training of teachers and the strengthening of the link between the college and primary school: we will come back to all the objectives in the context of the examination of the text. There are still questions that need to be addressed: we need to focus on them. I am thinking of the financial compensation for the communes or of the duty to exemplify the teachers, which seems useless or even provocative. The issue of public institutions of basic knowledge is an important issue, warranting further discussion. The inclusion of students with disabilities also deserves more time. Finally, you propose to carry out by order the territorial redistribution of academic constituencies, while the answers you have given us lack clarity. [[Smile. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] These central issues have already been raised in committee. We now find it useful to discuss it quickly in the sitting. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group sees no interest in referring the text back to committee, even though I very much like to hear Patrick Hetzel quote the Defender of Rights abundantly. Let us hope that the recommendations of the latter will inspire our colleagues LR more regularly...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u177	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u178	Given the ambitions set out in this bill, we need to identify concrete challenges, including territorial ones, to reform. As a corollary, trust has equal opportunities: all students must have the same opportunity to succeed. This text promotes our ambition to raise the general level of students by strengthening social justice. Thus, 26,000 children, often from disadvantaged backgrounds, will benefit from the same conditions of success as all their comrades throughout France. This formidable leverage will particularly benefit the departments of Mayotte and Guyana. Teacher, teacher of schools, teacher in kindergarten, I know how much kindergarten contributes to the development and development of children, when they are in school from 3 years old.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u179	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u180	I would like to stress that the text does not detract from the right to education within families, which is and remains a freedom. The necessary assessment will take into account the child's cognitive abilities and the progressivity of learning. The use of experimentation in the fields of pedagogy, international exchanges, the development of digital technology, scheduling arrangements, cooperation with partners in the education system will also guarantee confidence in the improvement of the school. Second, trust will translate into the quality, that of the institutions, through better evaluation, provided by the school's assessment board, but also that of teacher training, since we will put an end to the inequalities of training according to the territories and allow the pre-recruitment. This text also incorporates advances in the schooling of pupils with disabilities, which we voted on a few days ago in this House unanimously. These measures are very much expected...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u181	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u182	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u183	Expectations are already disappointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u184	...by families and individuals who contribute to making the school inclusive. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] This text has been enriched throughout the debates in committee and will still be enriched by your work, ladies and gentlemen. It provides solutions adapted to the needs and progress of education and to the realities of our territories. The La République group on the move will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u185	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u186	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 74 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 20 Against 54
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u187	In the general debate, Mr Frédéric Reiss spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u188	With the bill for a school of trust, France will be Europe's champion of school precocity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u189	And that's very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u190	This law introduces compulsory schooling from the age of 3 years, in accordance with the presidential announcement made during the assizes of kindergarten. The opportunity was too good, minister: there will be a Blanquer law, contrary to what you said in May 2017 at the PEEP congress. It is true that with regard to school rhythms or learning to read in small groups in priority areas of education, the Blanquer method has rather seduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u191	And successful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u192	Pragmatic, it has consisted of trusting the actors in the field, teachers, parents of pupils and communities, with the aim of offering students the advantages that will enable them to succeed in their education first, their occupational integration then, their integration into society finally. The Republicans Group appreciated the introduction of flexibility measures, which reduce territorial inequalities and increase the chances of school success. Let me remind you that the great laws of guidance for the school were intended to apply for about fifteen years, the time of the journey of a cohort of students from kindergarten to baccalaureate. This was the case with the Jospin Act of 1989, which completed the democratisation of the school. This was also to be the case with the Fillon Act of 2005, the first law on policy and programming in this area, which established the common foundation of knowledge and skills. However, in 2012, the left wanted its law on the school and hastened to have the law of re-foundation passed – of which I greet the rapporteur, Yves Durand, present in the stands. It has consolidated the common foundation of knowledge, skills and culture while focusing on teacher training in ESPE and on the evaluation of the school system, two major areas that we will discuss. All this to emphasize that time is accelerating: an eight-year period had elapsed before the Peillon law; There will only have been six years before the Blanquer law. In the Internet age, we could understand this, but have we given sufficient thought to the impact of digital in the daily practices of school? Of course, we debated it last Wednesday, but perhaps we should go further. The Berthoin Act of 1959 extended compulsory education from 14 to 16 years; The purpose of this text is to move it forward from the beginning to 3 years. What does that mean? Does our kindergarten, which some consider the best in the world, no longer meet the needs of families? Would the State not be able to offer a coherent and ambitious early childhood policy for the youngest? Would families be unable to educate their children by allowing them to adapt gradually to school? These are as many questions as possible, knowing that 97.6 per cent of children aged 3 and almost 100 per cent of those aged 4 and 5 are already in school. Is the measure not going to cause problems of attendance for the little ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u193	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u194	The vast majority of Republican MPs cannot resolve to impose compulsory schooling at 3 years. Rather, we are inclined to propose an ambitious pre-school policy, trusting families, who remain the first educators of their children. Precocity in compulsory education is not synonymous with success. We can also question the meaning of this decision, taken without any consultation. Compulsory schooling from the age of 3 could disrupt the plans of parents who learn to read, write and count to their children. This choice offered to families is perfectly legal, with the education of children being controlled from CP. From now on, control will begin at kindergarten. So, detectives will come to the house, but to do what? We can ask ourselves. What are the motivations of parents who choose to start family education? Are all 3-year-olds ready for regular hours? How many of the 26000 students affected suffer from a disability or difficulty that imposes a choice other than school at the age of 3? Would parents who use freedom of education to gradually get used to the school's fixed timetables be wrong? From my point of view, the initial freedom left to them does not in any way impede schooling. The new article 4 bis, adopted in committee, is revealing: it opens up the possibility for kindergartens to take care of children under compulsory education at the age of three. It alone bears witness to the fact that early childhood care facilities can very well care for young children without their compulsory enrolment in school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u195	It's a transient device!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u196	I fear that "French avant-gardeism", to use your words, Minister, will make little emules in Europe. Several OECD countries, mentioned earlier by Patrick Hetzel, have achieved excellent results in international tests such as those of PISA, thanks to a dynamic early childhood policy in preschool. While the focus on nursery school is interesting, it should not simply lead to a lowering of the age of compulsory education. It must also lead to dedicated staff training and a higher level of supervision. The aim is to facilitate the transition between the cycle of initial learning and that of basic learning. I agree with the progress made under Article 6 on EPLEI, as I am in favour of the establishment of public institutions of basic knowledge, EPLEI. I had once called for the establishment of the schools of the base; These can be sustained through FSPs, particularly in priority education areas. On the other hand, I have again tabled an amendment on school groups, in the spirit of my bill at the end of last year. I am convinced that by consolidating the RPIs, the intercommunal educational groups, we will come to more satisfactory situations, especially in rural areas. I hope that this amendment will have a better fate in public than in committee. Since you took office, Minister, you have been promoting the duplication of CP and CE1 classes in priority education areas. The "more teachers than classes" scheme would give school groups a new dynamic and would help to combat the divide between the territories, which would not be negligible in the current situation. I have always thought that it is necessary to better evaluate our education system in order to make progress. During the review of the re-foundation bill, I did not, I admit, spontaneously join the creation of CNESCO, the National School System Assessment Board. With hindsight, after working on it, I affirm that it fulfils a triple role of producing, synthesizing and promoting evaluations, from an international perspective of methodological expertise, for education professionals and the general public. For the Republican Group, it is essential that the school system be independently evaluated; This is the sine qua non of its improvement. This evaluation must be carried out by a scientific authority with its own resources and led by members whose appointment ensures independence, with the involvement of Parliament. With regard to the new school assessment board, we are in no way reassured by the majority that CNESCO will not disappear and that its missions will be transferred to a university chair. There is no doubt that there is a real strategy for ministerial communication. This is not the case, on the other hand, with the independent evaluation of the school. At the moment, we are concerned about this, and we are not the only ones, since the parents' federations of students, the PEEP and the FCPE, the SNPDEN – National Union of Management Staff of National Education – as well as a significant number of reformist unions have sent you a letter on this subject, Minister. I do not know what response has been reserved for them, but it would be good if, by the time Article 9 is examined, you proposed a clear mechanism for the further independent evaluation of the school system; It's a major issue. The transformation of ESPE into INSPE is an anecdote. Of course, we all share the desire to train teachers well, not only at the beginning of their careers, but also in the context of continuing training, especially when they are confronted with new difficulties in the exercise of their profession. During the examination of Article 17 in committee, we felt a real inflection of your desire to harmonize, by order, the academic constituencies with the major regions. We have seen a retro-pedaling on this subject, following strong media pressure from the ground. It is indeed essential to keep nearby rectoral services. But then, why a regional rector and sub-rectors in today's academies? In Strasbourg, in view of the creation of the European Community of Alsace, the presence of a full rector, with decision-making and management powers, seems indispensable to me for the implementation of a proactive policy on bilingualism. Overall, the important articles of this text have been subject to only minor amendments, some of which are even in line with a talkable law. The example of taking disability into account in schools is quite revealing, given the fate reserved for the relevant bills, that of the Republicans group first, that of the Socialists and related groups then. While amendments by the majority have been adopted to add the word "inclusive" in several articles of the Education Code, the inclusive school is not decreed. The school needs to evolve through concrete measures relating to the reception, training and status of HSEAs. We have noted your willingness to change the perspective on the difference, Minister, and we will take our full part in the development of the "public service of disability" that you mentioned. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] In conclusion, on key issues such as early childhood care, teacher training, assessment of the school system or the need for proximity, the text provides inadequate, incomplete or even contradictory answers. The Republicans Group will not sign a blank cheque to the Government in such an important area as education.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u198	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u199	This afternoon we are discussing the bill for a school of trust, whose stated ambition is to raise the general level of students, for greater social justice. As you know, Minister, we share this ambition on all sides of the House. In fact, the action taken since the beginning of the quinquennium is in this direction, thanks to strong and identified measures, which are already beginning to bear fruit. I will simply mention the most emblematic of these: the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 in the priority education zone. For many years, we had been facing a complex situation and a lack of good results. Early evaluations show that this measure significantly reduced the proportion of students with very high difficulty in French and mathematics. Another lesson has been learned from this new practice: teachers have adapted to a new pedagogy, which allows for a greater individualisation of learning. These elements contribute, as we know, to an increase in the level; They will be strengthened by the bill you are introducing. With these first returns, we very much welcome the ambition of the President of the Republic to achieve, in the medium term, the generalisation of the duplication of classes of CP and EC1. This measure will soon produce effects beyond primary school: if, as we hope, the level increases from the first cycle, it will have an impact on college and high school. We must therefore continue to accompany and amplify it. It is in this context that the bill for a school of trust takes its meaning, in particular through its strongest measure: the lowering of the age of compulsory education to 3 years, announced by the President of the Republic at the beginning of last year's kindergarten. We have supported this measure since the beginning, as it seems to us to be a powerful lever against school failure. By tackling inequalities at an early age and by providing children with the means to learn language and socialization early, we give ourselves the capacity to pursue a real policy of combating social inequalities. France will thus be one of the first countries in the world to lower the age of compulsory education to 3 years. Beyond the symbol, it is above all a strong teaching act, considering that the most fundamental learnings are acquired from the earliest age, as all the studies carried out on this subject attest. Among the other features of the bill, the strengthening of the monitoring of education in the family, provided for in section 5, is consistent with the Gatel bill discussed by our assembly last year, which provided for more stringent control of non-contracted schools. This article is part of the overall fight against sectarian drifts in certain establishments. In this case, the scheme empowers the competent authorities to compel families to attend school in the event of a breach of the duty of education. Article 6 provides for the establishment of local public schools for international education. These have aroused our vigilance because, while the desire to attract new audiences to public education is commendable, the issue cannot be addressed in the context of economic attractiveness. Such a provision should be considered in a more comprehensive approach, drawing on the success of international schools to benefit all students. We will have the opportunity to address again the subject of language learning – we know you appreciate it – in order to remind you that a particular effort must be made in this direction. The question of social mix is an important issue for us, as you will understand. We are pleased to see that the work in committee has made progress on this point, but we remain firm on the principle of including in the project the objectives of social mix, so as not to give the image of establishments reserved for a few. We are also pleased to see that a report will be submitted two years after the coming into force of this Act, which will provide an initial assessment of the establishment of these institutions. We welcome the creation, in Article 7, of a full-function rectorate in Mayotte: together with the lowering of the age of education and the means that the Republic will devote to it, this initiative will make it possible to remedy a difficult situation. The stakes in Mayotte, very different from those encountered in the metropolis, call for a substantial effort by the national community to respond to them, starting with the fight against illiteracy. The following two mechanisms, that of experimentation and that of setting up a school evaluation board, seem to go hand in hand. We strongly support the desire to grant educational and organisational freedom to schools and teachers. This seems to us to be an important step, provided that we can learn from it. That is why the establishment of the school's assessment board is equally important to us. Many initiatives and experiments are already at work; We want them to grow. They guarantee the continuous improvement of our education system, but need to be evaluated in an innovative way, both through institutional evaluations and self-assessment. The subject of education is a subject which is a subject for our nation and we are pleased to see that, by a provision defended by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, the annual evaluation report can be the subject of a broad public debate, so that all actors can seize the subject, see and discuss the returns that will be made to it in order to progress again, at the service of our students. Other provisions seem to us to be useful advances in improving the public service of national education, such as the question of human resources, addressed through the training of teachers and the establishment of national training standards. Disparities were too large and it was time to tackle them in order to achieve harmonization and an increase in the overall level of training by bringing them closer to the academic world and by facilitating the involvement of people from the private sector. Other projects are, however, opening up, such as the continuing training of teachers and possible adjustments to ensure that they also benefit from the validation of the experience. On the other hand, the opportunity offered to supervisors to be able to carry out teaching activities when they turn themselves to the teaching profession seems to us to be a good idea, as it will allow them to train in practice and to discover all the facets of a beautiful but difficult profession. We told you, minister, of our reservations about the territorial redistribution of the rectorates, arguing that it was better to keep a division that favoured proximity. The debates in committee have made it possible to understand the aim of your action on this point, which seems to us to go very broadly in this direction. Finally, there is one issue on which your Ministry has been alerted on numerous occasions, both by the local authorities and by several of the groups represented in Parliament: the compensation of the increase in funding by the municipalities of the obligation now imposed on them to enrol all children aged 3 to 5 in a nursery school. We noted that the department would make efforts to ensure that the additional costs incurred were borne by the Crown. But the current scheme, comparing the cost of the school year 2019-2020 to the 2018-19 school year alone, will not take into account the situation of the many municipalities currently paying a communal package to private schools under contract. Many of these municipalities will thus not be treated equally, since only those municipalities which so far had no agreement with private schools will be fully compensated for the additional costs. This is far from being annoyed to local and regional authorities, especially in the current tense context of their finances. It is also a matter of the simple equality of treatment that we must guarantee in our Republic. The impact assessment estimates this additional cost at about 50 million euros, which could be included in your ministry's budget; This would send a very positive signal to the municipalities, which risk if not disillusion when it comes to forwarding their files to the state authorities for financial support. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement hopes that you will be able to hear our proposals for the development of this mechanism. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] This bill includes advances and adjustment mechanisms that we believe are moving in the direction that has been underway since the beginning of the quinquennium towards more justice, for an education service resolutely geared towards improving the general level, in order to make it able to respond to the challenges of our world. We follow you in this direction; That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u200	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u201	[[Applause on all benches]] First of all, let me mention before you the memory of our former colleague Sandrine Doucet, who recently died, who was very invested in matters of education during the previous legislature. We can all together address to his loved ones an emotional thought. The bill that will occupy us all week is called "for a school of trust"—a term that is dear to you, minister. But trust is not decreed: it is the result of a good organization of relations between the different parties involved in the school, of the respect accorded to parents, children, and of consideration for the teaching teams. However, from Article 1, the establishment of the bond of trust, which is essential between students, families and the public service, is linked to the exemplary nature of the teachers. This reinforced duty of exemplarity has struck the teaching teams, who must be able to bring their expertise and share their experience in the field, even negative, without being worried or misconceived. The project, for the most part, makes education compulsory from the age of 3 years, strengthens control over home education, reforms the higher schools of faculty and education, and finally introduces a new national division for rectorates. Compulsory schooling from the age of three is certainly positive but is not an essential change since, I repeat, 98.9 per cent of children aged three are already in school. It will be sufficient to provide for additional resources and suitable premises. The real question is, of course, how will communities be compensated for this extra cost? However, I understand that the compensation would only be in full for the municipalities which do not voluntarily pay a maternity allowance for the private school. That point should therefore be clarified. Moreover, compliance with the obligation to attend school at the age of 3 does not necessarily constitute a panacea. Many researchers stress the need for a continuum in the care of the child between 0 and 6 years of age. A 2018 report by the Defender of Rights recommends that the child be considered as a whole, in particular by integrating all early childhood care services from birth to 6 years of age. How will we ensure this continuum, which is very important? With regard to de-schooling, the fact that a number of children were escaping State or social services radars was indeed a matter of concern. The enhanced control measures you have adopted are useful, but it would seem essential to us to know who these children are and to have an identifier assigned to them, in order to allow for in-depth surveys and statistics. Of course, I share the concern expressed about the fate of CNESCO: we hope that its retention will be enshrined in the law. In addition, you are extremely attentive to the issue of school difficulties. But they first hit poor families, many in the priority areas of city politics. Since January 2005, educational success programmes have sought to address this challenge by providing comprehensive care for the child in support of disembodied families and the coordination of professionals around the child and his/her family. In the same way, the Borloo report recently proposed to organize new educational networks within the school, within the framework of an educational city. Minister, if you often talk about the duplication of CP classes, I'm surprised that you're not taking stock of educational success programs in priority education neighbourhoods, because it also seems important to us. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] That's the most important thing. We will talk about this text filled with Hannah Arendt's words on education: "It is also with education that we decide whether we love our children enough not to reject them from our world [...] or to take away their chance to undertake something new [...], but to prepare them in advance for the task of renewing a common world. With this conviction, we will analyze this text and make proposals to improve it. As it stands, it is far from what we would like, in accordance with the requirements of Hannah Arendt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u202	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u203	We share the vision of republican education that you call your wishes, Minister: the development of critical thinking, the acquisition of fundamental knowledge and the republican school as a vector of social justice. School is the first way of life, that of personal, intellectual and social achievement. It is therefore our duty to ensure that our school brings to everyone knowledge, know how to be, know-how and cultural enrichment, while granting this mission with the evolution of the Republican school over time. The school, through the knowledge and values it conveys, is the foundation of a fraternal and serene society. It must be thought for all. In four months, we have had to consider two bills on this subject. This demonstrates the need, shared by all political sensitivities, to improve the way in which students with disabilities fit into their school environment. All MPs, on all benches, have taken advantage of the opportunity offered by this bill to improve school inclusion. In fact, when you presented your project in committee, Minister, you stressed the importance of making this legislative vehicle the vehicle for inclusive reform. Participating in the construction of an inclusive school is also that, building the school of trust. You will defend an amendment to introduce a new chapter on school inclusion, which we can only welcome and thank you for that was our will. In this amendment, you insert the articles from our debates on our colleague Bouillon's bill, taking into account all the actors involved in this inclusion, in the interests of children with disabilities. This is an additional step taken by the Government in the recruitment of accompanying students. However, we must also extract our HESAs from wage insecurity, due, among other things, to the specificity of their contract and function. We will therefore defend amendments in this direction, as well as proposing ambitious future prospects for the AESH, by allowing them to gain direct access to the master's degree in teaching, education and training, through the validation of the experience acquired, without going through the licensure. In the same amendment, you put an end to the experimentation of the localised inclusive support poles, or PIAL, and defend the generalization of this device. We are very surprised that a measure of this magnitude is presented to us by means of a simple amendment. You thus deprive us of the opinion of the Council of State on the subject and of a more comprehensive impact assessment. We would have liked to see this experiment come to fruition and to know the results. We hope that the consultation "together for an inclusive school" will inform us. The Government will also present us with an amendment establishing a training obligation for young people between the ages of 16 and 18 who are neither under study nor in employment. Although particularly commendable and endorsing an amendment by our group aimed at combating the dropping out of school of the 100,000 young people concerned, this proposal raises questions. We ask ourselves, for example, how the obligation will relate to the universal national service, but also to the human and financial means needed. The landmark measure of the bill, the advance from the age of compulsory education to the age of three, is a measure that we have been defending for several years. It is accompanied by a proactive policy to make nursery school a place of life and fundamental learning in the construction of the child and tends to give everyone the same opportunity to succeed. This measure, of course, concerns only 26,000 pupils, with a particular focus on certain territories. As such, we have a very special thought for our fellow citizens of Mauritius and Guyana. The State is committed to transferring the necessary resources to local and regional authorities. However, we question the temporality of this transfer of resources. What of the municipalities that have incurred expenses by anticipating an increase in the number of children in school? The necessary upgrading of the teaching profession could, I believe, find its full place in this bill, as well as that of the position of principal or principal, who plays a crucial role, through the confidence that he can create in an educational team, and for which we seek recognition of a true status. I had tabled an amendment on this subject in committee. Adjudged then admissible, it is no longer admissible; I admit I don't understand. This question is becoming more and more acute. The elimination of school life jobs, or EVS, assisted contracts allocated to schools and dedicated to administrative aid, and the increase in security-related constraints in recent years have increased the unease of directors, and the status quo is no longer sustainable. But we have no doubt about your willingness to remedy it. We are critical of the drafting of the article establishing public institutions of basic knowledge. We will propose amendments to create a management team and to remove the subordination link between its members: a principal of a college cannot become the hierarchical superior of principals of elementary or nursery schools. Finally, we will be vigilant about the involvement of the territories both in the evaluation of the school system and in the revitalization of the learning of regional languages and cultures by our children. We are very committed to the transmission of the regional culture of the territory in which they live. It is also a key to economic development, particularly in cross-border territories, and to sharing between neighbouring territories. We therefore share, as you have understood, the Government's ambition to strengthen the acquisition of basic knowledge, to insist on the transmission of republican values and to maintain the republican ideal of a school of social justice. We remain committed to national cohesion for the transmission of knowledge and the future of students, with particular attention to the territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The IUD, Act and Independent Group is therefore addressing with great hope the debate on the bill for a school of trust, for all: the students, their parents, the teaching teams and all those who contribute to preparing the future of our young people and therefore of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u204	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u205	We owe so much to school. The Republican school plans to free us sometimes from the seal of the family and from the conditioning of the social and cultural environment. The aim of the school is to train free individuals, emancipated citizens. This is the confidence our nation places in school. However, this trust has been shaken for years by social reproduction, which it cannot stop. Your bill, called the "school of trust," Minister, is in line with the texts that attempt to disaggregate the school of the Republic. The liberal snake loves around the school, ready to stifle it in the name of flexibility of operation and the famous efficiency – you know, do better with less. This is reflected, for example, in the establishment of local public schools for international education. In reality, it is your elitism that betrays your desire to create such schools: instead of putting the means in the teaching of languages throughout the territory, you segment the system by creating super-language schools, in which the privileged students will concentrate. Your liberal logic is still reflected in the possibility of educational assistants, enrolled in a training course preparing a competition for access to education, being entrusted with teaching functions. The logic of the competition is thus broken. It is the very principle of the civil service that is being undermined, with the danger of precarisation of education assistants, acting as teachers without having the status. Concomitantly, you have recently abolished more than 2600 teaching positions. At the same time, since the beginning of the school year, FCPE has recorded more than 30,000 hours of absence of unreplaced teachers, from kindergarten to high school. You're walking on your head. You argue for your willingness to manage human resources properly in order to make possible derogations from the status of the public service for the bodies of education personnel, psychologists of national education, management and inspection staff, always with the same objective: to ease the status and break the principles of the public service. In addition, your text augurs for a takeover by the Ministry of Education System Governance, to the detriment of teachers' educational freedom. At the top of the system, you set up a school assessment board, most of which you will appoint, which will strengthen the control of political power over an allegedly independent body. In the field of training, the Ministry will now monitor the training framework of the National Higher Institutes of Faculty and Education. As it stands, the management of these institutes will be appointed, without the proposal of the school's evaluation board. It is more serious: in parallel, you attacked in catimini, this summer, the equality between diplomas. On the margins of this bill but following the same logic, on July 19, 2018, you passed through a decree and several decrees, to introduce a portion of continuous control in the tests of the ferry, to the tune of 40%. From now on, according to the institution in which the student will be enrolled, the diploma obtained will no longer have the same value. In the end, you do nothing less than undermine the equality of diplomas. It is therefore the philosophy of the republican school that is targeted. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For us, as you understand it, this bill is not up to the challenge. You are watching the sick school, accompanying him on the way to the grave, while it should be cared for by giving him more financial and human resources. Finally, your political choices are consistent and clear. The entrepreneurial vocabulary of performance and efficiency is omnipresent. It is a sign of a shift in our society towards individualism and the commodification of knowledge. Minister, as you will understand, we do not have the same definition of school. You are mistaken in bringing to the pinnacle the employability and relaxation of the school system. Instead of sacrificing everything to efficiency and money-king, restore its true function to the school: put your trust in emancipatory knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u206	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u207	[[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon holds a red pen in her hand]] By this simple pen, I mean my support for the legitimate mobilization of teachers who wish to restore a public service of quality education. Minister, I will not blame you for having changed your mind about whether or not to make a law, but rather what your text contains. I see it as a skill not to panic, but rather as a mark of modesty. Indeed, calling this bill twenty-four articles of necessary legislative adjustment allows you to silence its consistency. After the reform of the high school and the Parcoursup, this bill endorses the same logic: to destructure the national framework of education, to train insider paths and to accompany the objectives of CAP 2022 – public action committee 2022. Under an appearance of disparate assembly, this bill actually aims at the radical liberal transformation of the education system. As you call yourself Jules Ferry, Minister, you are actually applying Luc Chatel's thinking. The black hussards of the Republic, to whom you ask for confidence, feel on the contrary an immense distrust, legitimate in view of what you do to them: abolition of posts, freezing of wages, increase of working time, duty of reserve outside working time, suppression of partitarianism, educational freedom more than threatened. This text allows the ministry and the minister to take over the school institution, in the same way as Article 1, a measure of pressure and distrust vis-à-vis teachers. You are talking about an example which, according to the Council of State, has nothing objective, nothing normative. The same applies to the abolition of CNESCO for the benefit of a council with smaller missions under the control of the Ministry. Independence is not a second zone principle. Continuing the destructuring of the national framework, Article 8 provides, for example, under the guise of experimentation, that the distribution of teaching hours by subject may differ from one institution to another, depending on local means. Article 17 sets out to merge the academies, which will lead to the disappearance of half of them, so as to leave only one of them per region. The establishment of thirteen academies, with the merger of the 28 existing academies, is a further step towards the regionalisation of national education and the challenge of national rules. This breach of the principle of equality is complemented by the creation of EPLEI, which reflects the introduction of two-tier education. These institutions will derogate from the common educational foundation and will benefit from private funding. All these measures reinforce the establishment of an insider's path, reserved for a limited number of children, sorted on the track. Article 6 quater enshrines the concept of "basic school". The decision to open such schools by the prefects, without any national education authority being consulted, will prevent any control. In addition, the question of compliance with the statutes, programmes and the possibility of using this type of system for reasons of economy rather than for educational reasons is raised by first-degree teachers in the face of pupils in the second level. These articles ask us about the possible modification of the school map and priority areas. We would like specific answers on these points. On the other hand, you are opposed to the creation of a large number of precarious students, without a diploma or teacher training, who would be asked by school heads to provide teaching to overcome the shortage of teachers. Your logics create a situation of shortage that you try to manage instead of fighting it by making the job attractive. Indeed, Article 14 provides that EDAs – education assistants – who are contractually responsible for supervision, are used as apprentice teachers, teachers at a lower cost and without the possibility of tenure for four years. While we defend the idea of pre-recruitment, it cannot become effective without means and requires the creation of a civil servant-internship status, which could be granted from the time of the bachelor's degree to students with the aim of passing an educational competition and committing themselves to work for at least five years for the State after the competition. This seems to me more in line with your nostalgia of the IPES, the institutes of preparation for the second degree teachings. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This bill, as well as the 2600 abolitions of teaching posts in high schools and colleges, responds more to the injunctions of the Public Action Committee 2022 – which takes its name decisively wrong – than to the demands of equality so necessary for an emancipating society. We are in favour of compulsory schooling at the age of three, but that will not be enough for us to accede to this law, against which we will vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u208	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u209	What a beautiful school that of the Republic! What a wonderful work of our history! Without it, the republican ideal of the development of all through autonomy and responsibility in a society of solidarity would be in vain. What means have been devoted by the State, since the advent of the Republic, to support our formidable educational system! On behalf of my colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group, I would like to highlight the important efforts that have been made for decades and decades by the public authorities in favour of the French education system. I obviously welcome the commitment of our teachers, who love their work passionately and want to be listened to, respected and accompanied. Tonight, we are at their side, as we are at the side of the educational communities that are fortunately very committed – perhaps we would like them to be even more committed – and that need to be listened to, as we are at the side of the communities, who are making a great deal of effort to bring all territorial actions to a high level by giving themselves the means. My group is satisfied with the objectives of this bill and with the major commitments it has made: an increasingly fine-tuned individual follow-up of the entire school audience; better methods of evaluating our school system, which is expensive, and which we spend a great deal of money on, and which it is therefore important to evaluate; a set of reforms allowing for greater involvement of all actors, starting with the teaching staff. The State's commitment is therefore important in terms of means, with priority being given to those in difficulty, in both rural and urban areas. Elected from the rural department of the Meuse, I am satisfied with the resources allocated to the latter. With 450 fewer children attending school next year, 27 posts should have been abolished; Only 8 will be. If the supervisory ratios were identical to those of the national average, we should return more than 200 teaching posts; However, the latter are maintained, which allows us to make up for our delays year after year. The same is true in urban areas, in sectors in great difficulty. These important means help to improve the situation of our school system, as we can see. However, are we fully satisfied? No, of course not. We have a duty to continuously improve our performance in this area. The concrete leads you are putting forward in this bill are satisfactory, but we are asking ourselves a number of questions. Of course, compulsory schooling at the age of 3 is a good initiative. Even if a small number of children are involved – 26000, however – they are concentrated in some parts of our territory where we have to act. We therefore welcome this objective. Perhaps a little more technical training of teachers, in the national higher institutes of faculty and education, obviously has good objectives. Although it is obviously not a question of returning to the teaching of normal schools, writing is a technique and, unlike speech, it is not innate. While we welcome the annual strengthening of general teacher training, it is also necessary to strengthen its technical skills, in particular based on field experience; No one can oppose it. Collaboration between colleges and primary schools is one of the good directions taken by this text. In fourteen of the twenty-four colleges of the Meuse, in recent years, we have made sure that a teacher is specially dedicated to this link. When we talk to the teachers and officials of the colleges concerned, we realize that these measures are of common sense and perhaps deserve to be generalized through a number of experiments. What about the school's assessment board, unless it's central, too? During the discussion of the text, we will ask a number of questions. Perhaps I will point out a few bad words already, Mr.Minister – I am thinking in particular of the duty of exemplary staff, we will come back to that. Perhaps we would also have liked greater audacity, in particular by reflecting on more decentralizing actions in our school policy, on the autonomy of our schools – in the big models that work, teachers, elected officials and educational communities are more autonomous, in order to be more responsive instead of constantly waiting for national decisions. This text raises many issues, including financial compensation for the municipalities. We should be careful not to introduce inequality between those who have already opted for the funding of primary schools for 3 year olds and those who do not yet. Since the original text was not satisfactory, a rewrite was proposed in committee, but doubts remain. With regard to home-based education, the risk of dropping out of school must be taken seriously. That is why better control must be put in place, protecting those who enjoy these benefits but also punishing abuses. Our group will propose amendments to this effect in order to improve existing arrangements. We support the expansion of the missions of the education assistants, which will give the system some flexibility and ensure that there are replacements whenever needs arise, including for short periods of time. If we support these objectives, we believe that, in addition to a status, these students will need educational training and fair remuneration. The link between colleges and primary schools was rather positive, but a great deal of consultation with trade unions and the educational community would probably have been welcome. Many questions arise in this regard. I understand the interest of such a mechanism, but some Members of my group, in particular Jeanine Dubie, are quite opposed to it. This will have to be done again during the discussion. The establishment of the national institutes of faculty and education – succeeding the higher schools of faculty and education – is commendable and must be supported. However, care must be taken to ensure that future territorial redistribution, if carried out by ordinances, does not create a great deal of frustration on the ground. Finally, I would like to stress that the French public education service is present everywhere, all over the world. It is 300,000 French or foreign children who are thus schooled in nearly 500 institutions, guaranteeing educational excellence and French values. I wish to speak for the main concern relayed by the French established abroad during the great debate organized by my colleague M'jid El Guerrab...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u210	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u211	... concerning access to this public service: families are attached to this network but their future concerns them, after the recent budget cuts, which attest to the withdrawal of the State from abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u212	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u213	This disengagement results in a continuous increase in school fees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u214	An unbearable increase!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u215	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] As you have understood, minister, we approach this text very kindly. We want it to be improved by the adoption of some of our amendments. In any event, we will have great pleasure in exchanging with you over the next few days on a text that we believe is a step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u216	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u217	The meeting was resumed. Mr. Alexandre Freschi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u218	"The educational institution has operated more through authority than through trust. It was by these words that René Rémond prefaced a General History of Teaching and Education in France in 1981. Trust is at stake in the text proposed today to our Assembly. This text, ladies and gentlemen, is based on the need to rebuild this trust contract in order to be as close as possible to the very spirit of the fathers of the republican school, Guizot and Ferry. A century earlier, Condorcet recalled that "public education is a duty towards citizens". It is in this spirit that the bill lays down the principle of compulsory education from the age of three. This principle is in line with the objective of social and territorial justice. Indeed, the promise of a school for all children in the Republic is aimed first and foremost at those whose families are most vulnerable and whose giving up early education hinders an equal future access to knowledge, as many studies show. This is not a declarative aesthetic but a real challenge: because the school produces the reality of tomorrow, it must become the place of trust, social justice and the rise of the general level. To have confidence in your school is to allow a more equal and homogenous training of our future teachers. Training teachers requires a better articulation of practice and theory, basic teaching and pedagogy. The text also proposes to pre-recruit second-year students to gradually introduce them to the profession of teacher. Pre-recruited students will thus be able to benefit from the maintenance of their scholarship while opening up to a pre-professional perspective, enriching pedagogically. It will also be a real opportunity for the institution to diversify the recruitment pool of its professors, especially in the disciplines that are experiencing the greatest tensions in recruitment, starting with mathematics, English or German. Our teachers, beyond their function, occupy a special place in society. They embody the republican promise of access for all to the mastery of fundamental knowledge and, through this text, our majority wants to show them all the confidence they have. The school of trust also allows teachers and institutions to develop field experiments to meet the needs of the territories and teachers. The aim here is to simplify the right to the use of experiments and, ultimately, the work of the teaching teams in the service of raising the general level, by enhancing the effectiveness of the school and the confidence that families place in the education system. A school of trust is also a school whose performance is assessed according to a single objective: to improve the existing one and to satisfy the interests and needs of the students. Through the school's assessment board, the focus will be on the piloting and coordination missions of the evaluations. The school's assessment board aims to produce effective and appropriate methodological frameworks and tools to make evaluation a real vehicle for excellence, thus raising the general level. To have confidence in his school is also to make France an educational power. Local public institutions of international education will be a major lever for the attractiveness of French education, while at the same time being flexible, but also open to social diversity. Linking institutional objectives, territorial issues and ensuring efficient training: these are the challenges that local communities will now be able to meet. To consider the territories also means to meet the needs of the ground: it will now be done for the department of Mayotte, with the creation of a rectorate. To have confidence in your school is to understand the proximity necessary for a better functioning between the teachers and the institution. This is why the reorganization of the academic services initially proposed does not provide for any deletion of the current thirty rectorates. Finally, in order to respond to the challenges of the field, an amendment by the Government takes up the progress of the bill for a truly inclusive school, adopted unanimously on 31 January, in order to better accommodate our students with disabilities in the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u219	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u220	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] By putting the educational community, institutions and our territories at the heart of the school of trust, this bill reflects a process of gathering to meet the demands of tomorrow, while meeting the needs of the ground. Through the reforms it carries out, it is thus undeniably able to achieve its primary objectives: social justice, raising the general level and, of course, trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u221	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u222	The legislation that we are now considering in open session after our committee debates raises many questions. Under the guise of making school compulsory at the age of three, which in principle can only be a source of consensus, it touches on many subjects without deepening them sufficiently. On the other hand, it avoids other important issues that we would have liked to have appeared – for example, the question of the place of disability, first absent from the text, was finally introduced briefly. There is what the text affirms – the ambition to raise the general level of pupils and to promote social justice – and what it does not say at all – the obligation that it will entail for municipalities to finance private and public kindergartens up to EUR 100 million or EUR 150 million, which could increase competition between the public and the private sector, or the problem of harassment, which we must address. Above all, between the two, there are subjects of major importance, among which are: the controversial notions of exemplaryness and the right to reserve, which teachers should be reminded of; the initial and continuing training of teachers and the structures for their care; the need to highlight the learning of modern languages other than by the far too limited response of the EPLEI; assessment missions; the crucial issue of teacher recruitment; or that of the school of the basement, reintroduced by an amendment of the LaREM group, which short-circuits the necessary discussions with the educational community. The continuum between kindergarten and primary school set up in 2013 and the one you propose to introduce with secondary school cannot be based on a wave of experimentation and some ideas imported from neighbouring countries or from the OECD to try to impose a system that, for the moment, does not satisfy the staff concerned and ignores a real consultation of the municipalities, yet in the front line in the management of schools. By accelerating consolidations and mergers without having settled an essential point of this reorganization, namely the status and place of the school principal, you take the risk of depriving certain already weakened areas of life of the necessary neighbourhood schools in order to allow all the children of our Republic to be accommodated in the best possible conditions. The new school map that you want to draw deserves you to take into account the geographical inequalities, correlated with unacceptable social inequalities, through cross-cutting work with the ministries concerned, and especially in consultation with the actors in education. The generalization of these experiments, announced throughout the country for 2020, does not reassure us. School failure, discriminating, is unevenly distributed among the school population. The explanatory criteria are numerous: transport times, the concentration of less experienced young teachers and the high presence of non-holders in the most difficult areas, the number of students per class, the presence or absence of a boarding school, the share of mobilization of the budgets of the different territorial authorities, the success of the examinations, the presence of health and guidance personnel more or less strong, the attendance of school canteens, the support of families, the place of digital equipment. In short, our children do not have the same opportunities and expectations, and that is what must be at stake in our main battle. Minister, you defend the change of name of ESPEs – which become INSPEs – in the name of the principles of universalism and homogeneity of the fundamentals that teachers must inculcate in students, and the need to add value to the content of training by replacing "school" with "institute". It is, to say the least, surprising to hear you, for whom the school is the project of a life, prefer to the simple "school" the term "institute", with all that this notion vehicle of elitist and learned subtext. However, that is not the point. To assess the practices of ESPE, are we clear on the assessment of the assessment of the learnings of fundamentals? Does the disparity in the rates of acquisition of reading and numeration result from different injunctions according to the ESPE or from the social and territorial inequalities already mentioned? Beyond the symbol, you do not tell us how you plan to give differentiated answers to these realities and the necessary remedies, such as the number and profile of teachers, the stability of teams and the integration into the fundamentals of artistic practices, which are in reality powerful vectors of remediation, inclusion and discovery of its own potential, of its own desires. Certainly, like the IUFM – the university institutes of teacher training – before them, ESPEs were not perfect, but what a waste in anticipation! For the Academy of Grenoble, for example, a cost is expected to be between 600,000 euros and 1 million euros, when nothing prevented you from proposing changes in content and methods within existing bodies. Make training a more effective tool, which gives back confidence to staff and therefore to students, and which is more attractive for future teachers, yes, but how? With recruitment experiencing a real crisis, we must reflect on the conditions under which this profession is carried out, try to understand why one of the most beautiful professions in the world has become, over time at best, a poorly recognized and poorly remunerated profession, at worst, a synonym of galley. Your proposal to allow EDAs preparing for the competition to be assigned teaching tasks may be interesting, but it deserves to be addressed as part of a more comprehensive reflection on the course of future teachers and the place and content of the competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u223	Thank you, my dear colleague. We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u224	So I'll close. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Trust is not decreed, I say it in my turn; It can only be the result of a patiently constructed process, in which the various stakeholders have learned to know each other, to dialogue, to move forward on a reassuring path towards common objectives, accepted on both sides, and to believe in the word given, in the will of everyone to fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u225	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u226	"I don't understand this policy. The aim is not to improve the situation, but to close classes and schools. We are told to return posts; But we didn't steal these posts, we need them! This is the heart cry of a teacher I met on Saturday during a demonstration to maintain the teaching positions of her RPI. It is the entire educational community that feels guilty of an offence that it has not committed. For more than twenty years, we have heard the same rengaine, in Ariège as in all the rural departments of France: "You must return posts! » Well, no, that's enough, that's no longer possible, that's no longer acceptable! School is often the last public service that remains in our valleys. It's the last breath of Republican life, it's the last encounters, the last laughs, the last noises. The last trade no longer needs to be maintained, as it no longer passes anyone. After that, it is the silence, the empty premises that are transformed into rural gîtes or social housing. Except that no one will come to settle in this village, especially people with children, since the school is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u227	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u228	After that, it is the rising at the aurora to join the nearest intercommunal educational group, the new school with hundreds of children, the new base school. After that, it is the problem of mobility, and the tens of kilometres that must be travelled in order to place children in RPI schools that actually correspond to their age group. Some bring us an hour's peregrinations to carry out their new daily mission. This is the case for the children of the Douctouyre valley, whom the parents of the surrounding villages leave by car, in the middle village of the valley, where they take buses that take them to their final destination, determined according to their age class. For more than fifteen years, the administration, often accompanied by local elected officials, has changed the school card to optimize it with its fatal weapon: the RPI. If, in some cases, this solution fulfils its role of stabilizing the number of schools, it happens more and more often that it goes wrong, very badly. The principle of concentrated RPI is to close all schools around to bring students together in one place; schools are destroyed. Another problem is age classes. If an unfortunate village belonging to a deconcentrated RPI suffers, even temporarily, from a shortage of students in an age class, its school will simply close, as was the case in Lieurac last year. RPI is not the panacea of national education in rural areas. It must be properly used, often on a temporary or transitional basis. However, this option is currently the only solution for rural schools and, when it is successful, it is rarely possible to go back. Yet, for decades, multi-level schools have shown their effectiveness. The education of students in multi-level classes in rural areas is more regular. On average, school delays are lower than in schools with only single-level classes, and students are often ahead of schedule. The risk of repetition in the sixth grade, for students in schools with multi-grade classes, would be almost twice as high as for students in single-grade classes. The performance of students in the multi-grade classes in French and mathematics, in CE2 and sixth, is better than that of their peers in the same profile of classes at one level – it's even clearer in mathematics than in French. "In addition, for important aspects of education, such as autonomy in work, attitudes of solidarity and tolerance towards others, which are rarely assessed objectively and quantified, it is likely that the multi-grade classes are highly training without being able to measure their added value compared to other school structures": Viviane Bouysse, former head of the school office of the Directorate of School Education, at the interactive seminar of planning officials, at UNESCO – the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – reported on 25 April 2002. For several weeks now, I have been traveling through my constituency to hear the grievances of the educational community. This morning, I met the DASEN – the academic director of the national education services – of Ariège, which finalises the school card of our department for the 2019 school year: he has to return posts, which is a real puzzle for him, but he responds to your injunctions: 120,000 less civil servants, that is the largest social plan of the quinquennium. It's hard to manage in the field for a senior official. National education will then undergo one of the greatest bleeds in its history. I took advantage of our exchanges to convey to him the concerns of our fellow citizens. He assures me that he wants to do his best, and I trust him because he inspires me with respect. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The closure of a school is an insult to our future. Your Government bears great responsibility for aggravating territorial inequalities in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u229	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u230	Because these opportunities have not come up at all these days, I would like first of all to highlight the points of agreement. I have fully approved the duplication of the CP and EC1 classes in the priority education areas and look forward to the full results of the current evaluation. I hope, in view of the initial conclusions, that this logic will inspire all other levels of education. Beyond the evolution of educational objectives, I have never transacted on the triptych of fundamental knowledge, reading, writing, counting, to which, technological change obliges, I added click, as it has also become essential to sensitize students to the uses and precautions of use of digital tools. I am obviously in favour of the proposal to lower the age of compulsory education to 3 years, and even below. Already in 2005, an amendment had been adopted on my initiative to extend to the overseas regions the reception of children of two years of age provided for in Article L. 113-1 of the National Education Code. More recently, in 2016, we first included in legislation the possibility of making education compulsory at 3 years. It is precisely in the name of these convergences that I shall make a few remarks. France has become the world champion of social reproduction and the worrying correlation between school failure and social and territorial origins seems to be self-sustaining. Through subtle games of orientation, selection and localization, the school itself now generates inequalities, which explains the persistent mistrust of the new public international educational institutions, provided for in Article 6, despite your commitment to social mix. In La Réunion, where entire generations know what they owe to school but also where 40 per cent of the population lives below the poverty line, the issue of social determinism is sensitive and central. Our academy, where great advances coexist with persistent delays, is, if I may say so, a case of school. It is because it is less and less acceptable that 15% of the students in school are at least one year late from the EC1 and that, later, exits without qualifications are twice as high, that we believe it is essential to act as soon as possible, to settle the issue of financial compensation for the municipalities and to put the role and recognition of ATSEMs on the agenda beyond the decrees of March 2018. To create confidence in the school also means to consider the chaotic or even conflicting relations of the parents with the school institution, when it is not their disillusionment in the face of this republican promise of equal opportunities. School drop-out is often preceded by parental drop-out. Having run a nursery school for twenty years, I have become convinced that it is a school in itself. All the research shows that it is the preferred place for learning vocabulary and mastering language, thus strengthening its role in preventing inequalities. This research also reinforces the need for an appropriate approach when learning in a creolophone environment. In Reunion, the vast majority of children speak Creole and often only Creole. Marginalizing this reality amounts to endangering cognitive processes at work in the early years. Three examples from the only lexicon of family life bear witness to this. In our kindergartens, karo refers to iron, baro, portal, while our young speakers will go more kasé the mangoes than pick the cherries. The speech and grammatical structures also offer many examples. For this reason, although improvements have been made, it is imperative that all teachers in nursery classes have a command of the usual language of the children, so that ATSEMs no longer have to play the interpreters. The quasi-structural illiteracy in Réunion – not only is it at an always high level, but it also concerns more and more young people – is, if necessary, an additional argument for language learning in Réunion, too, to always be based on the child's experience and not to create in it a paralysing and penalizing linguistic insecurity. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] I will conclude with two suggestions, Minister. The first refers to the great historian Paul Veyne who advocates developing the artistic sensitivity of children by exposing, in schools, on the place of passage of the pupils, reproductions of works of art of life-size, so that they permeate them unconsciously. The second concerns orphaned pupils, whose situation is a blind point in public education policies, as confirmed by an EESC conference – the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – in 2017 and a recent documentary from France 5: all the testimonies acknowledge the difficulties of the school to accompany children facing the loss of a parent. May the new training framework integrate this dimension of human life, so that teachers no longer feel so deprived.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u231	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u232	The bill for the school of trust aims to strengthen two fundamental principles of our Republic: raising the general level of youth and ensuring more social justice. Many measures are already meeting these objectives, but we need to go even further. Strengthening equal opportunities requires support for young people and their families, from birth to integration. It is essential to build a coherent and qualitative educational path before, during and after school, by organising, with due respect for each other's skills, the complementarity of educational times. We must therefore foster and strengthen the commitment of the entire educational community – State, local authorities, parents, extracurricular associations, social workers, schools, colleges, lycées, CFA, or apprenticeship training centres – and thus lead a coordinated and collaborative approach, allowing the networking of all the different actors contributing to the success of the young person. The educational city project pursues this ambition. Without being formally mentioned in this bill, many of the measures before us are aimed at ensuring that no child is left on the road and that an educational continuum is facilitated. First of all, Article 2 concerns compulsory education from the age of 3. We know how different levels of language acquisition at the entrance to the preparatory course can have a negative impact on children's academic success. Pre-school education is the time when basic learning and future success are being prepared. Making compulsory the education of all children from the age of 3 is therefore a measure of social justice. In addition, an amendment adopted in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education aims to ensure the success of all schools. In order to ensure educational continuity between the first and second stages, to encourage the exchange of information, practices and services, which the priority education networks have partly allowed, it is necessary to create a legal structure: it is the ambition of the public institutions of basic knowledge. To give the opportunity, for example, to build a joint establishment project from kindergarten to the third, must make more fluid certain transitions, which, it is known, reinforce school failure, such as the link between the grades of CM2 and sixth. Another strong measure of social justice is compulsory training up to the age of 18. We must combat the inequalities of destiny and ensure that all young people acquire skills that facilitate their integration and development. We need to restore perspectives, dreams to our young people, take care of them, not just put them in the invisible column – 20,000 young dropouts, every year, are not accompanied. This training obligation will be based on both the young person, his family and the public authorities, who will have to offer support to any young child who has dropped out of school. As we have just demonstrated, this text creates the appropriate legislative framework to promote the educational continuum, this porosity. But all measures aimed at strengthening the success of our young people must be accompanied by a change in teacher training. The evolution of ESPE in INSPE carries with it this ambition. First of all, it seems to us essential to ensure that a common culture exists between all teacher training centres and between all first- and second-level teachers. This shared culture would thus strengthen the collective work needed to combat early school leaving. In addition, encouraging teachers to do more collaborative work seems essential to me: collaborating with peers, parents, local associations, sharing responsibility for the success of the young person with the whole community must be the foundation for the training of our teachers. In order to allow this change, for the school to open up to the territory, to organize itself around a collective pact, it is necessary to develop experimentation, research, to share and to share good practices. The future assessment board of the school, by evaluating the schools will help the teaching teams in this direction. It must be a tool of knowledge at the service of the educational community, of the progress of everyone and of equality among all. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Trust school, trust in our school. Our teachers are committed to everyday life, but too many young people leave our education system that is insufficiently trained and prepared for the challenges of today's world. We must collectively continue to meet this challenge, not to satisfy ourselves with half-measures, to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession and, more generally, of our school. Attractiveness must be achieved through the success of our education system, which will be assessed in the light of our ability to build a future for each of our young people. This ambition is real, and many of the measures in this bill illustrate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u233	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u234	Nœux-les-Mines, Beuvry, Sailly-Labourse, Houdain, Bruay-la-Buissière... In each of these communes in my constituency, in the Pas-de-Calais region, class closures carried out or planned in the near future deeply disturb territorial cohesion. A class, more than just a school population, is above all a symbol of the life of our territories, those territories which the President of the Republic seems to rediscover for a few weeks, but which we, elected from the field, survey every day with enthusiasm. Our ruralness is already suffering too much from the disappearance of multiple public services – post offices, hospital services, gendarmerie, courts of procedure. If you add to this the disappearance of our schools that will follow these class closures and the abolition of aided contracts, including those of school life assistants, yet necessary, you definitely kill any hope of reinvigorating these forgotten territories of the Republic. Your text is entitled "Bill for a School of Trust". But trust, minister, it is not a decree. For confidence in education to be regained, software must be changed and simple principles must be developed. The first of these principles is to consider that the role of the school is primarily to ensure the transmission of knowledge through the strengthening of basic learning. Our schoolchildren will never be able to approach the future calmly – their professional future, in particular – if they do not have a perfect command of French and mathematics. Being able to read, write and count must be the objectives of primary education. However, there is nothing in your bill that allows for concrete improvement on these aspects. The school as a place of transmission of knowledge must also have the objective of republican assimilation. The latter, which the supporters of the politically correct refuse, in the name of an alleged respect for the cultures of origin, is nevertheless the only one able to preserve both our national cohesion and the very development of the French of heart, who would be destined to join the national community. But for this to happen, it is obviously essential to master the French language. The fact that the mention of the mastery of our language has been removed from the current writing of the common knowledge base is a worrying sign. We shall therefore propose, by amendment, that it be restored. Teaching the history of France must also be at the heart of the assimilationist vocation of our school. Combating communalist retreats is primarily through learning, in the educational environment, about the love of France, and by promoting the glorious moments of its history. We must put an end to the unbearable repentance, which helps to create a sense of distrust. [[Walls on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Rather than enshrining in the bill the electoral gadget from lowering the age of compulsory education to 3 years, the Government would have been better inspired to tackle a real scourge that deeply undermines our school: I am of course thinking of the phenomenon of violence in schools. The only official number we have is 12.8 serious incidents per year per 1,000 students. No details of the facts, no geographical distribution, no precise information to better assess the problem, and therefore to better address it. This opacity is worrying given the importance of the phenomenon. According to an agency of the Ministry of Education, there are no fewer than 440 serious incidents per day in French schools. The dramatic episode of this video showing a student robbing his teacher with a weapon is, alas, the tragically banal illustration of the daily lives of many teachers, but it is also indicative of how these facts are treated by a certain hierarchy. While the answer should be firmness, including the removal of family allowances for parents of children who commit violence in schools – a measure that you yourself mentioned, Minister – but also the reorientation of these violent individuals, it was the ban on mobile phones in schools that was proposed. Shut up that truth I can't hear. This approach to problems is unbearable and must cease, as must the culture of omerta and excuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u235	Anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u236	"Schools must remain the inviolable asylum where men's quarrels do not penetrate. These wise words of Jean Zay should inspire any public policy regarding our school. Reconciling demand and benevolence, authority and spontaneity, security and freedom: these will be part of the challenges of tomorrow's school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u237	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u238	At the heart of the bill for a school of trust, which we are starting to examine this afternoon, there is a historic provision: lowering the age of compulsory education from 6 to 3 years. The obligation to investigate between the ages of 6 and 13 was one of the truly founding acts of our Republic. Twice extended, until the age of 14 and then 16 years, it will now apply, thanks to this bill, for the first time since Jules Ferry, to children under the age of 6. This flagship measure is a real lever to combat social inequalities, so that every child, regardless of his or her social background, has the same chance to succeed through kindergarten. This is an essential step in the pupils' journey in acquiring knowledge and knowledge of being. It enables every child to acquire the skills necessary to approach the learning of basic knowledge and to combat inequality in language. This is a major moment for the success of their schooling. Many studies have shown a strong correlation between school attendance at the age of 3 and student performance. At kindergarten, children learn the desire to go to school and the pleasure of learning; They assert themselves and flourish their personality there. It is a key moment when our children learn community life and live it together. Compulsory education from the age of three is an emblematic and extremely concrete measure, which will concern almost 26,000 children, mostly from disadvantaged backgrounds, and for whom this early education will be a real springboard. But kindergarten is also an essential step for parents, because that is where they become parents. It is at this point that they entrust their child for the first time to school. They entrust him to the teacher, of course, but also to ATSEM, a municipal agent who is an integral part of the kindergarten class. The teacher-ATSEM binome is a key to daily life in kindergarten. Thus, in kindergarten, the whole educational community takes shape. The bonds of trust that are then created must then be cultivated in order to continue throughout the child's schooling, especially during the transition to elementary school, a time when contacts between family and school are less daily, more distended than at kindergarten. By lowering the age of compulsory education in France to 3 years, this bill enshrines our nursery school. She is a woman, Marie Pape-Carpantier, who, in a way, invented the French nursery school. What a pride to know that it is recognized in the world and that, thanks to this text, it will finally take its full place in our code of education! Since the Ferry laws, education is compulsory in France, but it can be done at school or with the family. This will be the case from the start of the 2019 school year, starting at the age of 3. Our conviction is that everything begins with the right to education of every child, and that it is our duty to ensure that it is respected. I personally had the opportunity to understand this issue by carrying out a mission on school leaving last year with our colleague George Pau-Langevin. Progress on the subject of home education involves working on the link between these parents, who are involved in the education of their child, and the school institution. It is also a matter of trust. Nevertheless, we must guard against any angelism. There are situations where home-based education is diverted from its object in order to escape, in reality, the republican obligation of investigation. These situations are marginal, but they exist and we want to fight them. That is why this law will give the authorities concrete means to ensure that each child's right to education is respected, when the choice of parents is about family education; I'm glad. Finally, trust is built primarily with teachers. It is in this spirit that the school's assessment board is created, to accompany them in their assessment work. This council will define the methods of assessment of pupils and those of self-assessment of schools. These will be tools for teachers, in order to foster the collective challenge and innovation, as one teacher recently told me. For, far from monitoring or inspection, evaluation is above all a means of continuous improvement and progress, at the service of teachers and for the benefit of pupils. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The members of the La République en marche are proud and happy to work on this law, which aims to reaffirm the mutual trust between all the players in the educational community, to give our children more opportunities, to propose new tools to our teachers. It is a law for all members of our educational community, who work daily for our students. I am given the opportunity to thank them for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u239	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-11-O1142.u240	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Discussion of the bill for a school of trust. The meeting is adjourned.
