ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u1	The next item is the report of the Joint Committee on Energy and Climate (No 2193)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u2	Mr Cellier, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u3	Last July, the Joint Joint Committee on the Energy and Climate Bill was concluded. I am pleased that we have been able to reach agreement with the Senate on this bill on the crucial issues related to human beings and their environment – a fundamental bill that provides tools for each and every one of us to act against climate change. Throughout the proceedings, both in the Assembly and in the Senate, there were numerous amendments and constructive discussions, which made the text considerably richer. I will come back to some major advances. With this text, we have made the choice to strengthen our ambitions for the climate. Thus, Article 1 recognizes the existence of an "ecological and climate emergency". To address this, we plan to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. This is a deeply ambitious objective, which requires the total decarbonisation of our energies with a method. This means reducing our fossil energy consumption by 40% in 2030, i.e. ten years from now; to close our last four coal-fired plants by 2022, that is, in two years' time, while accompanying women and men who lose their working tools; to further develop renewable energies, what this text and the multiannual energy programming allow, from now on, by providing for an increase in hydropower production, a framework for green hydrogen, guarantees of origin for biogas and an increase in the share of solar energy or renewable heat. These ambitious goals must be aligned with realistic and pragmatic choices: that is why we are shifting from 2025 to 2035 the date when nuclear power will reach the 50% share in electricity generation. Beyond production, it is also our relationship to consumption that must now change and, first and foremost, to the concept of carbon footprint, the text of which sets reduction targets. Our energy consumption within housing must also be at the centre of our concerns. The construction sector accounts for almost 45 per cent of national energy consumption and nearly 26 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions. We have adopted a number of measures to combat heat sinks, including a three-step system: information on the energy consumption of housing, obligation to renovate, and sanction if necessary, in case of non-compliance with this obligation. We will define these sanctions in the five-year law on energy and climate policy, because – this is a victory achieved in the framework of this bill – it is Parliament that will now set France's objectives and priorities for action on energy and climate. The effort must be shared by all. We are strengthening the obligations of some investors, who will have to take better account of the environmental impact of their investments. Companies with more than 500 employees, the state and communities will have to establish, under penalty, a transition plan to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Finally, and this is an essential point, this text aims to decarbonize our economy, while at the same time accompanying all our citizens. In order to do so, too brutal increases in electricity bills must be avoided, by reconciling price stability with the maintenance of a fair remuneration for the historic nuclear fleet. Energy saving certificates and the fight against fraud should also be better regulated and aid for energy renewal should be simplified. This bill on energy and climate is a forward-looking text that affects the daily lives of French and French people. The measures contained therein will be reinforced and supplemented by the mobility policy bill, the finance bills, the follow-up to the High Climate Council, and the citizens' climate convention, which will, I am sure, promote the emergence of new concrete proposals. [[Applause on the bench of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jimmy Pahun also applauds]] I have already had the opportunity to stress this: this text will not solve everything, it is part of the solution. It is not enough to talk about climate and environmental issues, in the envious, as a mantra or as a semantic element. The impact of our choices and behaviour on the environment, as well as on the climate, must be, for us as for each of our fellow citizens, a reflex, even an obsession.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u4	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u5	The bill that brings us together today is a text of the future and of the truth. It is a new pillar of our ambition for ecological transition. It revises and sets ambitious targets for our climate and energy policy; It plans to reshape its governance and evaluation. More importantly, it gives concrete levers to achieve these objectives: reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, reducing our consumption, developing renewable energies and fighting thermal colanders. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The text had been criticized for its brevity: the debates had enriched it. I would like to commend the work of parliamentarians in strengthening and complementing it. I would also like to pay tribute to the commitment of François de Rugy, who defended this bill here. I would also like to thank the Joint Joint Committee for the remarkable work it has done, in order to arrive at the text presented to you today. The commitment to the climate challenge, ladies and gentlemen, we share it. The ecological and climate emergency that you wanted to include in the text illustrates it. That is why the President of the Republic has placed ecology at the heart of Act II of the quinquennium. As the Prime Minister told you in June, the coming months will be those of "ecological acceleration". This acceleration, you can count on me to carry it, carry it with you. With everyone's awareness of ecological issues, we need to be determined. I am, in order to find concrete answers and promote the necessary transformations. These answers, we must build them collectively with you, with the entire Government, with civil society, with the territories and with the social partners, because the ecological and solidarity transition is everyone's business. With this bill, the direction is clear: achieving carbon neutrality in the middle of the century. To achieve this, we must now redouble our efforts. First of all, we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels: to that end, we need to accelerate the reduction of their consumption. With this text, we are moving faster and aiming for a 40% reduction in 2030, not more than 30%. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] The ecological transition is not compatible with fossil fuels. Thanks to this law, we will close the country's last four coal-fired plants. This is the equivalent of 10 million tonnes of CO that we will avoid every year. The text also provides for the support of employees and territories. This is essential: ecological transition will only be possible if it is mutually supportive. To achieve carbon neutrality and the 33% renewable energy mix in 2030, we need to accelerate. It is the ambition of this text which, on the one hand, clarifies and expands the obligations to install photovoltaic panels in roofs and, on the other hand, allows them to be installed on motorways. France is fully committed to the large-scale development of renewable energies. This will speed up the deployment of wind turbines at sea. We allocated 600 megawatts last June. We now aim to increase the offshore wind capacity allocated by 2024 to 1 gigawatt.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u7	The industrial sector now has all the cards in hand to show that the ecological transition is also useful for the territories and for jobs. All these ambitions will not be realized without changing the governance and evaluation of our climate policy. That's why the text creates the High Climate Council – HCC. A body of independent scientific expertise capable of analysing all public policies, the HCC will be able to decide on their compliance with our objectives. It is a guarantee of transparency for the State. It will feed into the public debate. I also welcome Parliament's increased role in this area: from 2023 onwards, it will establish every five years the main objectives of our energy policy. While the ecological transition is everyone's business, it is obviously that of national representation. Assessing the ecological impact of our policies also means assessing the environmental impact of our financial laws, in particular their compatibility with France's commitments – I am thinking in particular of the Paris agreement. The green budget was a commitment made at the first environmental defence council: it is now enshrined in the law. This annual report, on which the HCC will deliver an opinion, will be provided to parliamentarians in advance of discussions on the finance bill to inform the debate. I talked about goals and governance. I would like to return to a very concrete element of this text: the fight against thermal colanders, which perfectly illustrates an ecology that brings concrete answers to improve daily life and gives results. Housing accounts for more than a quarter of our energy consumption. There can therefore be no transition without it: 4 million modest households live in thermal colanders and almost 15% of French people are cold in winter in their homes. This is therefore a major issue for the energy transition as well as for the quality of life of households and for purchasing power. We have a clear goal: the end of thermal colanders in 2028. The law provides for the progressive deployment of renovation obligations to allow owners to adapt. This is not about putting millions of households in trouble. We need to support households, better inform them and give them confidence in energy renewal. Audits will be mandatory as early as 2022 for thermal colanders, in order to know what work needs to be done to improve the energy performance of dwellings. On this major pillar of the transition, we cannot allow the development of dubious practices of poor renovations, which instill doubt among our fellow citizens. This is why the proposed law also strengthens the fight against fraud in energy saving certificates, so that every renovation is really useful for housing occupants and for the climate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-I groups]] For months, young people, civil society, experts and scientists have been mobilising at an unprecedented level to bring about an ecological demand. This text provides additional response elements to their appeal. Today, thanks to the latter, national representation and the Government decree the ecological and climate emergency and provide concrete responses. To meet the challenge of ecological transition, we have a responsibility to act on all levers, from the smallest to the largest, from individual to collective, from the thermal insulation of dwellings to the closure of coal-fired power plants. That is our ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u8	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u9	It is obvious that you do not understand what the ecological emergency in which we find ourselves means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u10	What a condescendence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u11	The bill before us again is inconsequential and inadequate to meet the challenges of climate and the massive loss of biodiversity, which are both immense and pressing. That is why I defend in this forum its outright rejection, with a view to resuming the work on a more serious basis. I hope, at least, that when you introduce such a bill, you do not think that it is enough or that it is up to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u12	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u13	I haven't decided what's worst yet, between refusing to do anything and not doing anything, thinking that action is enough. In both cases, the consequences will be the same. It is well with the foreseeable consequences, and more and more certain when inaction is queen, that we must judge this type of futile political gesticulation. Climate change must be fought with all the energy that must be given to us by the desire to survive and the desire to live well. With climate change, there is no compromise, no half-measure, no soft and inconsistent center. The old policy of arrangements with reality, which is so important to you when it comes to denying the disastrous social effects of your policies, no longer works. And I tell you very clearly: it no longer works socially or ecologically. This is the message you send to the dropouts of Emmanuel Macron's portraits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u14	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u15	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This morning, I was with nine of them. For a peaceful and symbolic action that denounces the social and ecological inaction of the Government, they risk five years in prison and 75,000 euros in fine! It is unacceptable that whistleblowers should be brought to justice for defending the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u16	"Alert launchers"? Delinquents!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u17	Where's Monsanto's trial when he poisons us? Where is the trial of Lafarge and the other cement makers when they pollute and cement the land we need so much? Where is Total's trial, which continues to extract all the fossil fuels that must remain underground?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u18	In France, justice is independent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u19	Above all, where is your case, to you who persevere in ecological inaction and in this free trade policy, notably with the CETA – Comprehensive economic and trade agreement – the JEFTA – Japan-EU free trade agreement – and the treaty, to come, with Mercosur – Mercado común del Sur – who condemn us all? Know that people have plans other than to be buried quietly! If we were to take only one example of the total emptiness of this bill, it would be enough to recall your climate goals. For 2030, you are urging the European Union to revise its targets upwards, but you are not doing anything about it for France. You are limited to a 2030 target, largely insufficient to stay below the 1.5 degree warming threshold compared to the pre-industrial era. On the other hand, by 2050, and without any binding roadmap, you are presenting an upward target, although the term used can be used for debate. Still it is that you say: carbon neutrality for 2050! In 2050, I will be 61 years old and Emmanuel Macron, 72 years old.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u20	[[Smile]] And I'll be dead!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u21	And Jean-Luc, how old will he be? Something like 130, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u22	I hope that in the meantime we will have been able to do the work you refuse to carry out, and to undertake ecological planning if necessary in our country. But you realize that there is no sense in committing to 2050 without any plan to achieve the target. Listen to me, again: how do you explain this formidable gap between the stagnation of greenhouse gas emission reductions by 2030 and a revised target up to 2050? How can we further reduce our emissions by 2050 if we do not begin to reduce them further by 2030? Explain to us, I insist. Which time machine to travel, what chronological inversion of the calendar, what fantastic disruptive invention, to take up a term that is dear to you, are you going to propose to overcome this contradiction? No doubt, more prosaically, manage the shop hoping to have disappeared from the landscape once the storm of climate change came. That said, you manage, in doing so, only your shop, your small partisan interest; In this bill, there is no question of the necessary transition to 100% renewable energy and the end of nuclear power in France. No, the nuclear risk doesn't seem to worry you more than that. Nor is the maintenance of the nuclear power plant, because there is no evidence that EDF is now able to maintain aging power plants that you refuse to close. Perhaps you will be seduced by the sirens of the usual technicalist solution, automatic reflex and rarely relevant. Since climate change is coming upon us, let us keep nuclear power, sing these unreasonable voices. This summer, during which the water resources were in tension and the level of our rivers abnormally low, four reactors had to be shut down. And forty of our fifty-eight reactors depend, for their supply, on river waters: the lower the level of these, the more water stress, on all activities, increases. In this context, the fact that EDF consumes 22% of the country's annual net water consumption should ask us about your inertia in this area. Climate change is thus putting nuclear power generation at risk. And the problem of falling river levels is not just upstream. In fact, downstream of the production process, the water is discharged into the rivers, which can increase the temperature if they reach too low a level, and thereby damage the fauna and flora. In other words, nuclear loses on the climate change table and causes us to lose on the biodiversity table. In the face of this, you keep your distance from the reduction in the share of nuclear power, whereas a reduction of half of this energy source in electricity generation is, according to several TEN scenarios – the electricity transmission network – to name but this body, quite possible, while lowering our greenhouse gas emissions. How do you think, in these circumstances, that you are showing a sense of State and that in the medium term you are considering the interests of the republican homeland of the French, instead of achieving mediocre compromises guided by private interests? Your approach to nuclear power brings new proof that you do not make any mention of the social majority. Once again, while the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Safety and Security of Nuclear Facilities had instructed you to do nothing for the subcontracting workers in the sector, who, increasingly disadvantaged, are obliged to work under increasingly dangerous conditions of health and protection. But they do 80% of nuclear activities: that's why I was talking to you about "social majority". But for her, you have nothing but contempt, and therefore do nothing for these subcontracting workers. Whatever your political options, you must know: neither the continuation of the park nor the transition to 100% renewable energy is conceivable without them. Not content with managing only your store, you consider the state to be another one, without making a clear difference between your property and common property. The State is not for sale, we are not for sale, and we do not agree that you continue to loot it constantly: Paris airports, La Française des jeux, Alstom's energy branch and, before you, highways: that's enough! We all know, and the press has echoed this in recent months, the new project you have in mind. It has a very simple formula: privatisation of renewable sectors and nationalization of the nuclear sector. In other words: privatisation of profits and nationalization of losses. The state's widespread warehousing is at its peak: you sell annuities to redeem debts. In other words, you are robbing the Republic of which you are supposed to serve the general interest. To this, I see only one explanation, that very one that makes your actions consistent since the beginning of this quinquennium: you are not the party of the Marchers or of what else, you are the party of the money, the party of the robbers of common goods! The powers of money do not embarrass themselves with environmental considerations; It's not something new. It is in this context that the general dismantling of the public energy service is part of the process. However, the battle for nationalization of energy has not come from anywhere. The electricity giants, before 1945, used and abused their power by maintaining very high tariffs for the population. In the event of a major ecological tension in the energy market, you know as I do what privatization of the energy sector means: only the richest, and in some places, will be entitled to energy. If it is a public service regulated and organised according to the demands of our fellow citizens, then solidarity is possible, and critical times are those where we stick together. EDF's employees will mobilize on 19 September to prevent the continued looting: I address to them, from this Chamber, a fraternal and solidarity-based greeting. In the energy sector as in the others, it is the same struggle that is being waged, between the supporters of liberal individualism, the dream of a society of atoms detached from one another and the awareness of our social and solidarity nature, every individual we are. The gradual dismantling, already largely under way, of the public energy service will increase the inequalities between rich and poor, between centres and peripheries. You are building a world reserved only for the rich who live in the centres, but you will soon remember the existence of the poor in the peripheries. We will remind you of the conditions necessary for a dignified existence. Finally, I want to say a word about the means to be put in place in the event that you accept the rejection of the text. It is time to organize the ecological planning that the country needs. If you want to reach the 100% renewable energy target by 2050, if you want to reduce emissions from freight transport between nations, if you want to change our consumption patterns, then we need to change our production patterns. On the renovation of housing, when will you commit the necessary public investment to fight against thermal colanders? The pace is insufficient and no significant progress is being made in this bill. It is almost 800,000 dwellings a year that must be renovated: this is not going to happen on its own, thanks to the grace of the "holy market". For the public power, the time has come to devise, in a democratic way, a vast plan to serve the greatest task ever proposed to humanity, that of surviving the chaos that it is producing. We need to think together, to act together, and to do so, to further socialise the key means of production, since the energy sector is just one example among others. You do the opposite, and your belief in the market's ability to meet the ecological challenge is just as dangerous as it is irrational. We oppose the certain and assured approach of the citizens who, defending the Social Republic and fraternity, know that only these principles of action can guide us towards a living future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u23	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mrs Nathalie Sarles has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u24	I am speaking on behalf of the La République Group on the move. As has been said, this bill on energy and climate represents an ambitious step in the fight against climate change. Yet, ladies and gentlemen of La France, you propose that we reject it! To vote on this rejection motion is not to recognize the ecological and climate emergency and its inclusion in the law; it is refusing to target the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050; It also means preventing national representation from setting the priorities for action of the national energy policy for the next PPE – multi-annual energy programming – in 2023. Not to vote for this text is to reject the new measures on thermal coffers, the closure of coal-fired power stations and the social support of their employees; It means refusing the development of offshore wind turbines, the development of low-carbon renewable hydrogen, the possibility of installing photovoltaic panels along roads or imposing them on buildings. To reject this text is also to reject a green budget; It is to refuse the expertise of the High Council for Climate and it is to refuse the facilitation of energy communities and transparency on energy saving certificates. It is to refuse to amend the rules which lead to an increase in electricity tariffs, to the detriment of the purchasing power of the French. Of course, it is always tempting to criticize, to shout that we are not going far enough, not strong enough. But the text before us includes advances in the preservation of our environment and the protection of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – MM. Bruno Millienne and Antoine Herth also applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, I urge you not to vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u25	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u26	It is regrettable that the consensus reached in the CMP has not given way, as you have claimed, Madam Minister, to an emergency text on the climate problem, but to a minimum text: I am thinking in particular of the ten-year extension of the level of nuclear power. I will come back to that in the general debate, and this bill does not meet the overall expectations of our fellow citizens, nor does it meet the climate emergency. We still regret, Madam Minister, that we have not received a multiannual energy programming text. It is indeed up to national representation to speak on such a strong subject. Nevertheless, I think it is necessary to move forward. With this in mind, the LR Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u28	Bravo! That's a responsible attitude!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u29	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u30	The MODEM and related groups, which fully endorsed the climate emergency which our fellow citizens have become aware of, will not vote for this rejection motion defended by Mrs Panot. I want to speak to those who think that we will respond to this urgency by opposing each other. Of course, there is a climate emergency. However, I would like to take a concrete example, which affects me personally. There is in my constituency a company of 700 employees, the Fonderies du Poitou, oriented towards the manufacture of diesel engines. While these employees also share the conviction that there is a climate emergency, they are also concerned about their professional future. We, the majority, must propose to them a future that requires a path that will provide them with adequate answers that reconcile their professional future, their end of month and the climate emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] This bill, by defining trajectories, is, given the situation, the best answer we can provide. We, members of the Democratic and Related Group, will oppose the motion for rejection and we invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u31	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u32	When this text was presented to us, it included only a small number of articles: eight. There are now fifty-five of them. The substantive work of parliamentarians should be highlighted in order to enrich the text and increase its ambition. The closure of the last coal-fired power plants by 2022 represents a step that it was time to take. In the face of the climate challenge, we must take concrete and strong action. The time for half-decisions has passed, we are all aware of it. Although real shortcomings remain, particularly with regard to the ecological transition of buildings, the improvements made to the text over the course of the readings should nevertheless be highlighted. This includes the recognition of an environmental emergency, the strengthening of the obligations to produce renewable energy in the roof and the over-equipment of hydropower plants. If, as I have said, this text does not yet seem sufficient, it cannot be denied that it has improved over time – moreover, the rapporteur has been very open when considering certain amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, MODEM and LaREM groups]] In any event, it cannot be said that there is no need for debate or that the text is intrinsically dangerous. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u33	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u34	Mrs. Panot's plea has not convinced us. Unfortunately, it has once again poured into the amalgam, confusing ecological urgency and ecological imperative – a term that I often hear used on the banks of unsuspecting France. To speak of an imperative is to say that one imposes, that one does not discuss, that one does not negotiate. The difference is the same as between a liberal democracy and a popular democracy. We are pleased to be in a liberal democracy, to be able to debate, to negotiate the right pace and to make the right choices while remaining firmly on course. That is the purpose of this text, and we welcome it. You mentioned, Mrs. Panot, the fate of the nuclear workers. I would point out that one of the reasons which led to the decision to decouple the closure of Fessenheim and the commissioning of Flamanville was precisely the need to schedule professional conversions and to care for the fate of the families of those who work on this industrial site. So you should know, Mrs. Panot, that this concern is also ours. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will obviously vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u35	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u36	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u37	We could recognise ourselves in part of the reflections given by the La France group on the urgent need to act in the field of climate and energy. In fact, a few weeks ago we were very numerous to listen to the IPCC Vice-Chair, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, accompanied by young Greta Thunberg.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u38	Display!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u39	It could therefore be considered that the work that has been undertaken by the Government but that some of us do not support, this work that has been submitted to the National Assembly and the Senate and which has resulted in the text that we are going to consider in a few moments, is not the answer to the challenges. I confirm this – in fact, the Libertés et territoires group will speak later on the subject: it is not up to it. However, does this mean that we must step back and do nothing? For my part, I believe that society as a whole is asking us to move forward in this area. We must therefore seize the opportunity to discuss this text, upon the return of a CMP on which everyone can give their opinion. It must be noted that progress has been made, but to date everything has not been stopped. To deny the work that has been done, by refusing the step on which we could support before going further, cannot be the position of the Freedom and Territory Group. Our group will be critical, but we will continue to build, with shared confidence, including with the Government and our parliamentary colleagues. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on certain benches of the LaREM group]] We will therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u40	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u41	[[Exclaims and laughter]] We will vote in favour of the motion of rejection that we have tabled – that will not surprise you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u42	What a consistency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u43	[[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] My colleague from La République on the move claims that if we put forward a rejection motion, we are against the state of ecological and climate emergency. In fact, in a motion for a resolution we planned to state this: we are therefore not against it. On the other hand, and that is the difference between us, we do not want to pretend to do something. [[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The honourable Member then said something interesting: if we adopt the motion to reject it, it would be to refuse renewable energies – offshore wind turbines etc. So I will explain why your bill, and more broadly your policy, will not promote renewable energy. The Minister of State had even stated, at first reading, that a new nuclear programme could be considered. But as long as we continue on the road to nuclear power, we will not invest in renewable energy. It is therefore you who are actually going to vote against renewable energies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u44	Well, that's it! What a turnaround! We are the ones who record their development in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u45	If you read the press a little bit, perhaps you know that Greenpeace published today a report on the real cost of nuclear waste: these could weigh on EDF's budget of EUR 15 billion. I tell you and say again: the current nuclear programme, first, is not resilient to climate change, second, it costs so much – especially because of the great carenage that has to be carried out – that it prevents us from investing and makes us take a considerable delay in the field of renewable energies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u46	That's not true! Why don't you explain this to EDF electricians?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u47	On the other hand, you didn't listen to everything I said, IUD-I's colleague. What I said was that we had to develop ecological planning – rest assured: that's what we were doing before; ecological planning, it is not the Soviets who land! This democratically managed plan would determine precisely how to create the 900000 jobs needed for the energy transition, how to train people and ensure that the investments made are focused on the sobriety, efficiency and energy transition we need. All this would be decided in a democratic way, I insist. Last thing: I disagree with the LT colleague when he says, "Better than nothing."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u48	For you, it's revolution or nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u49	I do not agree with a bill that continues to open up to competition and leaves Total – among other things – deciding on our energy future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u50	If you disagree with the bill, vote against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This future, we must decide for ourselves, and that is why we will oppose this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u52	Systematic opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u53	Vote against, but don't stop others from moving!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u54	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u55	As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Communist Group have some differences with our colleagues in France in this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u56	More and more...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u57	However, we will assume our responsibilities and vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u58	[[Smile]] I'm disappointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u59	I would like to tell you, IUD-I's colleague, that we are so much in a liberal democracy that at this very moment, the Members of the Republic that we are are no more or less shunted, with regard to the future of the major industrial tool of EDF, since this future is being discussed without you, ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the majority, and a fortiori without us, the members of the opposition. Indeed, at this very moment, we are discussing, in Brussels, the complete disintegration of the EDF Group, a major instrument of our country's energy policy for decades. That's what's going on! What are you doing? Well, you will quietly pass a bill that, in addition to suffering from major tares – I will come back to it during my speech in general discussion – hides from the French Members, by not blowing a word, which is being decided at this very moment in Brussels, when it concerns our national heritage. This is not the first time you have done this, but you will understand that, for this simple reason, notwithstanding what I shall say in general discussion, the Communist Group will vote in favour of the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u60	In the general debate, Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u61	Affirming the climate emergency, strengthening the objectives of energy policy, combating heat sinks, improving the control of energy prices: this is the ambition of the draft law on energy and climate. As part of the continuity of the Paris Agreement, the climate plan and the law that put an end to exploration and the exploitation of hydrocarbons, it illustrates the will of our majority to accelerate the ecological transition. On 25 July, the Joint Joint Committee reached an agreement. I would like to acknowledge the intense work that has been done with the Senate, particularly by our two rapporteurs, Anthony Cellier and Nathalie Sarles, which resulted in a compromise text. This text illustrates our will and, at the same time, our pragmatism on energy issues. The goal of carbon neutrality in 2050, the 40% reduction in primary energy consumption of fossil fuels, the 50% reduction in the share of nuclear energy in our energy mix in 2035 and the closure of coal-fired power plants in 2022 are measures that have been shaped by our vision of what the society of tomorrow should be. The ecological emergency is here. The efforts we must make are still important, but we must not lose sight of the fact that the transition to a new model must be fair and inclusive. It must be done in practice, right now. The La République en marche group has tabled important amendments, which I have defended and which respond to our desire to send strong messages on subjects which affect the French on a daily basis and which are not simple: energy renewal, the support of employees and the territories affected by the closures of coal-fired power plants, the participation of citizens and territories in the ecological transition, as well as the development of renewable energies, particularly photovoltaics, and the support for certain developing sectors, such as hydrogen or biogas. On the other hand, we have achieved a major step forward through the establishment of a five-year energy and climate law, a proposal which had been formulated for several months by a group of LaREM Members. This will finally enable Parliament to give its opinion on the matter. Let us be proud of the work done. It is only the beginning of the road that must lead us to tomorrow's energy, a sober, efficient and environmentally friendly energy. I would like to thank the various actors who participated in the drafting and discussion of the bill, particularly François de Rugy. I welcome the commitment of both the majority and the opposition to the ecological emergency. I hope that this concern will govern our work in the House for the rest of the Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The La République group will of course vote in favour of the agreement reached on the bill. See you during the review of the finance bill to finalize its financial aspects!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u62	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u63	The summer was marked by ecological issues. I assure you: I am not thinking of Greta Thunberg crossing the Atlantic by boat, nor of her return by plane with her attendants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u64	We still had to make this crossing of the Atlantic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u65	She's not back yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u66	There have been otherwise more serious events, with, far from home, the dramatic fires in the Amazon, and, near us, a heat wave that has caused 1500 deaths and destroyed some agricultural and wine crops in our country. This summer, climate change has been a harsh reality for many French people. In this increasingly new context, the Energy and Climate Bill is of particular importance. He embraces many subjects. Some of the proposed measures are positive; others less. In any case, we can welcome the agreement reached at the Joint Committee meeting. It is always a good signal and it underscores the quality of parliamentary co-construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u68	I regret that the increase in the ceiling of the ARENH – Regulated access to historical nuclear energy – has led the representatives of our group to vote against the text of the CMP. It is a shame that we could have adopted it unanimously. One of the main objectives of the bill is to postpone from 2025 to 1935 the date on which nuclear power will account for 50% of national electricity production. In the 2015 discussion of the Green Growth Energy Transition Bill, we warned about a timetable that we felt was neither feasible nor desirable. The deadline is now extended, and let me tell you, minister, that I think it will be again by 2035. I'll bet it in front of you. Against the prevailing thought, let me clearly reaffirm the Republicans' support for nuclear energy, its industry, and the men who make it on a daily basis. It is a clean energy that is necessary to achieve carbon neutrality. Clearly, France must rely on nuclear energy to take the time to build a safe energy mix. I stress that climate emergencies should not be confused with environmental emergencies. Today, we want to find ways to respond to the climate emergency, which necessarily involves maintaining our nuclear potential. In this regard, we recognize that there are a number of advances in the bill. I am thinking of methanization, which can diversify and secure the incomes of our farmers. Similarly, we welcome the fact that hydrogen has finally been taken into account by several governments in the recent period. In any case, minister, we thank you for this progress. We are also pleased that the Senate has introduced provisions to encourage small hydropower. The number of kilowatt hours it produces may not be impressive, but this already existing natural energy is the one that emits the least CO. Let us hope that the text will facilitate the operation of the 19,000 small mills in our territories, which sometimes encounter some hostility from the administration. I would add that we need these dams, which are used as rainwater reservoirs, which are very useful in times of drought. On the other hand, we reaffirm our wish to abandon the construction target of 15,000 wind masts in metropolitan France by 2028. All of these topics will be at the heart of the PP. It is, however, particularly shocking that it is not being debated in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u69	We voted it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u70	Beyond the key issue of the energy mix, the bill expanded during the parliamentary shuttle. Without pretending to be exhaustive, I would like to review various points. Of course, we support the closure of the coal-fired power plants by 2022, which we called for. However, the employees concerned will have to be accompanied. We are also in favour of positive energy construction. In this regard, allow me to greet one of the pioneers in this area, Elithis, a French group from my region, since he is based in Dijon. We also support the abolition of regulated gas and electricity tariffs, which meet European objectives. However, consumer concerns about a possible price surge will have to be heard. Finally, there are the energy saving certificates – the EECs – on which we will have to rework to better combat fraud. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Claims on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Despite this, this bill unfortunately falls short of the universally recognized climate emergency. To show that we need to go even faster and stronger, as the text stands, we will be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u71	You disappoint me! Your fellow senators have had more reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u72	[[Smile]] That's why they're senators!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u73	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u74	Just a few days away from the UN Climate Action Summit to be held on 23 September in New York, and on the eve of COP25 held in Chile next November, we, representatives of the French nation, are again coming to speak on the draft law on energy and climate. First of all, I would like to highlight the trans-party work carried out in perfect complementarity between the two chambers. Meeting at the end of July, following Parliament's first reading of the text, the Joint Joint Committee reached agreement on a joint drafting of the bill. I am deeply pleased to have been able to take part in the agreement reached between the Assembly and the Senate on the arrangements that remain under discussion. In view of the urgency of the matter, as partisan differences have been overcome, this is a good sign for our democracy. The first step in the bill is to define and affirm the principle of carbon neutrality by 2050. This legal definition is a first in French law. Very concretely, greenhouse gas emissions, which are particularly responsible for global warming, should not exceed what the earth can absorb. This principle is of fundamental importance to me, as to many of our fellow citizens. In referring to this subject, it is difficult not to think, with a tight heart, of the ecological disaster that we are witnessing impotent: I am of course thinking of the destruction of the Amazon forest. However, setting the principle of carbon neutrality by 2050 would make no sense if we were not at the same time seeking to reduce our consumption of fossil fuels. That is why the future Energy and Climate Act provides for the reduction of our fossil energy consumption by 40% by 2030, and the final closure of coal-fired power plants by 2022. However, the planned decline in fossil fuels must be accompanied by the development of clean energy. The aim of the text is to act in this direction, by increasing the capacity of wind turbines at sea by 1 gigawatt, and by promoting the development of small hydropower. However, the development of these alternatives should not be done in a disorganised manner. It is a matter of their full and complete acceptance by our society. That is why, and this choice of a "at the same time" is to be welcomed, the text aims to preserve our coastline from the installation of solar panels to avoid further urbanization of fragile environments, while in some cases introducing the obligation to install energy devices on the roofs of new commercial buildings. Nevertheless, work will still be done on the acceptability of certain projects. I am thinking in particular of wind turbines, which cause a great deal of tension in the territories. I expect, Madam Minister, that we will be able to work on this in the future. The bill also enshrines the importance of nuclear power, which has enabled France to achieve a broad autonomy of its energy production. As part of the search for a more diversified energy mix, we have learned that nuclear will only account for 50% of total production by 2035. This deadline, rather than 2025, makes it possible to build a credible transition without making it necessary, for example, to build gas-fired power plants, which would have been in total contradiction with our climate ambitions. The future law has also given rise to an increase in the volume and price of regulated access to historical nuclear energy. It is a form of guarantee given to industrialists whose activity would suffer the impact of too high costs of electricity. Let's salute this choice! As the best energy is the energy that is not consumed, a series of amendments have been added to the bill, allowing for major advances in information on energy renovation work, the fight against fraud in energy saving certificates and the fight against heat sinks. Improving citizens' information will also require the sustainability of the High Climate Council, which will be responsible for assessing the implementation of public policies to reduce France's greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in comparison with third countries. Many of the measures in this text may seem technical; However, they are essential in the fight for the climate. In particular, they allow the definition of fine trajectories, which are regularly evaluated to break out of the dependence on carbon-based energies. That is why we have decided that before 1 July 2023, and every five years thereafter, a law will set the priorities for action of the national energy policy to respond to the environmental and climate emergency. The stakes are clear: it is a question of having a better readability, and above all a better accessibility of the energy objectives set by France. Thus, voting this bill today is undoubtedly a strong response that is expected by our fellow citizens, reflecting an effort to continue and expand. The heatwave episodes we experienced this summer, Hurricane Dorian in the Bahamas or the murderous typhoon that has just hit Japan are all proof that urgent action is needed. Churchill used to say that it is better to take the change by hand before he takes us by the throat: let us not forget that the cost of protecting the natural environment is much lower than that of its reconstruction! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] By voting in favour of the draft law on energy and climate, the MODEM and related groups intend not only to act, but also to prevent tomorrow's tragedies. For all these reasons, he will vote for this text, which we hope will be adopted by a large majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u75	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u76	In his general policy speech on 12 June, the Prime Minister suggested that France would enter a new era in the field of ecological transition, a transition of which the bill before us today would be a necessary vector. We stressed at first reading the inadequacies of this text and its lack of ambition: lack of intermediate targets on carbon trajectories; lack of measures relating to the production of renewable energy; Lack of housing measures, the main energy-using sector, or the absence of truly binding measures. It is therefore unsurprising that the bill went from twelve to fifty-five articles, between the original text, tabled on April 30 last in the Assembly, and supplemented by a letter of amendment, and that which was transmitted to the Senate. Among the new provisions adopted, our political group had taken a position in favour of those relating to the problem of the transition of the housing stock. We were at the forefront of the matter and had proposed to you a comprehensive scheme, which included a timetable for the resorption of thermal colanders, a mechanism to support modest households, proposed by our colleague Jean-Louis Bricout – a mechanism seated on a reimbursable advance system at the time of the transfer of the property – and a binding arrangement with a ban on the rental of energy colanders on a reasonable horizon. We regret that most of these three major projects have been excluded in the debates. Of course, the majority has finally set a timetable by 2027 for dwellings classified as F and G. However, in the absence of new financing or enforcement measures, it remains essentially in line with intentions. No one imagines tomorrow that a form of "designating and denouncing" – to avoid speaking English – is enough to block the transaction of goods that do not comply with standards. On the other hand, some of our proposals had been accepted. My colleague Dominique Potier had thus hoped that the search for energy sobriety and the definition of carbon budgets would be included in the multiannual energy programming. He had also defended the publication of a roadmap for digital energy sobriety. Unfortunately, these provisions were rejected by the Senate. We were also proposing, like other colleagues, to declare the climate emergency and to draw lessons from it by adopting measures to amplify the obligations of installations for renewable energy production equipment, in particular on roofs and car parks. For my part, I had supported a legislative provision, which was voted on, to encourage over-equipment for hydroelectric facilities. This measure will allow for increased power and modernisation of infrastructure, without calling into question concession periods or economic advantage, with little or no environmental impact. In this regard, Mr rapporteur, I very sincerely wish to welcome your attitude and your method...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u77	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u78	... which have made it possible, despite our differences, to move forward on certain issues, and sometimes to convert the Government to a little more openness. As a result of the work then done by our colleagues in the Senate, we were confident that a new reading would allow us to clarify the measures taken, particularly with respect to habitat and renewable energy. Unfortunately, the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee was particularly disappointing. While reading the conclusions of the CMPs are most often an opportunity to praise quality work, sitting on a subtle balance between the aspirations of the two chambers, I must, alas, tell you our disappointment at seeing the CMP – I was present – turn into a retreat from Russia: the regression was clear from the changes made to the text by senators, and even from the provisions adopted here at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u79	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u80	While positive measures have been incorporated or retained in the final text, we lack financial resources and coercive measures. Some provisions are incomplete, such as the early raising of the ARENH ceiling without updating the price. Others are not acceptable, such as the removal of regulated gas and electricity tariffs. That is why the Socialist and related group will abstain from voting, as it did at first reading. We will also continue, as soon as the next finance bill comes, to defend a true ambition for the ecological transition, commensurate with the challenges, particularly in the construction sector, through a holistic and funded mechanism. Indeed, if this text marks an additional step towards a just and socially balanced ecological transition, it cannot be an end. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Ms Jeanine Dubie also applauds]] We will also ensure that, within the framework of the guidelines laid down by the President of the Republic for the reorganization of the EDF group, the hydroelectric sector is sanitized within a public service, for all the reasons I have mentioned for several years, which the minister knows very well and which I will not repeat here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u81	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u82	If the UDI and independent group welcomes the fact that the Joint Joint Committee has been able to reach an agreement, and if the text before us actually changes the objectives of our multi-annual energy programming, it will not have allowed us to debate the substance of our country's energy choices: we have not discussed the place of nuclear power, gas-fired power plants, wind energy – land or sea – or methanisation, among other things. Recognize that it's a little too bad. We share the objective of decarbonised energy production, but we may have differences about how carbon neutrality can be achieved in 2050. Indeed, this laudable objective could lead to a transfer of burdens to the detriment of agriculture, which would eventually be required to absorb carbon emissions that other sectors would not have managed to reduce as they should. It is therefore essential that parliamentarians continue to be able to debate the orientations of our energy policy, since the decisions taken are not consensual and can lead to clashes between sectors whose interests diverge. Fortunately, this will be possible, thanks to the tenacity of the deputies, but only in 2023 – a somewhat distant perspective, but it is already a first step. In particular, we could have discussed nuclear energy, which is an asset in the fight against climate change. In this regard, we share your wish to postpone from 2025 to 2035 the target of 50% nuclear energy in the electricity mix, against 70% today: this is a much more realistic deadline. We would also have liked to discuss the other energies which raise problems of social acceptability, in particular the Earth's wind, which has led, in places, to a real pitting of the territory. We look forward to the upcoming closure – by 2022 – of the last four French coal-fired power plants, which account for one third of the greenhouse gas emissions from our electricity generation, for just 1% to 2% of our electricity mix. We are also relieved of the deletion of Article 4 quater, which had been added by the National Assembly. The future High Council for Climate, whose text endorses creation, will have to play an important role, in order to direct our public policies towards a true energy transition of society. His first report is enlightening: the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050 is, he says, "technically feasible but involves a profound transformation of the economy and society on a large scale". But – you will certainly agree, minister – the bill does not release enough energy to fuel such a profound transformation, even if it goes in the right direction. One of the levers to be used is housing. On this essential subject, many provisions have been added during the legislative process and the guidance is the right one. According to the study TREMI – energy renovation of individual houses – by ADEME – Agency for the Environment and Energy Management –, among the 5 million individual houses that underwent renovations between 2014 and 2016, only a quarter jumped at least one class of DPE – energy performance diagnosis – while the remaining three quarters did not improve their energy performance, despite EUR 36.3 billion in investments over the period; It's pretty disturbing. I hope that this situation will soon be part of the past, thanks to your ambition, which we support, to improve the governance and management of energy renewal, in particular through the accompanying service for energy renewal that you launched this week. It will be necessary for the public money spent to produce concrete results – the current experiences being soon, at least I hope, only unfortunate memories. In any case, it is absolutely necessary to improve the management and efficiency of our public policies in this area. Finally, with regard to the ARENH system, the text provides a short-term solution, while we would like to see the end of a system that works imperfectly. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] In total, if, in our view, the text does not revolutionize our energy policy, it nevertheless proposes interesting measures. You said it, Madam Minister, it's a pillar. In this respect, he deserves to be welcomed and that is why we will support him, thanking the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur for ensuring that all opinions are expressed in a balanced manner during the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u83	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u84	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u85	I went to a trial this morning, that of nine non-violent environmental activists who were brought before a correctional court for theft in a meeting – I hope that at this hour they are released, and I greet them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u86	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u87	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u88	What could they have done serious enough to risk five years in prison and a fine of 75,000 euros, so that the counter-terrorism office could be seized?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u89	They attacked the institutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u90	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] They dared to get portraits of the President. By leaving the location of these portraits empty, they wanted to draw attention to the void of its environmental and social policy. In fact, I note that you are devoting more energy to suppressing environmental activists than to transforming the French energy model. They acted in keeping with the long tradition of civil disobedience, to sound the alarm about the climate emergency. Did you hear that alarm? Did you hear her when the IPCC told us that we had 12 years left to act? Have you heard her even at one of the hundreds of meetings, COPs, summits, Grenelle and symposia where we keep repeating the same numbers and shouting at urgency? Do you sometimes have to be sounded yourself by realizing the extent of the gap between the goals to be achieved to save the planet and the catastrophic results of the policies you continue to pursue? Listening to your beautiful speeches, we have the impression that you are aware of it; you even accept the inclusion in the law of the concept of ecological and climate emergency. But apparently, in your world, the word "emergency" does not have the same meaning as in ours. It seems that, for you, to deal with the emergency, it is to postpone everything, vaguely promising that someone will eventually take care of it one day,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u91	It won't be you, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u92	...preferably in several decades, when it is no longer time. It is precisely this type of policy, those of the eyes and the promises whose realization is forever postponed, which has led us to the climate catastrophe that we are facing today. Yet there are solutions: you are not even asked to invent them! Many associations, thousands of scientists, activists and volunteers work tirelessly to build and defend them, such as the negaWatt association, with its precise energy transition scenario, which makes the target of 100% renewable energy available in France in 2050. Instead of listening to them and being up to the stakes of your time, you choose to stagnate and even step back. In this way, you carry forward your own goals of reducing the share of nuclear energy in electricity generation for ten years without shame. At the same time you make possible long and precious additional years of inaction in this field, without any rational justification or scientific,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u93	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u94	... and put the population directly at risk, not taking into account the already very worrying state of our plants, which will on average be 49 years old in 2035. The Greenpeace association summed it up in a few words: the bill wants to save nuclear power,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u95	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u96	...not the climate. Mr. Sermier, in Fukushima, nuclear energy was clean... until the power plant exploded!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u97	It's not the same in France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u98	Unfortunately, this is not the only source of disappointment and of the hustle and bustle that the text conceals, ranging from the reduction of the announced greenhouse gas emission targets to the absence of a total ban on coal-fired power plants, contrary to the presidential promise, to the lack of a comprehensive policy to develop and systematize renewable energies. Finally, the central issue of housing, which is described as energy coffers, is an excellent example of the close interaction between ecological and social emergencies. As you know, the poorest people are the first victims of the poor isolation of housing, unable to afford the luxury of choosing their housing according to this criterion, assuming that its energy performance is indicated. Nevertheless, you choose to set an energy performance ceiling almost twice as high as 330 kilowatt hours per square metre per year, that is to say, at the threshold above which a dwelling is considered to be an energy passory. Worse: no real sanction is yet foreseen for owners who do not carry out the necessary work in already rented dwellings. This bill, an additional illustration of the cynicism of government policy, will remain in history as an additional stone to the building of the climate catastrophe. We no longer have time for the "at the same time" or for the in-between. However, this is what characterizes this piece of legislation, such as the mobility policy bill: they do not transform our energy model or our transport model into anything, simply adapting them to openness to competition and privatization. But the climate emergency is not waiting, it needs such a transformation. By doing as much as possible immobilism or even aggravate the situation, you are doing a bad thing with regard to the French and our future. For these reasons, the group of La France insoumée will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u99	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u100	As revealed in the first report of the High Council for Climate, published in June, and despite media chatter, France is not at the meeting of the ecological transition. The gap with the targets that our country has set itself comes in particular from transport-related emissions, which have not decreased in the last 10 years, and from those from buildings, which have fallen three times less rapidly than anticipated. The current pace of implementation of the commitments made under the Energy Transition for Green Growth Act in 2015 is not the right one. We could have hoped that the draft law on energy and climate would learn from that failure and speed up the movement; instead of which you offer us, once again, a display text and trompe-l'oeil lenses. Here are three examples. While imported greenhouse gas emissions account for 40% of our carbon footprint, the carbon neutrality target by 2050 does not account for them. The High Climate Council, however, had stressed the need to take into account emissions from international transport and to ensure that emissions from our imports were controlled. Therefore, the presentation of the conditions for achieving carbon neutrality remains totally biased, insinuating and, perhaps, isolationist. On the other hand, if the text does not lose sight, as we called for, of the target of reducing final energy consumption by 50% by 2050 compared to 2012, we still need to give ourselves the means to achieve this. However, the High Council reports a lack of public and private climate investment of more than €40 billion in 2018 in key sectors of transport, buildings and energy production. By comparison, investments that sustain the use of fossil fuels in France reached €75 billion in 2017. The shortcomings of the state and of the banking system, whose interests your government protects, are therefore glaring. The group of the Democratic and Republican Left points, in the second place, to the lack of strategic vision. Indeed, a rational view of the evolution of the energy mix should combine balanced development of renewable sectors, renovation of historical nuclear capacities, maintenance of thermal capacity sufficiently renovated to manage system tensions and investment in research. The energy mix is not, for us, at this secure stage, while the country's security of supply leaves something to be desired. For your part, you prefer to continue the disintegration of public operators: this is the subject of the open negotiation with Brussels on the separation of EDF's activities between production – the famous blue package – and distribution – the green package –, which puts the risk of an explosion in electricity prices. I am short of time to mention all the provisions of this text, but the icing on the cake is, of course, in line with the choices I have just mentioned, the measures that put an end to the regulated tariffs on gas and electricity, measures that lead to the emergence of a tariff jungle that is all the more dangerous as energy insecurity increases. We ask you, Madam Minister: stop arguing about lower rates, when all the editors of the morning newspapers show the opposite and we issued the alert on this issue several months ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u101	Lower gas prices on August 1st!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u102	For all these reasons, minister, our group will vote against this bill and will continue to defend the proposals we made to you, particularly in the context of the conclusion of the Great Debate, to help ensure that strong climate and energy measures are taken for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u103	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u104	This weekend, Secretary of State Brune Poirson, who is in charge of the ecological and solidarity transition with you, declared to the executives and activists of her political party, "Don't be shy of ecology. Don't have complex ecology. However, it seems that this so-called "smileing" ecology, which the Government now claims to be, is not yet fully reflected in the legislation we are debating. This text is a sad confirmation of this. I would like to point out that the original text did not even mention the energy performance of buildings, a sector which still weighs 43% of final energy consumption and almost 20% of greenhouse gas emissions, knowing, moreover, that the social and environmental impact of energy insecurity affects 5 million households. The text of the Joint Joint Committee does not take into account the centrality of this issue: the energy performance criterion for the definition of decent housing has been reduced and sanctions for non-compliance with the energy performance obligation are still not defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u105	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u106	In this regard, the examination in the Senate and the agreement reached in the CMP have further eroded an already modest ambition. We have read about the Government's recent announcements on the creation of a EUR 200 million support service for energy renewal. This is a good thing, because the support of individuals in this area is essential. However, I can only note that the financial burden of energy renovation will be borne for half by the communities, which are already in great difficulty and, for the other, by energy saving certificates. It is therefore to be feared that this new scheme will be largely insufficient to achieve the objective of renovation of 500,000 dwellings per year or of the abolition of energy coffers by 2050. We will have the opportunity to discuss these issues in greater detail, particularly in the context of the next budget review. I mentioned the shortcomings in the construction sector, but the text is also illustrated by the absence or weakness of certain key themes, such as heat or cold networks, local renewable energy carriers, offshore wind, hydropower or all of the fatal energy, which were introduced during the discussions in the Senate. For nuclear power, once again, takes the place in France, which does not allow us to have a calm and intelligent debate on energy issues. I come to the main objectives of our country's energy policy, the heart of this text. First of all, two satisfecits: the next PPE will be the subject of a law, and no longer a decree as today; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u107	It's a shame it's not being applied!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u108	...as well, I welcome the stated goal of dividing greenhouse gas emissions by six and achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 – but we still need to agree on what carbon neutrality is. On the other hand, I am at least cautious – the word is weak given my real thinking on our approach to the subject – with regard to the postponement to 2035 of the 50% reduction in the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix: our country does not have the ambition to live up to the energy stakes, which it still has in nuclear energy. In the Libertés et Territoires Group, we particularly regret that this text does not propose to define a detailed trajectory of this reduction, as we proposed. The sustainability of the nuclear power plant is a financial abyss to the detriment of investment in renewable energy, which matures. The text also helps to remove some obstacles to the transformation of our energy policy and to facilitate the emergence of virtuous projects, which I welcome. A word also about the closure of coal-fired power stations: you know that I am primarily concerned because, in my constituency, Group 5, which is the coal group, of the thermal power plant of Provence, will have to be closed on the communes of Meyreuil and Gardanne. A meeting is planned on this subject at the prefecture of Marseilles tomorrow. Although we have understood that the chosen wording will make it possible to operate coal-fired power stations on an ad hoc basis, we want the accompanying measures of the companies concerned to be as protective as possible, so that this environmental progress does not lead to a social tragedy. In this regard, I believe that our country is not up to the challenges: we are extremely far from what must be done to achieve the successful transition in the territories concerned. A few days ago, the High Council for Climate, a body created by this piece of legislation – although working in reality for several months – published a simplified version of its annual report, in order to make its expertise more accessible. It remains clear that our efforts are not sufficient to meet the greenhouse gas reduction targets and thus limit global warming. [["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz and Mr Ian Boucard also applaud]] Therefore, the majority of the Libertés et Territoires Group will abstain from this text, which remains, as I have said, and I will repeat again, a small law, far from the imperatives which the ecological and climate emergency requires. Allow me, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to have a thought for Michel Petit, the first president of the scientific council of the Savons le climat association, who died just a few days ago. Let us live up to his commitment. I'm afraid we're not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u109	The general discussion is closed. Before I give the floor to the minister, I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that, on the whole of the bill, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u110	First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that each of you shares the conviction that there is a need to respond to the environmental and climate emergency. We can all also share the conviction that responding to this urgency requires, inter alia, carbon neutrality on the horizon of 2050, which this text will now include in our law. We also recognize the need to accelerate the reduction of our dependence on fossil fuels, by raising our ambition to 40% by 2030 or by closing coal-fired power plants before the end of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u111	Do you believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u112	Already respect the Paris agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u113	I think we all share the objective of giving us all the tools to develop renewable energies, be it photovoltaics, methanisation and wind energy, even though I fully agree, Mr Les Républicains, that this also requires working in practice on the acceptability of projects in these two areas. We can all also rejoice – even if we may find them insufficient – at progress in governance. The same applies to Parliament's best association in the future with the definition of our country's energy policy. This policy deserves it. We can also welcome the introduction of new forms of governance, including the High Climate Council and green budgeting, which will enable us to ensure that our financial laws are in line with our country's commitments in this area, particularly with regard to the Paris Agreement. I therefore regret, honourable Member, that the Republicans are having a much more pointless controversy because this bill does not propose to leave nuclear power but to reduce its share to 50% of electricity production in 2035.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u114	It weakens our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u115	This is important for the development of renewable energy chains. None of us can be satisfied that we do not have a French champion in the field of photovoltaics or batteries. You know that the Government has taken this subject in arms-to-body, with a European battery industry as its ambition. I hope that the objectives set will also create a sector in wind energy, where there is no longer a French champion. This balanced mix will therefore also provide an opportunity for the emergence of renewable energy chains in our country. In this regard, Bruno Le Maire and I want to focus on hydrogen, a source of energy for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u116	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u117	I also share the conviction of the importance of the fight against thermal colanders. If there is any progress on this in the text, we also need to simplify the aid arrangements: this is what the Government, ladies and gentlemen, will propose to you in the context of the finance bill. It will be a matter of moving from a tax credit, which requires making advances, to a unified premium; It will also be a matter of better support for the French, it is the meaning of the whole process that led the Government to announce €200 million to support the public service of energy renewal. Of course, not everything is in this text and mobilising the territories is a major lever to speed up the thermal renovation of housing. Emmanuelle Wargon and Julien Denormandie will work on this in the coming weeks so that, in each region, a mobilization at all levels is defined, in order to better accompany the French in the thermal renovation of housing, an essential issue. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] I now turn to some of the benches on the left of the Chamber, to regret the caricatural presentations of our policies, which pretend to ignore all the concrete measures and legislative provisions proposed by the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium. It would be better to find ourselves on the goal of meeting the challenge of the ecological and climate emergency. I am thinking of the climate plan, which set the goal of carbon neutrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u118	But you don't put it in place!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u119	The Government is not content to include it in the law: it defends it at the European level, and twenty-four countries have already joined the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u120	Put it in place, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u121	I would point out that it was defended by the President of the Republic in the last G7, which has led other states, including India and Chile, to join. And then, you seem to forget, we acted from the beginning of the quinquennium through the law on hydrocarbons. I would add that in a few minutes you are going to postpone your work by continuing the review of the mobility orientation bill, which also provides for accompanying our fellow citizens towards easier and cleaner mobility, which is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u122	Do you believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u123	And you'll have to debate a waste bill this fall. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Olivier Becht also applauds]] It is true that we do not agree with the vision you are proposing: for you, the state and the law should do everything. I respect your position, but I am convinced that the state or the law must not do everything alone. On the contrary, the mobilization of citizens, social partners and communities must be seen as a force, in order to succeed together this ecological and solidarity transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u124	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendments before me. Amendments Nos 2, 1, 4, 6, 5 corrected and 3 may be presented in a consolidated format. The minister has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u125	The six amendments proposed by the Government deal only with consistency and drafting clarifications. They were the subject of joint work with the two rapporteurs, the National Assembly and the Senate, and they obtained their agreement. Amendment No. 2, in particular, is intended to replace the words "industrial and commercial secrecy" with the words "business secrecy". The other amendments are also drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u126	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendments adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u127	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 128 Number of votes cast 111 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 95 Against 16
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u128	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u129	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u130	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on a new reading of the mobility policy bill (No. 2135, 2206).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u131	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with Amendment No. 521 to Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u132	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 521.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u133	It aims to ensure that regional planning, sustainable development and territorial equality – SRADDET – beyond the intermodality and transport development objectives, as well as the logistics objectives introduced by Article 5, also set modal rebalancing targets for less greenhouse gas-emitting modes of transport – be it rail, river, low-emission public transport or active modes such as cycling or walking. These guidelines would be fully consistent with the financial and operational programming of the State's investment in transport as defined in the draft law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u134	Mr Bruno Millienne, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u135	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u136	The Secretary of State for Transport has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u137	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u138	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u139	These answers seem a little short. Can you tell us more about these negative opinions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u140	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u141	As we already mentioned yesterday, as well as at first reading, we are not in favour of increasing the number of SRADDETs. For this reason, we are giving an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u142	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 409 and 685. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 409.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u143	The aim of this amendment is to take logistical issues into account in urban planning. To this end, he mentions them in the local planning plans – PLU – and in the spatial coherence schemes – SCOT – as well as in the plans and documents drawn up by the Greater Paris metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u144	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 685.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u145	Logistical activities need to be truly taken into account in planning tools. The platforms are developing everywhere in France, and particularly in Île-de-France, it seems to me important to integrate them into the planning tools, in the interest of spatial planning, in order to fluidise traffic and to respond to the environmental issues related to the development of logistics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u147	We have already discussed this issue. You are aware that the Senate has adopted several provisions that, as part of section 5, give a logistical dimension to the main urban planning documents. This concern therefore seems to me to be sufficiently present in the text. In addition, what you are advocating is already possible under the law in force. These amendments are therefore satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u149	Indeed, this provision already exists in the general code of local authorities, whose article L. 5219-1 provides in particular that the metropolis of Greater Paris is competent to create tertiary zones, which may include logistics. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u150	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 458 and 687. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 458.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u151	Also in the field of logistics, we propose to include in the urban planning code an article L. 111-19-1 as follows: "Despite any provision contrary to the local urban planning plan, for any operation exceeding 5000 square meters, the spaces of deliveries and shipments, whose dimensioning takes account of the logistical needs of the building, are integrated into the land right-of-way subject to the application for permission to build". The aim of this amendment is, of course, to encourage real estate project promoters to plan, during the development of operations exceeding 5000 square meters, the setting up of logistics spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u152	Amendment No 687 by Mrs Valérie Lacroute is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u153	These identical amendments are intended to introduce a new obligation. However, it is already possible to apply the proposed provisions. To impose them uniformly throughout the territory is not justified. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u154	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u155	I agree with the rapporteur. Paragraph 97 of this Article meets the planning objective set out in the amendments. In addition, the proposed provisions raise several difficulties. Their adoption would introduce in the preparation of local planning plans additional derogations, which could be detrimental to the definition by local elected officials of a relevant land project. Furthermore, it could affect the control of impermeabilised surfaces, in view of possible difficulties in the reception of delivery vehicles inside the buildings concerned. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u156	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 505 and 688. I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 505.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u157	It aims to systematically integrate the mention of logistics equipment in the drafting of local planning plans, in order to ensure the automatic consideration of logistical issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u158	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 688.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u159	I will complement what our colleague has said by insisting on the systematic nature of such an approach. The rapporteur argued that it was already possible to apply the proposed provisions. Making them systematic will encourage and engage – the word "mandatory" bothers you, rapporteur – the local and regional authorities to take into account the logistical challenges, which I believe are essential in terms of spatial planning, particularly in local and regional authorities and communities of municipalities, as well as in the regions. Making them systematic will require local and regional authorities to address this issue and to open dialogue on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u160	Mr Bruno Millienne's amendment No 416 is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u161	I call Mr Demilly to support Amendment No. 578.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u162	In the absence of a mobility plan, this article provides that "the diagnosis integrated into the report of the presentation of the local planning plan analyses the foreseeable traffic flows required to cross level crossings". The purpose of this amendment is to clarify this diagnosis by providing that it details the safety conditions of crossing level crossings. It seems to me very important to make such an addition. There are still too many accidents at level crossings. Without wanting to be morbid, I recall that sixteen deaths are to be deplored in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u164	Mr. Demilly, it seems to me that your concern with this amendment is already satisfied with the wording of paragraph 110, on the one hand, and section 33 quater of this bill, on the other. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u166	Following the presentation of Ms. Laurence Gayte's report, on May 3, Ms. Élisabeth Borne presented an action plan to improve the security of level crossings, including making a diagnosis of the situation mandatory. This is the subject of Article 33c of this text. Your amendment therefore risks duplicating, Mr Demilly. Of course, we fully agree with the political diagnosis you are making. I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u167	Do you maintain the amendment, Mr. Demilly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u168	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u169	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 442.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u170	Through this amendment, we are trying to get young citizens to get involved in the area of solidarity mobility. We seek to encourage student and parent initiatives to establish a community social bond. Thus, they will be encouraged to accompany people in situations of economic or social vulnerability on an ad hoc basis. We are trying to strengthen the construction of the civic sense of the students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u172	Mr Castellani, I fully agree with your concern. However, the provisions you are proposing seem to me to be in the area of regulation and not in the area of law. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u174	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u175	Do you maintain the amendment, Mr Castellani?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u176	I turn to the rapporteur's argument and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u177	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 77, 203 and 689. Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u178	The purpose of this amendment is to promote social or solidarity-based tariffs rather than general free-of-charge measures, which, in the field of transport, is a good misconception. Indeed, given the real cost of transport, the price of the transport ticket is not sufficient to cover the entire service rendered, of which a significant proportion – between 40% and 60% depending on the modes of transport – remains at the expense of the transport organiser authority. There is no free money, as we all know: it is the taxpayers who participate in the funding. In the territory where I am elected, the financing of public transport is broken down as follows: €40 million comes from the employer's transport payment, €15 million comes from the transport tickets paid by the users and €20 million remains the responsibility of the community. With free of charge, 15 million euros would be needed to finance public transport in the urban community of the Grand Reims. At the time of the reduction of State allocations and the abolition of the housing tax, local authorities will have to make choices. In other words, making public transport free of charge places an additional financial burden on the mobility organising authorities – AOM – which reduces their financial autonomy, for an uncertain result. Their investments will suffer. Moreover, on some lines, how can passenger flows be managed, even though traffic is already saturated? Free public transport is therefore a wrong route for users and a financial stalemate for local and regional authorities. That is why it is preferable to provide in the text that the mobility organising authorities favour social or solidarity charges, as I have suggested on several occasions in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u179	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 203.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u180	Similar to the previous one, it tends to favour social or solidarity rates rather than general free-of-charge measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u182	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 689.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u183	We have this debate regularly. We are all aware that transport is not free. It seems to me important to send a signal to the local authorities, indicating that the introduction of social tariffs is preferable – the example of Ile-de-France demonstrates this – to the total free of charge of the transport networks. Often this is achieved at the expense of additional transport and investment. Local and regional authorities should therefore be encouraged to increase the supply of transport and investment rather than opting for total free transport, which is unthinkable in Île-de-France, where several transport networks are already saturated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u184	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u186	We had this debate at length, in the Chamber during the first reading of the text, in committee and again last night. Colleagues, you know my position on this: while I am against free in absolute terms, I am also against any measure that prevents local and regional authorities themselves from managing their own tariff schedules. Some local and regional authorities considered that they could do so. This is the case with the city of Dunkirk, cited yesterday as an example. I do not see in the name of what the Jacobin state would prohibit local and regional authorities from applying the tariffs they consider to be in a position to ensure! Let us leave them responsible for their tariff schedules and let us not intervene on this point! For once, we will show a girdin' mind, which would not be so bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u188	We started this debate last night. Mrs Lacroute, you are right to point out that transport systems have a cost, which is borne either by the user or by the taxpayer – businesses and households. In any event, we want the mobility authority to be able to make the free choice of its tariff policy, whether or not to include social tariffs. The constitutional principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities must be respected. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u189	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u190	Mr rapporteur, Mr Minister, the amendments, as drafted, do not intend to deprive local and regional authorities of the mobility of their ability to decide their tariffs freely. They simply plan to encourage them to promote adaptive rates rather than free. Let us not turn these amendments away from their point of view! In addition, I am elected to a department where we once experienced free public transport. It has had very perverse effects, such as the surge in school transport enrolment, followed by a reduction or stagnation in the number of users. As a result, the vehicles were no longer adapted to the number of passengers and the costs flew away. A few years later, the transport organizing authority – the General Council, in this case – turned back and put in place a family-paid user ticket system. The amendments we are proposing are simply designed to encourage the competent authorities by law not to make the mistake of free transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u191	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u192	Mr Viala, you say that these identical amendments are only incentive. Here is the exact sentence that they aim to introduce into the transport code: "The transport organizing authority favours the setting of solidarity tariffs instead of general free measures".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u193	"Privilegier" is an incentive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u194	[["No! » on several benches of the LR group]] In legal terms, "preference" means "must give priority"
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u195	You should have written "can favor"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u196	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u197	I was about to read out the text of the identical amendments, which we do not have the same interpretation, rapporteur! You pointed out earlier that the free administration of local and regional authorities must be respected. Let me point out to you that this text contains several provisions to impose certain measures on them. I will mention only one: we require the municipalities to remove parking places located upstream and downstream of pedestrian crossings. It is a matter of imposing on the mayor the ban on the creation of parking spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u198	It's not exactly the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u199	I could cite dozens of other provisions in the mobility policy bill to impose the legislator's decision on local and regional authorities, contrary to the principle of the free administration of communities. Therefore, this argument is not on the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u200	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u201	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u202	I will begin by welcoming your appointment, Secretary of State. I had, at first reading, tabled an amendment to this article in order to encourage better accessibility of the Parisian metro. It was rejected, and I did not resubmit it. However, following the debate we had with Mrs Élisabeth Borne, then minister responsible for transport, a mission was entrusted to Mr Michel Cadot, prefect of the region, on the best ways to improve the accessibility of Parisian and Franciscan public transport. On behalf of all the members of Parliament who have signed this amendment, I would like to thank the Government for having taken our request into consideration, and for taking action to improve the accessibility of the metro and of all the transports in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u203	We come to the amendments. Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 690.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u204	The aim of this amendment is to remove any ambiguity on the target audiences of the tariff measures, i.e. persons with disabilities or reduced mobility and their attendants. Without these editorial clarifications, the organising authorities and transport operators would find themselves unable to put in place specific measures because they could not clearly identify the eligible audiences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u205	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u206	Lacroute, we do not read paragraph 7 of this article the same way. Your amendment deletes some of the advances that we have made at first reading in this article, for the benefit of people with reduced mobility and their attendants; In particular, paragraph 7 is a strong demand of the persons concerned. I am therefore very opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u207	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u208	Same opinion. Accessibility is based on three pillars: accommodation, training and information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u209	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 691.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u210	The draft law provides for the obligation for mobility organizing authorities to offer reduced rates to disabled persons and their attendants. The aim of this amendment is to clarify that tariff measures can go as far as full free of charge, but that they can only apply to accompanying persons who absolutely need to be accompanied in order to travel, in order to limit abuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u212	Again, Mrs Lacroute, you are in step with the text we voted for. Article 7 makes it compulsory to apply reduced rates to all accompanying persons of all disabled persons carrying a disability card or an inclusion mobility card. Limiting this obligation to the attendants of the most severely disabled is not justified: many people with disabilities who are not so burdensome still have considerable difficulties in accessing and using transport networks, and are in dire need of an attendant. This amendment was rejected at first reading, and I am again against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u214	Article 7 was the subject of a good political consensus at first reading. However, your amendment, Mrs Lacroute, would exclude people with CMI cards – inclusion mobility card – for whom walking is difficult – mention "parking" – or the painful standing station – mention "priority for people with disabilities": the Government wants these people to benefit from the appropriate rates. It is therefore against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u215	Amendment No 583 by Mrs Béatrice Descamps is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u216	I call Mr Demilly to support Amendment No. 581.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u217	This amendment is important. French longevity is increasing; As a result, older people are more likely, and even those who do not have a disability may find it difficult to move due to one-off or chronic pain, or may tend to get tired more quickly. To the extent that the purpose of the transport service provided for in this Article is to enable persons with difficulty in travelling to benefit from a suitable transport service, it would be fair to include also elderly persons from the age of 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u219	I understand your intention, and I agree with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u220	Wonderful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u221	But the threshold you set is a problem for me: why choose 80 years? Age, in itself, is not a sign of disability, and 70-year-olds may need appropriate services that others under the age of 90 would not use. Request for withdrawal, or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u223	Same opinion. In substance, the AOMs should be allowed to define the eligible public. In addition, persons over the age of 80 are generally included; Your amendment is thus, in practice, satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u224	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 522.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u225	Article 7 provides that part of the seats intended for charging electric vehicles are accessible to persons with reduced mobility; this clause "applies to pre-equipped spaces or equipped with electric charging terminals created from the date of publication of this Act". However, the concept of pre-equipment of seats is imprecise. We therefore propose to provide for an application to stations created from the date of publication of this Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u227	As we said at first reading, the concept of pre-equipment of parking spaces is precisely defined by the code of construction and housing. This is the installation of the technical sheaths, wiring and safety devices necessary to supply a charging outlet. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. I suggest you remove it; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u229	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u230	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u231	We are dealing with Chapter IV of the Overseas Bill. First of all, I would like to remind you that we had successfully tabled amendments to improve the system of territorial continuity, which I will describe as anything relative. These articles contain first steps in the right direction; But they remain very insufficient, especially if one thinks of the famous "overseas reflex", to which the Prime Minister invited us again in his recent policy statement. The margins of progress are important, as the overseas mobility situation is very heterogeneous and far from satisfactory. With regard to territorial continuity, it is true that the Transport Code makes extensive reference to decrees to amend the eligibility criteria for aid or the operating procedures of the Territorial Continuity Fund. However, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the three changes in these arrangements which I believe are desirable. First of all, we need to change the way in which financial aid is allocated, and in particular the income ceilings. These are absolutely not adapted to the cost of living, especially in the most remote territories, New Caledonia and French Polynesia, which are among the most expensive in the Republic. The current conditions are so restrictive that eligible persons do not have enough money to pay the portion of the ticket that remains at their expense! I would add that in New Caledonia, the number of beneficiaries of territorial continuity has been divided by eight since the introduction of the new income criteria. It then seems to me that the criteria for the eligibility of internal links to aid for territorial continuity need to be changed. Such a system exists in Guyana for connections between Cayenne and certain other cities in Guyana. It would seem fair to New Caledonians, Polynesians, Wallisians and Futunians that the same mechanism is adapted to their territories. In a very large archipelago, it can be difficult to get from one point to another, for simple economic reasons. Communities have already made efforts in this area; the State could all the more easily supplement the already existing aid as the money already exists: we were reminded that the appropriations provided for by the Overseas Mission were under-utilised. The only thing missing, Mr Secretary of State, is the willingness of the ministries of transport and the overseas countries and territories to extend aid for territorial continuity to inter-island routes. Finally, it would be wise for aid for territorial continuity to improve links between ultra-marine territories and abroad. Here too, an example already exists, with the link between Halifax, Canada, and Saint-Pierre and Miquelon: in 2018, this community received a grant of €7.6 million. It would be desirable for other ultramarine communities to receive similar aid; I am thinking in particular of the remotest ultramarine communities, and of the connections to Australia or Japan, which for them are necessary relay points to reach the metropolis. I do not question these articles on overseas, nor do I deny the good will of the Government; the IDU and independent group will vote on this bill. But I would like to draw your attention to these few points, Mr. Secretary of State, so that we can start together a reflection aimed at showing that the Government and national representation support those French people who still consider themselves a little far from everything. Unlocking these territories must become a priority of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u232	Mr Bruno Millienne's Amendment No 417 seeks to correct an incomplete reference.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u233	The committee having tabled an amendment to Rule 9 after the expiry of the deadline, an additional ten minutes for each group and five minutes for non-attached Members shall be allocated for the discussion of the Rule, pursuant to Rule 55(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u234	I would like to return to the issue of the transmission of data by taxi craftsmen. At first reading, we asked ourselves about the relevance of these provisions in very dense areas, where part of the activity is carried out on a station or on the fly. While we can hear the argument that digital development in this area should be encouraged, we must also bear in mind that not everyone has the same ability to access digital technology; Customers, of course, but also artisan taxis themselves, need to have other support channels. Mrs Bérangère Couillard, rapporteur for this part of the text, had adopted an amendment which provides in a relevant way for the setting by a decree in the Council of State of the conditions under which a taxi may refuse a race, in order to ensure fairness with what is provided for for the VTC – transport cars with driver – in Article 20. This decree will have to provide all the necessary details; it is a counterpart to the opening of the data. Mr Secretary of State, taxis are in favour of the generalization of the.Taxi state platform: can you respond to the fears that are expressed about the conditions of refusal to race on this platform? Of course, the risk of loss of income will have to be taken into account in the case, for example, where the driver should pick up a customer free of charge, without the State being able to guarantee that he will be present at the arrival. The risk of non-loading is therefore indeed significant, in the absence of financial penalties that would penalize a client absent from the appointment. This is not the case for VTCs. On the other hand, this generalisation of races via.Taxi should not exclude customers who are victims of the digital divide. It is therefore obviously necessary to preserve, for example, the activity in the stations. Thank you for the clarifications you can give us on this implementing decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u235	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u236	For cases of abnormal re-use of data, a monitoring mission is, as you know, entrusted to the ARAFER – Authority for the regulation of railway and road activities. For taxis, you know that the text provides that they will be able to continue shopping on the fly; He even organizes the electronic maraude. The conditions for refusal of race will be defined by decree. I believe that these measures will satisfy your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u237	We come to the amendments. I have before me two amendments, Nos 692 and 693, which can be presented together. Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u238	These amendments concern the opening of data. In particular, Amendment No 692 seeks to establish reciprocity, particularly in Île-de-France. As we point out, Île-de-France Mobilitys has opened its data since 2015 to a wide range of important players, such as Google, Apple and Citymapper, to name but a few. The introduction of reciprocity would achieve a twofold objective: a better knowledge of mobility for the provision of a full multimodal service to travellers, and access to the data of all users. The aim of Amendment No 693 is for VTC and carpool operators to also open up their data, so that the mobility organising authorities, which invest significant resources in passenger information, have a better knowledge of travel and the same level of information as the major players. They should not be the only ones on the market to be able to offer applications giving information on travel to all users: the mobility organising authorities should not be in step with these major players. This reciprocity therefore seems important to me in the interests of the users.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u239	Mrs Bérangère Couillard, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u240	These two amendments do not really call for the same answer. With regard to Amendment No 692, it is not necessary, for reasons which have been mentioned in committee, to open the data of the VTCs, which differ by nature from the data opened by the European regulation: these are not data of availability, but reservations. In addition, the opening of the reservation station ticketing system is already authorized and regulated by section 11 of the bill, which meets the objective you are aiming for. With regard to Amendment No. 693, the opening of data on mobile devices is already provided for in Article 13 of the draft law, in order to bring back to the organising authorities data on road traffic produced by digital travel assistance services. However, this data will have to be aggregated, as it is personal data. This is precisely what Article 13 provides for, but not the procedure for opening up the data in Article 9. Mr Sermier tabled the same amendment in committee and then withdrew it. I therefore ask you to withdraw these as well, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u242	Same opinion. On Amendment No 693, the rapporteur rightly pointed out that your concern is satisfied by Article 13. As for Amendment No 692, we are faced with two different legal regimes. We recalled, together with Mr Rupin, the legal regime applicable to taxis; In the case of VTCs, the concept of availability is not relevant since VTCs are not taken on the fly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u243	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u244	I can hear your arguments, which are relatively technical. But it is still Île-de-France Mobilitys – an organizing authority that can be described as public – that demands this openness and easier access to data from private operators. I am therefore a little surprised that we are not more attentive to the demand of Île-de-France Mobilitys, which insists on these various points, and that your arguments tend instead to protect private operators at the expense of an organizing authority for mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u245	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 217 and 524. Mr Martial Saddier has the floor to support Amendment No. 217.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u246	He proposed that the last two sentences of paragraph 16 should be deleted. It would seem – I am speaking on the conditional – that the provisions contained in these two sentences are redundant with those already defined in clause 4 of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u247	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 524.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u248	He expressed the concern of the leader of our group to move towards simplification: in order to make the law less chatty and more readable, this amendment tended to delete the last two redundant sentences from paragraph 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u249	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u250	It is really important to point out that the region, in fact, does not have an animation role: when it comes to the territory of the metropolis, it is to it that this mission falls. In addition, I believe it is important to retain the provisions to extend the city's mission to the scale of its mobility pool, which your amendment leads to the deletion of. On the ground, I can't imagine the New Aquitaine region being in charge of transport for the Bordeaux metropolis. So, logically, my opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u252	Same opinion. In particular, the provisions of Article 4 do not deal with the coordination of actors in the provision of data, and we believe it is important to maintain this clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u253	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u254	The question still deserves to be stopped for a minute. I hear the reply of the rapporteur and the Secretary of State – the region must not encroach on the prerogatives of the metropolis: in any case, the powers are clearly defined by law. But the rapporteur's answer seems to mean that the metropolitan area could go beyond its single perimeter, within the meaning of the general code of local and regional authorities. Is that the answer of the rapporteur? If so, it could pose many problems in the regions. I understand that the New Aquitaine region will not take care of the transports of the Bordeaux metropolis; But will the Bordeaux metropolis go beyond its only perimeter to take care of transport in the New Aquitaine region, because it would be its area of influence? That is a real question, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u255	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u256	In fact, the regions agreed that metropolitan areas should extend their management to their mobility pool. This subject was therefore dealt with in consultation with the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u257	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u258	I would point out that the cities can indeed extend their action to their mobility basin, but only after agreement from the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u259	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u260	Thank you, Secretary of State. As a regional adviser to Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, I believe that precision was important for the debate. Discussions have certainly taken place with regional associations, notably the Association des régions de France, whose act. But I don't think an agreement has been reached in every region. The clarification of the Secretary of State, which will appear in the Official Journal, is important. The agreement of the region will have to be obtained in advance, otherwise the rest of the mandate will be spent on determining the perimeters of each other, and the loser, in that case, will be the user. However, I do not think that parliamentarians, the Government, the regions and the cities have an interest in penalizing the user. The precision was therefore very important, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u261	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u262	I simply point out that in paragraph 16, it is clearly stated: "With the agreement of the region, a metropolis can exercise this competence at the level of the mobility pool".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u263	Amendment No 771 of the Committee on Sustainable Development is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u264	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 694.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u265	This is again the opening of data and a request from Île-de-France Mobilitys. Clearly, the mobility organizing authority that opens its data must be kept informed of its use. It seems to me quite legitimate that it is: we know that the mobility organising authorities, as I said earlier, are financing projects that go far beyond the service created, and the digital data which is the extension of it must also be taken into account. Île-de-France Mobilitys has invested a great deal in transport, not only in the transport offer, but also in all information tools, such as applications, and in all matters relating to pricing, particularly with regard to the new Navigo pass. It therefore seems important to me that, when it makes this data available, it should be informed of what will be done about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u267	It is not necessary to specify that the national data access point provides information to data users. This systematic provision could run counter to the rules laid down in the delegated European Regulation. Where appropriate, this may be included in the licensing agreements provided for in the regulations, as well as in section 9. Request for withdrawal, therefore, or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u269	Asking reusers to report on their use of the data does not appear to be necessary for AOM's organizational missions. It is a little complicated, but for this reason I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u270	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 725.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u271	It concerns the subject of Chapter I, which is extremely important, since it concerns the opening of data. This theme is technical, it is arduous, especially since not everyone is a technician. So we plunged into it. It is true that today, in order to succeed in the new mobilitys, the opening of data is necessary, in order to be able to aggregate the maximum amount of knowledge, which will enable the competences of the organising authorities to exercise themselves effectively. There are subjects on which we have opposed, but this is a technical subject, on which it is obviously possible to reach an agreement: it is not political, it is technical. Care must be taken to find a balance. If the maximum amount of data is to be transmitted to the authorities, the authorities must be extremely attentive to their confidentiality, otherwise the building will collapse. For example, operators with access to such data could use them to adapt their advertising offers. I think we need to be very careful. This is the aim of this amendment: to oblige mobility operators to ensure the confidentiality of data.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u272	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u273	Your amendment, Mr Sermier, introduces the principle of confidentiality of the data provided, which is contrary to the delegated European regulation providing for the opening of such data through the national access point. Article 9 of the bill does not concern the opening of confidential data, but only information for travellers. However, this data will not be open without conditions, since licensing agreements will be able to regulate their re-use. I therefore believe that Article 9 responds to your concern. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u275	I will only clarify the scope of Article 9. It concerns data necessary for informing passengers – timetables or location of bus stops – in no case, for example, the number of passengers. These are basic data that are not confidential and therefore do not require special protection. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u276	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u277	Since you confirm that this is not personal data – I wanted to make it clear to avoid litigation – I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u278	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 726.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u279	It tends to avoid the creation of a monopoly for the benefit of a group that aggregates all the data.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u281	It is unfavorable because regions and cities already have the task of facilitating the opening of quality data, in the formats provided for in the European regulation, in order to encourage their re-use. By your amendment, you replace them with the ARAFER, which will now be called the Transport Regulatory Authority – even though it is not their role. On the other hand, they may refer the matter to the Authority when they find a breach.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u282	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u283	In line with the rapporteur's explanations, I would like to point out that the monitoring mission is the responsibility of the Transport Regulatory Authority, which the local authorities will of course be able to seize. With your amendment, the communities would be both a judge and a party. That's why I'm asking for his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u284	I call Mr Michel Castellani to support Amendment No. 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u285	The aim of Mr Pancher's amendment is to prohibit any transmission of data from a digital mobility service to a foreign State which requests it, in the absence of a final judgment given by a French judge. The coming into force of the Cloud Act now allows U.S. judicial authorities to obtain from digital data storage operators, on the basis of a simple warrant, all data of all persons, regardless of nationality, regardless of where the data is hosted. Such a system provides unlimited access to the data of legal persons, including French companies, which should therefore be protected by restricting as much as possible the scope of the Cloud Act for French data.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u287	The data provided for in Article 9 are not confidential data, but data useful for informing travellers, as the Secretary of State pointed out: timetables, location of stops, accessibility for persons with reduced mobility. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u288	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u289	I fully share your concern for European sovereignty. However, not being confidential, the data cannot be the subject of the action you are recommending. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u290	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u291	I hear what you're telling me, rapporteur, Secretary of State. However, as I am not the author of the amendment, it is difficult for me to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u292	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u293	I would like to return to a point that is a source of concern for some actors. Article 11 requires reservation centres to be referenced on multimodal digital third-party services. The single payment system will have to integrate the constraints of the various actors. It is important that private operators continue to use their own payment systems, for example to keep the rate of fees negotiated with their banks. Furthermore, competition between operators who do not have the same obligations or models, thus not the same levels of pricing and service, may prove unfair. Mr Secretary of State, what guarantees does Article 11 provide to protect certain operators against the risks I have just identified?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u294	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u295	We have already had this debate with Mr Rupin. I would point out that the consultation on Article 11 has been very broad and that we have discussed it with the Mobility Agency in particular. We are fully aware of the specificities of carpooling operators – the customer journey or different billing methods. The text, I believe, contains all the guarantees that will reassure these actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u296	Amendment No 333 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u297	Amendment No 334 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u298	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 727.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u299	It aims to establish a principle of non-discrimination in multimodal digital services. We wish to delete the second sentence of paragraph 17, which would have the effect of limiting the choice of consumers in the basket of mobility solutions presented by the multimodal digital service. This provision seems to me to be contrary to transparency and free access to the market.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u300	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u301	A digital platform that operates all its transport services itself is a simple transport operator that offers on its platform the sale of the services it organises. As long as it does not sell other transport services than those it organises, it has no obligation to sell the transport services of other operators, since it is not a MAAS – Mobility As A Service. It is when it decides to sell other transport services that the platform will have to select the operators in a non-discriminatory manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u302	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u303	It's still a matter of balance. An operator offering rail and self-service bicycles is not subject to the obligation of non-discrimination. On the other hand, if he decides to sell services other than his own, he is obliged to select them without discrimination. On this subject, we have reached the desired balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u304	Amendment No 345 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u305	I have before me two amendments, Nos 519 and 695, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 519.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u306	It provides editorial clarification by mentioning regional rail services, i.e. TER – regional express transport. At a time when the Government is questioning the future of small railway lines and how to promote daily mobility, it is important to ensure that regional rail offers are well included in the provision of multimodal digital services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u307	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 695.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u308	I'll give the same arguments. This amendment aims to provide legal certainty by including regional rail transport services in the multimodal digital service solution basket. Some operators have told us that the wording "regular public transport services" does not include rail services. This is a very technical point, but I hope, Mr Secretary of State, the rapporteur, that you have been able to examine it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u309	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u310	They're already satisfied. TERs are services organized by the region, in its capacity as organizing authority, or AO. The reservation systems of the organizing authorities will be open in accordance with article 11, paragraph 26. TER tickets will therefore be available in multimodal digital services. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u311	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u312	I thank you for having tabled these amendments because they enabled us to verify that the provisions of paragraph 26 are in line with your objective: I confirm that the TERs are covered by paragraph 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u313	Do you maintain your amendment, Mr Pancher?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u314	We have the answer we wanted by tabling this amendment, which was suggested to us by a large transport company. I think our discussions will be such as to reassure her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u315	Yes, we checked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u316	I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u317	Mrs. Lacroute, do you also withdraw yours?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u318	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u319	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 729.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u320	It aims to remove the obligation for freely organised services to open their sales channels to multimodal digital services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u321	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 728.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u322	Its objective is to extend the scope of Article 11 to long-distance transport. Article 11 introduces obligations for the sale of securities for journeys of less than 100 kilometres, but not for journeys of more than 100 kilometres. The aim of this amendment is to increase the attractiveness of our territories: in order to facilitate access to them, it is necessary to simplify the reservation of transport by any means possible. If the contractual arrangements change when a traveller borrows a correspondence, this will affect the consistency of the arrangement. The same marketing logic must apply within and beyond 100 kilometres.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u323	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u324	This amendment tends to make access to the sales system optional, regular public transport services which are not organised by the organising authorities. However, in order for a MAAS system to be effective, all modes of transport existing in the territory covered by the MAAS must be present on this service. As mentioned above, the MAAS will of course have to respect all the guarantees provided for in Article 11, in order not to disintermediate operators. On the other hand, if these guarantees are respected, there is no reason to prevent these operators from accessing sales systems. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u325	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u326	I confirm that we wish to open up such services at the level of mobility basins. A provision to this effect was introduced in Article 11 at first reading here. The maximum number of daily mobility services must be available to users. It seems to us very important to preserve the current balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u327	Amendment No 369 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u328	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 730.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u329	When a platform has sold transport tickets, it is important for it to provide after-sales service to its customers, in particular by indicating the terms and conditions of compensation to travellers who have been delayed. The rate of compensation by the large French railway company is relatively low. Those who use platforms are not always able to get the information as quickly as they wish. The measure we are proposing would be very welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u331	I invite you to withdraw your amendment, Mr Sermier, because it is satisfied with the current wording: Article 11a provides for the publication, by electronic means, of information relating to delay or cancellation, precisely so that travellers can assert their rights. Intermediaries who have sold the transport document will therefore have access to this information. It is also beneficial for the passenger to be directly transmitted to him, when the operator has his contact details. In the absence of a withdrawal, I will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u332	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u333	In addition to what the rapporteur has just said, I have identified a risk: that securities sellers should be in a position to mingle this information, i.e. to intermediate the relationship with the customer. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u334	Ian Boucard, in support of Amendment No. 183, which deletes Rule 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u335	I am actually proposing to delete Article 12. It is sound that there is a proposal to legislate, as part of this mobility guidance bill, on the issue of autonomous vehicles. However, it would be even healthier for the Government to present us with a true text on this subject, and for Parliament and the Government to work together on the law on this issue, which is important today and will be fundamental tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u336	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u337	All actors in the sector are in favour of the authorisation to legislate by order provided for in Article 12. Might as well go in their direction. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u339	Coming from this house, I don't like prescriptions either. However, in this case, this seems relevant to me. First, parliamentarians will be involved in the development of this Order. Secondly, we must be aware that the market for autonomous vehicles is very responsive, with Chinese and Americans in particular moving very quickly in this area; Therefore, we must provide ourselves with the means, by law, to quickly build an appropriate framework. I am therefore against your amendment, Mr Boucard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u340	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u341	Parliament has shown, on several occasions, that it can be reactive when it wants to. There's an emergency, you're right, Secretary of State. In fact, we could have taken up the matter without awaiting consideration of this text, since the legislature began a little more than two years ago. The fact that the players are in a hurry should not prevent Parliament from taking up the matter. I take our answer, but I am not convinced by your last argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u342	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u343	I'm not a believer in prescriptions. However, the matter is very technical, we must act very quickly and I do not see what the added value of Parliament on such an issue would be. I would like to draw your attention, Mr Boucard, to the fact that all the actors involved were brought together at the National Mobility Conference. For steering the workshop on new mobility, I can tell you that there is a consensus among them on the need to act very quickly and that there is no contentious issue in this area. When we see the content of the ordinances, I'm sure no one will have anything to say about them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u344	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 184 and 541, to delete Article 14. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 184.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u345	I have co-signed this amendment, which was authored by Ian Boucard. As before, we would like to take the ordinary legislative route, not through the ordinances, even if you have made it clear that these provisions correspond to the expectations of the professionals expressed at the National Mobility Assemblies. I would like to take the example of what is happening in Paris, where I am elected. New electrical equipment, including scooters, is a major concern for both pedestrians and drivers of cars and motorized two-wheelers, and current legislation cannot be satisfied. There is also a discrepancy on this subject between the Minister of the Interior, Mr Castaner, and the Mayor of Paris, Mrs Hidalgo, even if only about parking – I will come back to that when I examine Article 18. With regard to experiments on new mobility, if you proceed by order without taking into account local specificities, especially those in Paris, expectations will be disappointed, especially those of Parisians, and Parliament will not play its role.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u346	I call Mr Eric Straumann to support Amendment No. 541.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u347	Article 14 seeks to empower the Government to legislate by order. Such a text may, however, provide for derogations or permit experiments. In view of the importance of the subject, it would have been preferable to discuss it in the House. We fear, in particular, the adoption of a derogation which would allow individuals to carry out occasional transport for a fee. What are the Government's intentions in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u348	What is the committee's opinion on these two deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u349	It is unfavorable, for the reasons rightly mentioned by Mr Pancher.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u350	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u351	It is identical to that of the rapporteur. I would point out that Article 14 concerns only sparsely populated territories. The Paris region, which you mentioned, Mrs Kuster, is therefore not in its field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u352	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u353	Article 14 also corresponds to a very strong demand from the actors, particularly those in the territories which do not have all the mobility services. They want to be able to carry out experiments on this subject, within the framework of a budget and means to be defined. Thus my territory, the department of the Meuse, awaits with great interest the vote on this bill, to propose, with its operators, new services, financed by budgets to be identified, and, if necessary, a relaxation of certain regulations. It's very interesting to experiment. I regret that France does not rely more on experiments or always takes stock of them, unlike the large countries around it. I would point out that Germany has a state agency with its own budget to take stock of the experiments and to determine whether they can be generalized or not. I am very much in favour of the development of experiments. We cannot both want experiments and demand details of their content. By its very nature, experiments must enable the territories and their operators to formulate proposals and send them to the public authorities, particularly in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u354	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u355	In line with previous trade, we call for the development of new solutions and new uses, which could be accompanied by financial contributions, to be framed and managed in such a way as to avoid creating unfair competition for regulated transport professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u356	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u357	Article 14a deals with contracts for the delegation of transport services by the organizing authorities. However, these contracts do not concern the specific public transport of persons. Therefore, the amendment you are proposing should not be adopted. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u358	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u359	It's the same. To give a concrete example, experiments could concern rural carpooling. In any event, we are, of course, acting within the framework of the law. To be clear, regulated professions such as taxi drivers will not be affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u360	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 731.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u361	This is an amendment of consistency. A mobility organizing authority is empowered to take certain decisions concerning reserved lanes or reserved parking. However, it is not necessarily the holder of the police power, which belongs to the mayors. We trust the elected representatives, but we propose that the AOM give its opinion in the event of a mayor's decision in this area, in order to ensure the coherence of the organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u363	He's unfavorable. I will give you the same answer as in committee, Mr Sermier: your amendment introduces a procedure for the assent of the mobility organiser prior to the creation of a road reserved for certain vehicles. The possibility of creating lanes reserved for certain vehicles on municipal roads belongs to the mayor or the president of the EPCI – the public institution of intercommunal cooperation – competent, since it is he who has the police powers of traffic and parking. While it is indeed important for the organising authority and the road manager to coordinate, since the police authority is sovereign, it is not desirable to submit the creation of such routes to the agreement of the mobility organising authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u364	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 667.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u365	It aims to allow mayors to reserve permanent or temporary locations on these same routes to allow the deployment of urban logistics spaces or to facilitate the circulation or parking of cycles. It is also intended to regulate the stopping and parking of vehicles used in vehicle and gear sharing services as defined in article L. 1231-17-1 of the Transport Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u366	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u367	The amendment addresses three issues. As far as urban logistics areas are concerned, the mayor can already reserve places on public roads to facilitate the movement and stopping of vehicles carrying out loading or unloading of goods, which partly satisfies your amendment. Transshipment operations, which may create congestion, must not take place on the public road. With regard to the circulation and parking of cycles, the mayor can already create dedicated sites in agglomeration. Finally, the Government will issue a decree on personal travel devices, which will define the rules governing the parking of vehicles and equipment in free-floating; I leave it to the Secretary of State, if necessary, to clarify the intention of the Government. Their regulation is also mentioned in Article 18, which we will discuss together. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment; Failing this, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u368	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u369	The rapporteur responded very well to all three aspects of the amendment. As regards deliveries, it is necessary that transhipments be carried out in suitable places rather than on public roads. On the subject of two-wheelers, your amendment is satisfied with the law in force, as the rapporteur pointed out. Finally, for free-floating equipment, Article 18 proposes a framework which I believe is complete and adapted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u370	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u371	To the extent that the rapporteur and the Secretary of State ensure that the amendment is met in its three objectives, we withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u372	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 732.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u373	It aims to exclude low-emission vehicles from the traffic lanes reserved on the national road network or the departmental road network outside the agglomeration, as well as to take into account the opinion of the mobility organiser authority for the creation of dedicated lanes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u374	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u375	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u376	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u377	We resume this session with the famous Article 15 bis B and the debate on speed limitation at 80 kilometres per hour. Our objective, as you understand it, is to reconcile the protection of motorists and listen to the concerns of the territories. That is why we wanted to give the presidents of the departmental councils and the mayors the opportunity to derogate from the 80 km per hour rule, on the basis of an accident study proposed by the Departmental Road Safety Commission. It is chaired by the Prefect and consists of local elected representatives as well as representatives of user associations. This subject will, I know, generate debate in the next few minutes. However, it seems to me that we have found a balance there that is in line with both the expectations of our fellow citizens and those of the various elected representatives. In addition, the National Road Safety Council has recently made recommendations. Before we get to the debate on these, I would like to point out that his committee of experts – the Secretary of State can confirm this – is independent of the Government. Let us not forget that its positions, if they are to be examined closely, have no coercive value and are merely recommendations. Finally, I would like to remind you, on our initiative, that the mobility guidance bill provides for an assessment of the measure limiting speed to 80 kilometres per hour. We have requested this from the Government and will follow it closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u378	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u379	I would like to return to the possibility for local elected officials to question the speed limits at 80 kilometres per hour or 90 kilometres per hour depending on the road. That is all I want to say, to reassure the elected representatives concerned. My colleague Lacroute, whose constituency, like mine, is located in the Seine-et-Marne, has already said in the general discussion: it is necessary to be clear, to frame the discussion and to reassure the local elected representatives. I had the opportunity to discuss with the chairman of the Seine-et-Marne departmental council, concerned with these and so many other issues. The recommendations made by the Committee of Experts were a source of concern. What is their legal value? What should the chairmen of departmental councils do? The recommendations of this committee of experts are a real problem, since they do not believe that a speed limit of 90 kilometres per hour should be re-established on roads where there are crossings, on roads where there are crossings, on roads which run along a school on roads where agricultural machinery is used. To these questions, it is important to provide clear and reassuring answers for elected officials. Thus, when they take decisions on this matter, they will be able to do so legally, legitimately and safely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u380	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u381	Article 15 bis B, I repeat, gives the possibility for a mayor or a president of a departmental council to increase the maximum speed allowed to 90 kilometres per hour. We can only welcome this, since our group had proposed this provision as early as June, in a bill that was then rejected by the majority. However, the text you are proposing does not contain any provisions on national roads. To exclude national roads without a central separator from this system is, in my opinion, nonsense. This is tantamount to penalising territories that do not have the chance to have modern infrastructure and two-way national roads. I have therefore tabled an amendment, which we will be debating, which aims to enable the prefects to restore the speed allowed at 90 kilometres per hour on national roads, as mayors and departmental presidents can on the roads for which they have responsibility. If the text were to remain as it was, it would only be a trompe l'oeil easing, a half measure. After statements by the President of the Republic and members of the Government, our citizens understood that the speed limitation to 80 kilometres per hour could be adjusted wherever security conditions permitted. The measures you propose will be incomprehensible: by excluding national roads from the scheme, you will create a great deal of confusion. Mr Secretary of State, I have taken advantage of the examination of the text in committee to ask your predecessor, Mrs Borne, about the Government's position on the recommendations of the National Road Safety Council, of which Mr Luquet has just spoken. These recommendations, which have been made public, are such as to render inapplicable on the ground the measure designed to adapt the speed limit to 80 kilometres per hour, adopted at first reading. The CNSR recommends that only those sections of 10 kilometres that are continuously closed to agricultural machinery be affected by this measure, which would be a problematic condition in some departments: on these sections – this is the height – overtakings would be prohibited and this ban would be materialised between the tracks, which, you will agree, does not at all respond to the request we have been making for months: to regain a speed of 90 kilometres per hour in order to exceed the slow vehicles. I heard a first response from the minister in committee. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to reassure national representation by ensuring that these recommendations will be rejected, because their application would remove all scope from the decisions taken by our Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Similarly, while some – I am thinking of certain associations – are trying to point the finger at those elected who are likely to seize the possibility of adjusting the speed limit, I would like to hear you guarantee that both departmental commissions and prefects will not be asked to respond with negative opinions to the proposals of the executive presidents. Our colleague assured us that she would be very vigilant. I'll be, too, like many others. I will use the conditionality: if, on an adventurous basis, a number of provisions were to render impossible any decision of the executive president or to transform it into a course of the combatant, it would be a real abuse of confidence: an abuse of the confidence of parliamentarians, who voted for a relaxation of the speed limit, an abuse of the confidence of the motorists, who understood that tomorrow, this measure will not be applied uniformly in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u382	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u383	Although we have already discussed these issues at length, we really want to go back to them today. Colleagues in the majority have proposed that department presidents and mayors have the opportunity to re-establish a speed limit of 90 kilometres per hour: this is a step forward. However, if this measure will have real effects in the departments, I am not sure that this is the case for the communal networks. You have also chosen not to include national roads. It is a first incoherence: how can we explain to the French that, on the departmental and communal roads, it is possible to drive at 90 kilometers per hour, when it is not necessary to exceed 80 kilometers per hour on the national roads? The French, after the signs of openness given by the Prime Minister, are convinced that the issue is resolved. This is not the case at all. The August figures also show that the number of accidents increased by 17%: contrary to what we had said, the results of the speed limitation to 80 kilometres per hour are therefore inconclusive. There's a second problem. My colleague Aude Luquet and I have already mentioned the case of the Seine-et-Marne department, where the number of kilometres of road is high. A very in-depth study on the possibilities of restoring the limit to 90 kilometres per hour was carried out by the departmental services: on some 4000 kilometres of departmental roads, only 487 kilometres would be likely to be affected by this measure. However, after making this conservative estimate, the departmental departments discovered the recommendations of the CNSR Committee of Experts. In fact, there is a mystery here: the recommendations of the CNSR were made at the end of the meeting, not of the enlarged committee, which includes elected representatives – and of which I normally belong – but simply of the committee of experts. However, it seems that road safety issues have a political dimension that we should have discussed. The CNSR's recommendations, in any event, raise concerns for the president of the departmental council, who had worked with care on the subject, that it would be impossible to restore the speed limit to 90 kilometres per hour out of the 487 kilometres he originally planned to do so. The CNSR's recommendations, in fact, would require considerable, colossal financial resources, so that any accompanying measure would be inapplicable and inoperative. I therefore ask you a concrete question, Mr Secretary of State: what is the legal value of the CNSR recommendations for the presidents of departments, elected officials who have no intention of restoring the limit to 90 kilometres per hour on all departmental roads but who need to be reassured? These recommendations, in fact, fell in early summer like a hair on the soup, I dare say, and cause growing concern among the presidents of the department. It therefore seems important to me to clarify, perhaps in the law, how the CNSR's recommendations should apply and what their role should be when the departmental committees examine cases that fall within their jurisdiction. On these two important issues, Secretary of State, we look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u384	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u385	If so many of us speak on this clause, it is because it is a key part of this bill, you will agree. Let us be clear: we are all in favour of improving road safety. We have both experienced the tragedies of an accident, sometimes unfortunately in our own families, and sometimes as elected officials. We all want to find solutions. However, these solutions should not be trompe l'oeil. Our proposals must be effective, accepted and thus understood and accepted by the French. However, this is not the case with speed limits of 80 kilometres per hour. This absolutely iniquitous measure, taken in one day by the Prime Minister, without consultation, naturally provoked the anger of all the French, especially the rural ones, who, every morning, use their car to go to work, drop their children at school or simply to live. We are told, with the support of studies, that the reduction of the maximum speed of 10 kilometres per hour only increases the time required for a particular journey by less than two minutes and that life is worth it. That's not true, you know that. The limit to 80 kilometres per hour to so stressed certain categories of people that they only drive at 75 kilometres per hour – and this speed is the one displayed by the meter, the actual speed being closer to 70. The result is sometimes dangerous overruns and the heavy goods vehicles, which really drive 80 kilometres per hour, are immediately behind the cars, which presents a serious safety problem. As Valérie Lacroute said, the measure is far from having produced the desired result and has probably even caused accidents, including fatal ones. This is simply explained: after the communication, or even hypermediatization, which followed the decision, people became afraid. Some are still afraid and others take risks to double because they drive only 80 miles per hour instead of 90 kilometres per hour. Do not say that the fault lies with the presidents of departmental councils who take on their responsibilities because, on the contrary, the same anathema could be addressed to the great administration, to the National Road Safety Council or even to the minister, who would not have done what would have been necessary to avoid the 3259 killed last year! No! Let's be modest, each other, and work together. We can find points of convergence. You have shown us, Mr Secretary of State, that you can take into account certain demands: on communal roads, for example, mayors will be able to modulate the maximum speed and, eventually, restore the limit to 90 kilometres per hour according to the quality of the road and, why not, in the opinion of the departmental security commission. Similarly, department presidents will be able to modulate the maximum speed on departmental roads. However, the Prefect, the Minister of Transport or his Secretary of State, or even the Prime Minister – no matter what – or even the President of the Department, if you wish, in short someone must be able to make proposals on national roads. You will not be able to make it clear to the French that the speeds will vary on a route linking two cities via a road sometimes national and sometimes departmental – as is the case with the RN 83 between Lons-le-Saunier and Besançon, for example – while the gauge and the quality of the road do not change at all! It should be added that, as by chance, there are several radars on this section of the national road in question, some of which are automatic... Let us not lie: you go into the field like us, and we are not going to throw nonsense into our face. What do our fellow citizens tell us? That the radars are used to fill the state's crates. We, both the majority and the opposition, explain to them, however, the need to promote road safety. Please help us, Secretary of State; Help parliamentarians, MPs and senators become real messengers of road safety by supporting our arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u386	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u387	I would agree with my colleagues, who have said things very well: a little more than a year after the introduction of the speed limit at 80 kilometres per hour, reality has caught up with all the speeches of the time that the reduction of the maximum speed of 10 kilometres per hour on the secondary network would solve the problem of road mortality. We welcomed last year's reduction in mortality, but it was already in place at the beginning of the year, before the transition to 80 kilometres per hour. The evolution is cyclical and follows many other parameters much more decisive than the reduction of 10 kilometres per hour: telephone and alcohol, for example, or driving behaviour. It is above all about these factors that we must act on. Another paradox of the measure you have taken is that there are still roads on the secondary network, sometimes in the countryside, on which the maximum speed has been reduced to 80 kilometres per hour and where it is not even possible to drive at this speed because they go too far and the danger would be too great. I repeat what I said at the time: in the case of roads and passages that are too dangerous, let us reduce the maximum speed to 70 kilometres per hour, as before. As for the very rolling straight-line crossings, which do not present any difficulties – where the reduction of the maximum speed causes, on the contrary, dangers related to overtaking and heavy vehicles, as Jean-Marie Sermier pointed out – the maximum speed must be maintained at 80 kilometres per hour. Finally, you cannot, as the Prime Minister has done rather loosely, let's say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u388	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u389	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...to place the responsibility for the passage at 80 kilometres per hour on the shoulders of the presidents of departmental councils. Of course, they will take on their responsibilities, but we must take our own by establishing a national rule that specifies where it is possible to drive 80 kilometres per hour. For our part, we are ready to take on this responsibility, as we were at the outset – even more so today, when statistics and reality confirm our arguments. We will then be able to work on many other aspects of the behaviour of motorists to save lives without penalising the inhabitants of peripheral territories who do not have, to move and go to work, an alternative solution to the car. Two minutes per journey over 220 days worked correspond for some to almost a week of leave or work: this is an arithmetical observation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u390	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u391	I'm afraid we'd have to take note of our disagreement about this article – and you're talking to a former Member of Parliament for a rural riding, whom he surveyed to the point of leaving a few points of permit... First of all, let me reassure you, Mrs Lacroute: CNSR's recommendations will not be binding or included in the law. Once a proposal to increase the maximum speed has been submitted, the Departmental Road Safety Commission will provide a simple and non-binding opinion. As for the president of the departmental council, he will draft a decree and an accident study. However, a committee of experts cannot be reasonably criticized for issuing an expert opinion on accidentology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u392	Experts must not be ayatollahs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u393	The objective that led to the adoption of the general measure, now relaxed, was indeed to save lives: the experts in question considered that the overall reduction of the maximum speed of 10 kilometres per hour would save lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u394	What about the numbers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u395	Precisely, the numbers speak. While we will be able to return to the last six months and the effect of radar degradation, in the full year 208 lives have been saved since the entry into force of the reduction of the maximum speed to 80 kilometres per hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u396	It's a fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u397	This figure is not linked to the measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u398	Let's all roll at 60, while you're at it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u399	Yes, that's a fact. I naturally agree with Mr Di Filippo that the reduction in the maximum speed is not isolated from the measures presented last year under the road safety plan, which concern, in particular, the fight against excessive speed, alcohol driving or the use of narcotics – we can come back to that. As far as the exclusion of the national network is concerned, it is again based on road safety requirements. It should be noted that the reduction of the maximum speed to 80 kilometres per hour has been imposed on a network of 400,000 kilometres, whereas the national network covers only 4000 of these 400,000 kilometres.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u400	It's worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u401	However, these 4000 kilometres of roads, particularly in your department, Mr Descoeur, are among the busiest sectors of the national network, where you can drive the fastest. We will therefore maintain the speed limit on these roads at 80 kilometres per hour. Finally, for the sake of clarity, I would like to recall the procedure: the elected representatives retain complete freedom. The chairman of the departmental council wishing to increase the maximum speed on the axes within his competence formulates a draft decree and accompanies it with an accident study on the part concerned. The departmental road safety commission then issues a simple and non-binding opinion, after which the elected officer, in complete freedom and responsibility, decides whether or not to increase the maximum speed on the portion in question. The framework is therefore clear and takes into account both road safety considerations, accidents on these axes – a major concern that we all share – and the free administration of the territories under the conditions I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u402	I have before me four amendments, Nos 20, 733, 696 and 92, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 20 and 733 are identical. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u403	This amendment, of which I mentioned the objective a moment ago, aims to ensure that the prefects, as well as the mayors and the presidents of departmental councils, may derogate from the rule for roads which fall under their responsibility, in this case national roads. Why? I repeat, although the Secretary of State has already mentioned statistics which I was about to quote: at the present stage of the text, almost a third of the national network will be deprived of this possibility of easing. That's what's discriminating! The network covers 400,000 kilometres of national and departmental roads, and even 1 million kilometres if one takes into account the communal network, which falls within the scope of the relaxation measure! [[Smile]] I am speaking to my colleagues in the majority, many of whom are concerned, and I have spoken with many of them – who are not present at the moment, but I do not despair that they are coming, even if I fear that they will be victims of the majority solidarity syndrome... If you reject this amendment, you will remove 3000 kilometres of national roads from this system. Some 20 or 30 departments will be involved, while those themselves face the greatest difficulties and are the most landlocked. In fact, they are often rural and middle-mountain departments. And now they will be deprived of the possibility of adapting the speed limit! None of them claim to allow driving at 90 kilometres per hour on all roads. No need for a Prime Minister's order to drive less than 80 kilometers per hour on a winding mountain road! We thought about it before the idea crossed his mind. The fact is that travel times will be reduced to those of the 1980s. In the Cantal, the hourly average does not exceed 60 kilometres per hour. Since you mentioned the national road that crosses my department from east to west, Secretary of State, I consulted the ViaMichelin navigator – even though I usually travel this route without worrying about GPS. Between Massiac and Maurs, 120 kilometres, ViaMichelin announces two hours and twenty minutes of journey! Two hours twenty, which corresponds to an hourly average of less than 55 kilometers per hour! That's our reality! We therefore wish, for sections with proven safety conditions, to be able to exceed convoys of slow vehicles. Let me make a somewhat bucolic point that I made in committee: the transhumance of cattle will end in a few weeks, and the motorists will be forced to follow vehicles running 40 kilometres per hour! It's no more complicated than that! Today, everyone is trying to save time. When we return to our ridings, we will be informed in Orly that, thanks to the Grand Paris Express, the centre of Paris will soon be less than fifteen minutes from the airport. That's fabulous. But when we ask not to lose two, five or ten minutes, we are treated as negligible and second-rate citizens. We have time to lose, when others have to rush. Some ask for additional TGV stations, others want to delete them to go faster. We, as the state has forgotten to develop our national road, have only to take our time. It's quite unbearable! Mr Secretary of State, you have said that our national road is accidental, but a slightly more careful examination would tell you that it is particularly so in its winding portions, sections which would obviously not be affected by the easing of the limit to 80 kilometres per hour. Many people consider that the issue of speed limitation is not unrelated to the anger expressed at the end of last year, because it rightly feeds the sense of abandonment and territorial divide. If you do not comply with our legitimate request, you will aggravate the territorial divide, since there will be a new category of territories, consisting of some 20 departments, in which it will be forbidden to drive more than 80 kilometres per hour on national roads. The common expression of "France with two speeds" here is a perfect illustration. All of this is not acceptable. Some of our colleagues have advocated the relevance of the relaxation measure. An independent committee participated in the debate on the figures by producing; Unfortunately, the August statistics suggest that not all problems are solved, which everyone here regrets. Again, let us avoid presenting this debate as a quarrel between the prudent and the lunatic. Neither has a lesson to learn. We are simply asking for equal treatment. You are about to commit a territorial injustice: because twenty departments do not have a modern network at the level, you tell their inhabitants to slow down. That's not acceptable. Our colleague Di Filippo has just mentioned this, a study shows that people carrying out, for professional reasons, more than 100,000 kilometres a year on these roads lose more than one week a year in travel time as long as they have to follow convoys of slow vehicles. I urge our colleagues to show territorial solidarity. A decision has been made: you have rightly agreed, thank you, to increase the maximum speed allowed on municipal and departmental roads; We propose the same for national roads. I had defended the idea of increasing the speed allowed in a question to the Government, to which the Prime Minister had replied that easing would increase speed breaks on road routes. All right. But if you rule out the possibility of increasing the maximum speed allowed on 3000 kilometers of road, we can return the argument to you. You're gonna create confusion! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I don't hope you can hear right. I would warn you, with sympathy and in a well-intentioned manner, against the disappointment and disillusionment that the rejection of this amendment would entail in the countryside. Our fellow citizens had understood that the maximum speed allowed was again 90 kilometres per hour and that the relaxation was confirmed; So you will find it hard to explain to them that if the Prime Minister has taken a step backwards, he refuses to eat his hat and integrate national roads into the scheme. That's not acceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u404	On the identical amendments Nos 20 and 733, the Republicans have asked for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 733.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u405	Vincent Descoeur rose first among us to relay to Parliament the reaction of the people against lowering the maximum speed to 80 kilometres per hour. He explained very well the value of these two identical amendments. I would like to go back to the numbers to show you that you are not far from joining us – only ideology would prevent you from going through the distance that still separates us. It is not possible that 1097000 kilometres of municipal, inter-municipal, departmental and national roads, the management of which is, for 99% of the network, the responsibility of mayors, presidents of EPCI or presidents of departmental councils, benefit from the measure of relaxation, agreed because you implicitly acknowledged that the limitation of speed to 80 kilometres per hour did not bring the results you expected – which is a pity, because we could all rejoice at a significant reduction in accidents caused by the reduction of speed, but this is unfortunately not the case – with the exception of national roads. You cannot explain to us that 1% of the national network, having a larger size since national and not being so poorly maintained – even if we all want an effort to be made in our departments – remains 80 kilometres per hour. We do not say that you, together with your senior administration, would be responsible for a possible increase in accidents where, of the 99% of the network, the mayors or chairmen of departmental councils would have restored the maximum speed allowed to 90 kilometres per hour. Both must lead calmly to a solution, which has already been consistently implemented by the elected representatives. Indeed, all the Members present here who have one day exercised responsibility in a local executive know this: the mayor or the chairman of the departmental council can reduce the maximum permissible speed from 90 to 70 kilometres per hour when a road section presents a problem. As mayor of Dole, I asked, before the current debate arose, for solutions to be found for a section of an accidental departmental road bypassing the city: with the prefect, we reduced the maximum speed allowed to 70 kilometres per hour, which no one has complained of! It is necessary to leave it to the elected representatives to set the maximum permissible speed, so that it is fixed according to the quality of the road and not the ideology of some important administrator of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u406	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u407	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I want to be clear: you have no legitimacy to charge the French, especially those living in rural areas, for owning an automobile. Mr. Secretary of State, resist! Make your decision yourself, don't get imposed by someone around you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u408	Mrs Valérie Lacroute has the floor to support Amendment No. 696.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u409	This is a fallback amendment. Mr Secretary of State, the amendments to this joint debate give you the opportunity to come back to the inconsistency of leaving the maximum speed allowed at 80 kilometres per hour on national roads when it could return to 90 kilometres per hour on departmental and communal roads. We propose to entrust to the departmental road safety commission, a recognized and honourable body composed of people and elected officials, the task of examining the situation of national, departmental and communal roads in order to ensure the consistency of the speed limitation at the department level. It is necessary to avoid the situation, which is incomprehensible to the French, in which the maximum speed allowed would be lower on national roads than on the departmental and communal roads, whereas they are larger gauges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u410	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u411	If the Senate has gone back to the provision that your majority adopted at first reading, it is not entirely innocent. You may consider that because of the non-accumulation of mandates, we have lost all contact with local communities, but that is not true for us or for senators, who are elected by representatives of local communities. Senators have seen the extent to which such decisions have an impact on local elected officials. I do not understand at the end of what reasoning you refuse the Prefects the possibility of setting the maximum speed allowed on national roads at 90 kilometres per hour – I agree with the provisions presented by my colleague Vincent Descoeur, whose fight on this subject I welcome. How will motorists adapt when the authorized speed changes every 10 or 20 kilometres?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u412	He's right, it's dangerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u413	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We all know how dangerous this is. I therefore propose that you adopt the amendment to which Mrs Anthoine is the first signatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u414	What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u415	It is obviously unfavorable. It is not logical for the Prefect, the representative of the State, to take decisions that run counter to the national rules established by the Government. It is the Government's political choice to limit the speed to 80 kilometres per hour on roads managed by the State. It may, on the other hand, be relevant for a political authority to decide to derogate, within 10 kilometres per hour, from these rules, but not from the representative of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u416	It's not possible to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u417	The National Road Safety Council issued an opinion, but in response to a topical question in the Senate, the Prime Minister indicated that the opinion did not express the Government's position. The CNSR makes recommendations, on which the departmental commissions will be able to base their opinions, but which do not bind road system operators. They will be able to freely implement the adjustment of the limit to 80 kilometres per hour, provided for by the mobility guidance bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u418	You should have taken advantage of your vacation to listen to people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u419	... and take on their responsibilities, because the CNSR is, like the CDSRs, only an advisory body. This will be possible as soon as the law comes into force, without the need for any implementing legislation, decree or decree. [[Long exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] I therefore express a very unfavourable opinion on these amendments. We have repeated it many times, the decision has been taken, and the Secretary of State has recalled the disagreement between the majority and the Republican opposition group on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u420	Your answer is only to save time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u421	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] No, Mr. Le Fur, I just want to state my point of view, and I still think I have the right to express myself! You're waiting for the rapporteur's opinion, aren't you? Unless you're only interested in the advice of the Secretary of State. You have spoken fifty times on this subject, so we have the right to give our opinion. The vote will of course confirm the unfavourable opinion I have just given.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u422	You're sure you're right! What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u423	[[Protests on the benches of the commission]] Stop your arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u424	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u425	I will repeat a few points and answer some questions. First of all, with regard to the exclusion of the national network – 4000 kilometres of roads on the 400,000 covered by the general measure – you said, Mr Descoeur, that the accident was greater on winding roads, especially in your department. It is denied by all the studies, which show that it is on national roads, in a straight line, when drivers accelerate, that this rate is highest. However, the State network is made up of such roads. That is why we will maintain the limit of 80 kilometres per hour over these 4000 kilometres. With regard to the nature of the recommendations that have been mentioned, I would like to reiterate that they are the result of a committee of experts in accidentology, that they will not be included in the law and that the opinion delivered by the Departmental Road Safety Commission will not be a binding but simple opinion. The chairman of the departmental council may choose whether or not to follow him: if he wishes to raise the threshold of speed limitation, he will have to present a draft decree and accompany him with an accident study on the section concerned; it will make the political choice whether or not to raise this threshold, with the advice of the CDSR.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u426	The elected will be prevented!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u427	With this provision of Article 15, we respect, I believe, the free choice of local and regional authorities, in this case the chairman of the departmental council, and we reconcile it with the imperatives of road safety. I quote again this figure: in full year, in the last twelve months, despite the deterioration of radars, 208 lives have been saved as a result of the lowering of the speed limitation threshold by 10 kilometres per hour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u428	It has nothing to do with it, you know it very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u429	You know very well that the deterioration of radars probably has a significant impact on the deterioration of the August figures cited by Mr Sermier. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In the light of all these explanations, both with regard to the 4000 kilometres of national network and the procedure available to the chairmen of departmental councils, I give an unfavorable opinion on all your amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u430	This is a marked territorial injustice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u431	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u432	I really regret this stubbornness, Secretary of State. We want to restore flexibility to the 80-kilometre-per-hour measure, and communities will not generalize the 90-kilometre-per-hour threshold! We are all responsible, in the departments, and we want to proceed quietly to restore it where there is no accident, where it is possible. No one understands that the State is so blocked with regard to its national network. Especially since this amendment is not revolutionary: it offers the prefects the opportunity to pass at the threshold of 90 kilometers per hour – and we know how much the prefects are at your attention in front of the upper floors! We ask for a little flexibility so that the French would say: "There they listened to us. Rather than generalizing everything, which is bullshit, they do it intelligently. » [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In any case, we will vote in favour of this amendment, and I recommend that all of our colleagues do the same. When we explain, once we return to our ridings, that despite the possibility of passing 90 kilometres per hour in some places, the state has blocked for the entire national network, people will tell us that we are completely cracked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u433	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 20 and 733.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u434	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 100 Number of votes cast 98 Absolute majority 50 For adoption 37 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u435	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u436	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u437	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u438	The meeting was resumed. Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u439	The LaREM majority wanted to vote against the amendments we had proposed concerning the easing of the measurement of 80 kilometres per hour. We take note of this since we are Republicans. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] However, at the time of the vote on Article 15a B, which includes these measures, it appears that the banks of the group The Republicans were very helpful, as were some benches in the centre, while the majority were no longer there, as if they had had the shameful victory. I don't know if they were hiding, if they were gone...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u440	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u441	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In this large empty set, few arms have risen. On our benches, however, we were all present to make it clear that we wanted this relaxation. A little like the referees who are now asking for the video, so I invite all French people to watch the video to see what happened at the time of the vote. Dear fellow citizens, you will observe how many arms have risen on the side of the majority and how many on the side of our group. Every Frenchman will judge. Mr President, you are president – very well indeed, and it is not always easy. You told me that by one vote probably, the majority had been the majority. I admit it, I accept it, but the French will judge, simply with the video.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u442	Thank you for your compliments, Mr. Sermier. I have indeed seen a majority of arms rise in favour of the article at the time of the vote – I regret it for you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u443	Amendment No 707 by Mr Christophe Bouillon is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u444	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u445	Earlier, I defended an amendment that reflected my concern about road safety in Paris. Article 18 gives me the opportunity to return to this major issue by evoking the danger posed to users and pedestrians by the anarchic practice of scooters in the city, a phenomenon in vogue, especially in Paris, where fifteen competing fleets test their vehicles on the road – 20,000 in total. If Article 18 more strictly regulates their installation on public space, it is wrong that it ignores the issue of security... [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It would be even better if you listened to me, Mr. Secretary of State. Forgive me, but since I spoke, you haven't listened to me for a moment. Since we have not yet had the opportunity to debate together, I ask you, at the very least, to have the courtesy to listen to my inquiry. Earlier, you rejected an amendment on the grounds that the Paris region was not concerned. I am talking here about a Parisian subject, which, I am aware, has little attention in this House, particularly on the part of the Government. This is indeed a matter of road safety, since we have deplored the deaths since the discussion we had with your predecessor in charge of transport. It would therefore be welcome, on this substantive subject, for you to take the time to listen to what I have to say and to respond quietly. I hope, in fact, that, after a session suspension, you will be able to receive your full attention. Is it reasonable, I said, to leave children 12 years old, who do not have the slightest notion of the road code, to evolve in the middle of the roadway on a scooter, which is also without helmets? At first reading, the minister told me that we had to stop "wronging people."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u446	I was the one who said that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u447	With such words, we would never have imposed on anyone the wearing of the belt in a car or the wearing of the helmet on a motorcycle. In my view, the Government seriously underestimates the magnitude of the phenomenon we are facing, which is increasingly mobilising citizens, in any case Parisians. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work done by the members of the association APACAUVI – Association philanthropique action contre l'anarchie urbaine vector d'incivilité – which, following very regrettable accidents in connection with scooters, which I mentioned earlier, decided to alert the public authorities, obtaining some progress, in particular on the issue of insurance. I understand, Mr. Secretary of State, that you do not hear that the bill is evolving on the subject of security. Nevertheless, in view of the decree you have to make in the autumn, I stress the absolute need to tighten the rules on road safety. In the face of new accidents that will not fail to occur, after those who have killed in Paris, no one will be able to say that he did not know. I insist on the legal age we're talking about: 12. We wanted to raise it to 14 years of age, but our amendment to that effect was rejected. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, I would like you to take a stand on the polemic which opposed the interior minister Christophe Castaner to the mayor of Paris on the parking of scooters. The Minister of the Interior refuses to consider them as vehicles subject to the obligation to park in accordance with the provisions of the Road Traffic Code. It is a way to abdicate from the anarchy on the sidewalks, and it is obviously not acceptable. Thank you for your attention and for the clarifications you will give me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u448	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u449	I will go in the same direction as my colleague Kuster. The phenomenon we are talking about is the cause of many accidents and violations of the road code, and it gives users a sense of impunity: you travel by electric scooter as you would travel on foot, but not at the same speed or with the same control. However, with these new modes of travel, it is almost impossible to identify the perpetrator of the accident or offence. Such incivilities are not acceptable. An association of victims of an electric scooter accident was recently received in your ministry, Secretary of State. What came out of it? Shouldn't we go towards compulsory registration of these devices?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u450	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 473.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u451	It aims at the anarchic development, if I can describe it as such, of the fleets of electric scooters. Mrs Kuster recalled, these machines are now more than 20,000 in the streets of Paris and, within a few years, they will be 40,000 invading the streets. So far, everyone was pleased with these start-ups that created activity; But everyone has come back, including the city hall of Paris, which, considering that all this goes a little far, is beginning to advocate regulation, including through a fee for the occupation of public space. It is in my eyes the minimum, and I believe it is even necessary to go beyond it. If, once again, we let our public space become a commercial space offered to the appetite of fifteen private operators, we will not get away with it: the scooters will remain placed in an anarchic way on the sidewalks, with the problems that this poses, for example, to people with reduced mobility or to mothers with strollers. Perhaps the municipalization of the services that offer these "personal mobility devices", as you call them, offers a way. The town halls would thus have the hand to manage the volume of these fleets, to verify that the public space for which they are responsible is properly used and that these services represent a real added value, not an additional danger. Such a municipalisation – and I will come back to it with Article 20 – would also, let us say, put an end to the "uberization" of the personnel who must manage the commissioning of these fleets and the reloading of the equipment, under conditions of employment close to slavery.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u452	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u453	The rise of free-floating is to be encouraged as it allows the emergence of cleaner mobility solutions and promotes intermodality. The challenge is not to prohibit or municipalize these services, but to frame them in order to reconcile the development of cleaner forms of mobility and the preservation of public safety and tranquillity. It is therefore necessary to give the communities the tools to regulate these practices: occupation of the public domain, conditions of deployment and maintenance, supervision of sound signals, compliance with traffic rules or removal of equipment which is out of use. That is precisely what Article 18 stands for, in this very different sense from your amendment, Mr Prud'homme. You want to entrust all the management of the services we are talking about to the municipalities. These services would therefore be out of the commercial domain and would no longer be in the hands of the private sector. Apart from this consideration, article 18 addresses all your concerns. The opinion is unfavourable because we do not have the same conception of the market, but your fears, I repeat, are taken into account not only by the article, but also by the decree that Mrs Borne announced on 1 January 2020, which I believe the Secretary of State will confirm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u454	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u455	With regard to security, Mrs Kuster, the decree currently being analysed in the Council of State will be published in the coming weeks. It contains measures that we consider to be balanced, such as the legal age of 12 years – as in the case of bicycles, for example – the obligation to travel on cycle paths and the objective of a maximum speed of 20 kilometres per hour. As far as regulation is concerned, Mrs Auconie, the modalities for the removal of the equipment – as well as any fees – will be specified in the title of occupation, which, as you know, will also list the conditions for the deployment of the services offered by the platforms: this may be in response to the controversy you mentioned. Finally, Mr Prud'homme, I observe first of all that half of the operators who were present in Paris and flooded the market have disappeared: there has therefore been a form of natural regulation. Article 11, which allows the different operators of services to be grouped into the same system, is also capable of regulating an offer which, by its initial form, is a bit chaotic. I hope that these elements of the answer will allow you to see a little more clearly what framework we intend to apply to these personal travel devices – since that is how they have been appointed – and I express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u456	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u457	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State, but she did not enlighten me or, above all, reassure me. You have confirmed what we already know: the establishment of a legal age of 12 years. I would like to see what the 12-year-old traffic on the highway means. As far as traffic is concerned, you have referred not to the road, but to the cycle paths. But in Paris, as you know, not all roads have roads. And since it will be impossible to postpone all the traffic of the scooters on the bike paths, it was on the road that it was intended to allow it so far. We defended, at first reading, amendments – relating to age, which we wanted to raise to 14, and the mandatory wearing of the helmet – which unfortunately were not accepted in a new reading. I understand that it is the responsibility of the parents to take care of all this, but, as I pointed out earlier, we have been able to impose, in terms of road safety, gestures that have become obvious, such as the wearing of the seat belt. I therefore do not understand the laxity on the subject we are talking about. As at first reading, we discussed speed limitation at 80 kilometres per hour, with the Government seeking to prevent the risk of accidents. However, what you have just answered, Secretary of State, is not at all in the same direction. You didn't answer me either on the parking lot. In the absence of verbalization, anarchy reigns, with the risks of falling for pedestrians. As my colleague, Auconia, suggested at first reading, one could very well consider registering these devices: it would establish the responsibilities for verbalization, and would ensure the traceability of any incident. I really insist, anyway, on road safety. Could you tell me where these machines will be allowed to move? If only on bike paths, 12-year-olds will automatically find themselves on the road in Paris. And you've seen how things are going today in Paris: it's just hell.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u458	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u459	We do not have the same conception of the market, Madam rapporteur: I confirm it to you. We've known about this for a little while. It's pretty bad, Secretary of State, to hear you talk about "chaos" to describe how things turned out after the provision of public space to free-floating operators, these new 2.0 services that illustrate the start-up nation of mobility. It will happen exactly what happens when you boast about the merits of the competition: in the end, there will be only one or two operators, who will share the market and agree on the prices. And who will be responsible for monitoring that they respect the removal of abandoned devices or that contracts are respected? In theory, it is the municipalities, provided they have the means to do so. The problem is that they will not have them, so that public space will continue to be used in an anarchy, with all the problems that this entails in terms of road safety and displacement for the most vulnerable populations I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u460	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u461	The very objective of Article 18, Mr Prud'homme, is to regulate and order these new mobilitys in order to get out of the chaos that you have described, as a result of the spread of all kinds of offers on several large French cities, which can cause an embarrassment for traffic and even very serious accidents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u462	And who will control it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u463	I'm coming. The security arrangements will be defined in the decree. I confirm, Mrs Kuster, that the minimum age of 12 is aligned with that in which children can use bicycles under the same conditions, i.e. without helmets. For the rest, you mentioned parental responsibility and you're right. Traffic arrangements will be available on cycle paths when they exist or, if they do not exist, on the road, but not on the road. So we're still in the same frame as for bikes. With regard to the terms of parking and removal, they will be described in the titles of occupation of the public domain to be issued to mobility operators. I believe that all these provisions will make it possible to define a satisfactory regulatory framework, so that users' demand for new mobility can be met while at the same time doing their utmost to ensure that it does not cause too much discomfort or cause disturbances to public order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u464	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u465	I do not want to prolong the debate, but what is surprising in your answer, Secretary of State, is that at no time do you think that there can be a risk. You answer: it's like bicycles, and hop, the case is closed! But we can't compare a bike and a scooter! For now, the kids are used to riding on the sidewalks, they don't go on the road, and in my opinion, they're going to keep riding on the sidewalks, with the risk of accidents that this raises – I don't have the numbers in mind, but I could find them. All you have to do is go to the accident department: at first reading, a doctor had given us examples. I do not understand that, on such a subject, you are locked in your convictions and that you decide that this is how it is, without ever leaving room for experimentation. You repeat: bicycles are twelve years old, so scooters will be twelve years old; There is no helmet for bicycles, so there will be no helmet for scooters; and the 12-year-olds will be allowed to travel on the roadway. Of course, the state can't frame everything, but look at what's happening: it's not a country road! I would like you to become aware of the situation and to receive the testimony of people who have fallen or broken the femur collar – elderly people, children or others. We cannot be content with what you just said. I am sorry that you are obstinating, even on such issues, when it comes to road safety. Your speech reveals a certain inconsistency between the Government and the Government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u466	Amendment No 439 by Mrs Bérangère Couillard is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u467	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 709.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u468	New passenger transport operators often deploy their services where demand is highest, which is the most interesting for them. In doing so, they may neglect certain sectors, even though they fall within the remit of the mobility organizing authority. With this amendment, we propose that a dialogue be established between the mobility organising authority and the operator as to the scope of the service's deployment. The operating fee could thus be adjusted according to the area that the operator will actually cover.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u469	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u470	The conditions of deployment, in particular geographical conditions, may be specified by the title of occupation of the public domain in accordance with Article 18. Occupancy charges, on the other hand, follow the rules laid down in the general code of ownership of public persons, without the need to modify the criteria for their fixing within the specific framework of the regulation of free-floating. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u471	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u472	State law provides that royalties shall be paid upstream, prior to the exercise of the activity. For practical and legal reasons, I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u473	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u474	If I understand correctly, the fee is defined prior to the award and is therefore not modifiable according to the service actually performed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u475	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u476	That is precisely the question that we are raising through the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u477	However, the fee may be adjusted on the occasion of the annual renewal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u478	This will only be possible at the end of a contract, which can be annual or multi-annual.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u479	It will be rather annual.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u480	Secretary of State, I suggest you answer the microphone. It'll be clearer. If you wish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u481	So I'm going to clarify things. You are right, Mrs Battistel: modulation cannot be done a posteriori, since, once you pay the fee, you are given the title and you carry out the activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u482	Or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u483	Or not, indeed. However, the title of activity is renegotiated and renewed annually. It is within this framework that the fees can be adjusted, possibly depending on what happened the previous year. This is the way to look at things: without malice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u484	But it doesn't happen everywhere...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u485	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 131.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u486	This is an amendment of common sense. Currently, scooters are left anywhere on the sidewalks, and they pose a real safety problem. The amendment aims to give the municipalities real power of action in the face of the increase in incivilities caused by these scooters and above all to encourage the platforms which make them available to do everything possible to ensure that users adopt a more responsible behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u487	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 576.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u488	It concerns the supervision of mobility services without a home station, in the same spirit as the previous one. At first reading, the National Assembly had abolished the possibility for the community concerned or, by delegation, for the AOM to impose sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the requirements of the licence issued to operators. It is proposed that these sanctions be reinstated in order to meet the operators' responsibilities. They need to feel more concerned about the problems posed by some of their equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u489	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u490	The sanctions contained in the original bill have not disappeared. The general code of ownership of public persons states in particular: "No one may, without having a title enabling him to do so, occupy an dependence on the public domain of a public person... or use it within limits exceeding the right of use which belongs to all. Therefore, there is no need for specific sanctions for free-floating: they already exist. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If I don't, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u491	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u492	Such sanctions are already provided for in ordinary law. The temporary title of occupation of the public domain may provide for sanctions, which will be imposed by the different levels of territorial authorities. The amendment is therefore satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u493	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u494	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to support Amendment No. 734.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u495	It seeks to clarify the responsibilities of each other in the event of a personal displacement device being derided. We propose that the penalty in the event of a debride of a personal motorized displacement device or a pedal cycle be imposed not on the person who maintains the machine, but on the person who carried out the debridement. In fact, people sometimes untrace their equipment before taking it to the professional who maintains it, without the latter knowing what is happening. To put an end to injustice, it would be appropriate to punish those who debride.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u496	I call Mr Joaquim Pueyo to support Amendment No. 712.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u497	Article 19 is intended to ensure regulation of undertakings which provide their customers with assisted pedal cycles. In its current wording, the article deals only with cycles with assisted pedaling; it does not cover categories L1e and L2e of the road code, i.e. two- and three-wheel mopeds with a cylinder capacity of less than 50 cubic metres. Currently, the regulation of motorcycle-taxis is only applicable to vehicles of category L3e, L4e and L5e; It ignores the categories L1e and L2e. The mention of mopeds alongside the pedal cycles would, in our view, make it possible to better regulate transport carried out with vehicles of these categories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u498	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 133.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u499	It aims to create an annual register of vehicle condition and maintenance. It is simply a matter of guaranteeing to the tenant that the vehicle, outside of the rental periods, is maintained and that it is in good working order and without hidden defects. This would address safety issues related to the maintenance of scooters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u500	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u501	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u502	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u503	Such an obligation does not seem to me compatible with the objective of introducing a lighter system of supervision of the activity. In addition, the draft law already provides for the possibility for communities to define technical requirements that will ensure the proper condition of the assisted pedalling cycles used for the transport of persons. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u504	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u505	I'm holding it. We propose that companies have a specific maintenance log for scooters. The Government's response is that local and regional authorities will be able to define requirements; It's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u506	Right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u507	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u508	Article 20 contains specific provisions on the protection of platform workers. It is the result of intense work by the rapporteur – whom she once again welcomes –, in the continuation of a reflection that we had initiated during the examination of the bill for the freedom to choose her professional future. A lot has happened in the last few weeks, especially during the summer, a strike by the Deliveroo bike delivery companies, who had seen the pricing of their races drop, decided unilaterally by the platform. A number of developments are also taking place abroad: Deliveroo has closed in Germany, and in the United States a Californian law provides for the requalification of all the workers concerned as employees. We therefore need to talk again about this subject, in particular the representation of these workers. For my part, I am convinced that many of them do not want to be re-qualified and given an employee status.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u509	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u510	They are self-employed workers who aspire to freedom and autonomy, but they want to be respected as such. It is certainly necessary for the law to set out a number of rights. In particular, it is essential that these workers know the price of a race before accepting it, it is the least one can do – who would agree to work without knowing how much he will be paid? This is a major step forward under Article 20. Other provisions will be included in the charters that the platforms will be able to establish. The question of the representation of these workers must also be resolved so that they can have representatives, either elected or appointed otherwise, for example on the basis of the principle of membership. This representation would allow them to negotiate with the platforms. Today, the situation is such that one of the delivery agents who took part in this summer's strike saw his relationship with the platform terminated overnight: this kind of thing is not acceptable! The Government has made a commitment to make progress on this matter by order. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Secretary of State about the method and timetable for the representation of these workers. Is there anything new in this matter?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u511	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u512	I imagine that the rapporteur and Mr Aurélien Taché know the very liberal Institut Montaigne. He provides extraordinary work, even if his reflections do not circulate in all corners of the Parisian sidewalks. He has just registered a tremendous number of memberships from the platforms, driven by Axa, the well-known private insurer. This makes it clear that we are pointing out a completely scandalous text that constitutes a legislative cavalier, as I have already explained – Mr Taché does not finally say anything else, even if, unlike me, he does it discreetly. Indeed, with the provisions of Article 20, you seek to circumvent the jurisprudence resulting from the judgment of the Court of Cassation, following the action of the delivery agents of Take Eat Easy, which has enabled the existence of a link of subordination between the platforms and the "self-entrepreneurs", as it is said, which, in reality, are rather precarious. In order to circumvent this case law, you simply say that the directorates of the platforms will be able to draw up a charter – it is not even an obligation – which they will write on their own, since, as Aurélien Taché pointed out, there is no one in front of them, since the workers in question have no possibility of social dialogue. All this must allow the non-requalification of their contracts into employment contracts to be legitimated, to prevent them from moving from the status of service providers to that of employees. That's the kind of maneuvers you're doing at the turn of the bill! Mr. Taché, you are close to becoming an accomplice in forced labour! You're an accomplice in forced labour! Read Humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u513	What paper?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u514	[[Smile]] It's a good reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u515	What you just described, Humanity was doing four days ago. If what you are proposing is not, in fact, a legislative provision complicit in what is practically forced labour, tell me what it is? In any case, it is absolutely scandalous. Mr President, in my speech I would have defended in advance Amendments Nos 653, 654 and 655.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u516	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u517	I kind of opened the debate on clause 20, yesterday, in the general discussion, by describing the anger of our colleagues in the Senate, particularly Olivier Jacquin, by discovering how an amendment could be developed. They revealed how the Montaigne Institute had published a report that was clearly inspired by lobbyists and economic actors linked to the platforms, which constituted a clear conflict of interest, the content of which had been taken over by the Government, almost copy and paste, to include it in the bill. I have already denounced the form, with regard to respect for a democratic process, the introduction of an amendment whose origin has been revealed to us. This revelation had disrupted the normal and quiet course of the examination of the text. In substance, we are faced with a real dilemma. At the end of the 19th century, all the work of the legislator, all the progressive struggle, all the work of the socialists and all those who were humanists consisted in creating forms of wage-earning establishing contracts of reciprocity of rights and duties between the employer and the employees. It was a matter of getting out of what was most common until 1850 or 1890: the way work and the system of day labourers. At the time, the only person responsible for industrial accidents was the employee, because of his malice. The Act of 9 April 1998 on the liability for accidents at work, which came out of the proposals of a worker's deputy, created an employer's liability in the event of an accident at work. There is a similar historical movement in Germany which leads to mutualisations, collective safety and, paradoxically, a new phase of prosperity, because, in order to avoid accidents, mining and forging industries are creating tools for the prevention of accidents at work, which is at the origin of a genuine chain of human and economic progress. With "uberization", we are almost witnessing the installation of an inverse movement for a significant part of the population. We have the choice between two paths that go far beyond the challenges of the LOM – the mobility guidance law. Either we consider that we need to create a status for the self-employed who should be consolidated with appropriate protection tools – I am not talking about liberal professions, but about a new type of work for which collective solidarity must be created and invented – or we simply consider that these workers are de facto employees, because, as our colleague Hubert Wulfranc has perfectly explained with his usual verve, they are in an obvious situation of subordination. On the other hand, the amendment you introduced to Article 20 has the immense disadvantage of creating a kind of legislative no man's land by referring to voluntarism and charters – everything that characterizes soft law – while the fate of men and women is at stake. The law must be courageous, whether it chooses one way or the other, and it must resolve this question. In any case, I condemn the harmful conditions under which an amendment has been drawn up to introduce the provisions we are talking about. Without having tabled amendments ourselves, we will strongly support those of our left-wing colleagues who have been more vigilant and responsive than we have, in order to avoid this heresy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u518	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u519	My speech is a defence of Amendment No 474. I support my colleagues who explained how cynical Article 20 was in its development at the same time as it represented an unprecedented step backwards, a way of returning, as Hubert Wulfranc explained, to social conquests aimed at regulating the relationship between the employee and the employer. The charters are intended to circumvent the law and to give a blank to what is called "work at work", which is not acceptable. We are being sold the idea that self-employment would ensure the worker's freedom. Rather, freedom is found in the text just adopted by California, which allows self-employed workers who are in a bond of subordination to be re-qualified as employees, if they so request. This is true freedom for these workers. If they resemble the workers described to us by Aurélien Taché and attached to a freedom which is rather a complete dependence on a platform, they are free to retain their status; If they prefer to enter into a correct employment relationship, they must be able to request the requalification of their contract. Clearly, you are trying to find a new way to precarise workers. We certainly have opposite visions of the market, but with this article, we reach the end of your logic: thanks to the charters drawn up by the employers that will remove from the workers any possibility to request the requalification of their contract, the platforms, it will be Germinal 2.0.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u520	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u521	I support the words of our colleague Hubert Wulfranc. It can be seen that several European Union courts, including, in France, the Court of Cassation, have recently ruled for the requalification as employees of certain "sub-employed" workers. In addition, in recent months, many collectives of drivers and delivery agents have been mobilised across Europe to demand better working and pay conditions. We would therefore give a strong signal by adopting our colleague's amendment. While Article 20 provides for measures to ensure greater transparency in the relationship between the platform and workers, which is a good thing, will these measures ensure a decent level of remuneration for workers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u522	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u523	I don't think so. Will these measures allow workers to take leave or work at reasonable times?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u524	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u525	I don't think so anymore. From these answers comes the interest of Mr Wulfranc's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u526	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u527	It must be humble to see that mobility platforms explore new fields of the economy and create employment in sectors that have historically been less affected by wage-earning. The social protection model for this sector is gradually being constructed: there has been a step with the Labour Law of 8 August 2016, concerning accidents at work and vocational training. Today, in addition to the issue of charters, you find in the text, enshrined in the hard of the law, measures of public policy relating, for example, to the right to disconnect, to the prior knowledge of the price of a race and to the right to refuse a race by the worker. I am going to be short, so that everyone can go to their tastes, but I would point out that the judge will obviously be able to requalify the contract if legal subordination is established: the conditions of the common law will apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u528	The charter will prevent that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u529	The charter will be approved and will have legal force, once the administrative authority has been seized by the platform, and there will be no requalification on the basis of the charter thus validated, but the judge will be able to completely requalify the relationship into an employment contract if he considers that the legal subordination is established.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u530	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u531	Yes! I assure you that there is no doubt about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u532	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-11-E2003.u533	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, on further reading, of the mobility guidance bill. The meeting is adjourned.
