ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u1	The next item is the discussion at second reading, under the simplified examination procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the draft law in favour of associative involvement (No 1757, 1884).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u2	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call for the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u3	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 7 and 10, aimed at re-establishing Article 4 deleted by the committee. I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u4	Article 4, introduced by the Senate, was deleted in committee. In contrast to Articles 1b and 1c, which have suffered the same fate and which call into question the very concept of volunteering, this article nevertheless seems to me worthy of interest. Associations have been weakened by the drastic reduction in assisted employment, by the abolition of the parliamentary reserve and by the massive drop in allocations to communities, the corollary of which is an unprecedented reduction in subsidies to associations. Amendment No 7 would increase the capacity of associations to act by employing trainees. It is not a question of pushing for the abusive employment of trainees, whose precariousness we know, but of exempting the associations from the legal limitations resulting from the decree of 26 October 2015. This would only apply to internships of less than two months' duration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u5	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u6	I'll go in the same direction as Mr. Reiss. The associations have been greatly weakened – we see it every day in the general assemblies. I don't think that's your wish. The associations are facing great difficulties because of the end of the aided contracts, and also, I never miss an opportunity to remind them, because the sports federations are putting more and more constraints on them, especially in terms of training. It would be a shame not to allow them to recruit additional interns, because it does not cost much. In addition, the bill aims to encourage young people to take an interest in associations, which is certainly possible through internships. Article 4, introduced by the Senate, was therefore very interesting. I wish he was restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u8	Mrs Sophie Mette, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on these two identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u9	On my proposal, the committee adopted an amendment to delete this article. The risks associated with the multiplication of short internships, which are not subject to a gratuity, are those of substitution for employment, a reduction in the supply of long internships and a tension on the resource of tutors within the association, thus calling into question the training dimension of the internship. Indeed, some employers' associations could use the measure to offer ungratified internships, as less than two months, and to replace, voluntarily or not, real jobs for these internships. I too want to defend associations and volunteers!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u10	That's not how you'll support them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u11	In addition, a significant increase in the number of trainees accommodated simultaneously within the same structure is likely to pose difficulties in the quality of their supervision. The training of more trainees by a single tutor will suffer, and the pedagogical value of the internship will be reduced accordingly. In addition, you want to offer internships of less than two months, while the majority of internships included in higher education curricula are longer: students required to complete internships of more than two months would therefore have fewer opportunities to carry out these internships in associations. Finally, the proposed scheme addresses only a limited number of associations: in fact, only 8.2% of the 1.8 million French associations – the employing associations – are targeted. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u12	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth gave the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u13	In addition to the arguments put forward by the rapporteur, to which I fully agree, I hear the two concerns that you raise: you want to give more support to associations, in a very concrete way, and encourage young people to take an interest in associations by linking them with them. I do not think that the mechanism you are proposing will make it possible to achieve this. The community movement has worked for many months on a report published last June, of which I am sure you have come to know. It details the measures it wishes to adopt in favour of associations; However, he did not ask for this measure relating to traineeships, which does not appear anywhere. In my discussions, both with the voluntary movement and with the associations on the ground, no one talks to me about this relaxation for internships. The rapporteur put forward a number of arguments relating to the associations concerned. Beyond this, the internship must have a pedagogical value and therefore a quality supervision. I understand your willingness to provide more resources to associations, which is why we have adopted a number of measures, notably on the employment of associations, by creating 4000 FONJEP posts – the Youth and People's Education Cooperation Fund – or by promoting employers' groups to enable associations to recruit their first employees. That is why we also want to make young people discover associations: this is the subject of the universal national service. These many measures contribute to the objectives you pursue, unlike the one you propose. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u14	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u15	The Secretary of State defends the universal national service very well! For my part, I think the best is sometimes the enemy of good. We had the opportunity to send a signal to the associations. It is not a question of allowing undue recourse to trainees, but of giving associations greater opportunities for action. It is above all a matter of trust in the leaders of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u17	I have before me an amendment No 6 to re-establish Article 5 which has been deleted by the committee. Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u18	Article 5, also introduced by the Senate, was deleted in committee. Again, I want to recall the context and some figures. The year 2018 saw a drop in donations from individuals to associations and foundations – minus 16% for the Ligue contre le cancer, minus 11% for the Institut Pasteur, minus 19% for the Apprentis d'Auteuil. It is not a question of analysing the causes of this trend, but of clarifying the general interest of an association and thus reassuring donors. This article would be a step forward, according to the High Council for Association Life, which notes that the too strict interpretation of the tax administration to recognize the general interest of an association is detrimental. The following provision is therefore proposed: "Where the representative of the State in the department has admitted the general interest of the association, that status shall be recognized, for a period fixed by decree, in the light of all the laws and regulations applicable to regularly declared associations. A decree in the Council of State shall determine the conditions for the application of this article. This provision would apply both to associations law 1901 and to associations law 1908 under local law in Alsace and Moselle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u19	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u20	The committee adopted an amendment to delete Article 5, which was intended to create a single rescript issued to associations wishing to ensure that they were of general interest. As I have already explained in committee, the creation of this procedure would have consequences for the territorial organisation of the State. On the one hand, only the tax administration is subject to rules of confidentiality inherent in the operations of control, recovery or litigation of national taxes, to which all the agents familiar with this new rescript procedure should be subject. On the other hand, this would considerably increase the work of deconcentrated services, in particular to deal with all existing associations which should be subject to this procedure. On the other hand, this procedure is particularly burdensome for associations, whereas in tax matters, whether for commercial taxes, donations or sponsorship, non-profit organisations may already consider themselves eligible. The tax administration has the possibility to put an end to this presumption of general interest and non-lucrativity in the event of a check or a request for rescript. The current system is therefore simpler, both for the organizations and for the administration. Finally, the current system, as it accepts a presumption of the general interest of associations, is a guarantee of the associative freedom to act. The establishment of a procedure as set out in Article 5 would require all existing or future associations to apply to the administration for recognition of public interest. This would create an additional burden for associations in terms of the pre-trial procedures they must submit to make calls for generosity from the public and thus diversify their financial resources. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u21	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before me by the Republic on the move and by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 6?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u22	I agree, Mr Reiss, that this time you are raising a concern for associations: facilitating and simplifying access to the tax rescript. This is indeed a subject that the community movement has raised in the report which I have just mentioned and on which we are working. However, as the rapporteur has explained very well, the proposed mechanism does not convince us. It would probably have the effect of increasing the procedures for associations, which can already benefit, on their own initiative, from tax deductions for the donations they receive. In its report, the association movement called for the establishment of a working group bringing together Bercy's departments, those of the ministry in charge of associative life and representatives of the association movement. We agreed to this request and the working group began to meet. We will try to move forward quickly on this issue. As the proposed arrangement does not seem satisfactory at this stage, I give an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u23	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u24	I understand the explanations of the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, but I think that proximity is also very important for associations. The appointment of a single interlocutor in the territories, following the prefect's model with regard to the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, of which we have recently examined the creation project, would be interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u25	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u26	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u27	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 52 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u28	The next item is the discussion at second reading, under the simplified procedure under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal for a law on the protection of land for agricultural activities and marine crops in coastal areas (No. 1758, 1914).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u29	As this text has not been amended, I shall put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. On the whole of the bill, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I therefore put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u30	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 53 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 53 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u31	The next item is the discussion at second reading, under the simplified procedure under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal for a law to encourage the recognition of caregivers (No 1764, 1911).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u32	As no amendments have been made to this text, I shall put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u33	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM, UDI-Agir and LT groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] I thank our colleagues in all the groups for agreeing to examine these three texts under the simplified procedure. If any group chairman had refused this procedure, we would not have been able to apply it. We have just shown that Parliament can legislate in a consensual and effective manner, whether for the protection of marine and coastal cultures, on the initiative of Jimmy Pahun, or for the recognition of the close caregivers, at the end of the considerable work of Nathalie Elimas – this bill had been tabled by the IUD Group, Act and Independents, the rapporteur at first reading being Paul Christophe, whom you can applaud. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] It is a good parliamentary work, since it was also the agreement of the Senate that allowed us to give these pieces of legislation the force of law. I would like to thank you, on behalf of the MODEM Group, for all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u35	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Richard Ramos and others on pre-teaching (No. 1526 corrected, 1915).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u36	Mr Richard Ramos, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u37	Excellent rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u38	I am proud to defend today before you the bill on pre-signs, co-signed by a large number of our colleagues sitting on different benches, such as Sébastien Jumel, Isabelle Rauch, Thierry Benoit, Richard Lioger, Marianne Dubois, Jean-Yves Bony and Vincent Descoeur – I cannot quote them all. Again, it is the national common sense, this piece of France that each of us represents, which asserts the right and the right. In recent months, rural malaise has been updated. Today, through this bill, we must modestly bring a small stone to a response that will obviously have to be more comprehensive. Foreword, I would like to say two things about the origin of this text. We had already discussed this issue during the review of the Housing, Development and Digital Development Act, the ELAN Act. Many of us had already defended an amendment adopted in open session by all the political groups, which had also won the almost unanimous support of the Senate. That is to say, French bicameralism had worked. [[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] In order to best inform the legislator's decision, and on the proposal of the MODEM Group, the President of the National Assembly referred the text to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. In doing so, I wanted to allow us to discuss with this body a complex subject that balances economics and environmentals. I also wanted to check that this institution is rooted in the reality of the territories, as are all Members, who represent a piece of France. Let's get to the bottom. As I said, this bill restores the right, but even more so the right one. There is no sustainable development if it is not sustainable. Rurality is not only a holiday space for metropolitan bobos or decentralized technocrats. Rurality is a place of life where one is born, where one works, where one ages. Pre-signs are standard billboards that indicate, in the city or on the roads, the proximity of an activity, of a life. The legal regime of these pre-brands is part of the broader framework of the rules on advertising. The general principle is the authorisation of advertisements in agglomeration and their prohibition outside. By way of derogation from this rule, the installation of pre-signs is permitted in a number of cases outside the agglomeration. The derogations, provided for by the legislator as early as 1979, were initially very broad since they were valid for all pre-signs indicating activities which could be useful for travellers. In practice, pre-signs have multiplied to include cultural activities, historical monuments, restaurants, hotels, gas stations, artisans and other small businesses. Since 13 July 2015, the date of entry into force of the new derogation regime voted under the Act of 12 July 2010 establishing a national commitment for the environment, known as the "Grenelle 2 law", the framework has been considerably tightened. Pre-signs are only allowed in the following cases: cultural activities, listed or registered historical monuments, activities related to the manufacture or sale of local products. In practice, this new system has proved to be excessive and totally inadequate for restorers. The advocates of this regulation thought that pre-brands would gradually be replaced by the Internet and local information signage – SIL – a device that we know well. On these two points, it must be noted that the legislator has made a mistake. First, digital uses cannot be presented as a credible alternative, while white areas are still numerous in rural areas and only 65% of the territory is now covered by 4G. A grey area also does not allow optimal navigation. This means that in rural areas, we must not look at national averages but at the digital reality of the land, meter by meter. As for local information signage, it does not fulfil the role played in the past by pre-signs. All professionals criticize his lack of visibility and readability: the characters are too small to be read on a departmental road. The effects of the removal of pre-signs were therefore largely underestimated. This has only reinforced the unease of our rural restaurateurs, a malaise that is very similar to that experienced by our farmers. Many restaurateurs have contacted us, the parliamentarians, on all these benches, to inform us of their distress. Some of them tried the unthinkable after receiving this famous letter from the prefect, for them inadmissible. We went to meet them at the hospital to support them. Others received a judicial summons, as if they were criminals, because they refused to apply a law that they perceived as unfair and simply undermined their life course, the lives of their families, their children. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] The bistros of the village or the village shape our collective imagination, but they are mainly places where the reality of everyday life is expressed. Nearly half of the rural restaurants have already disappeared in the space of a few decades. Let us not be mistaken: if we do not act, this slow and inexorable disappearance of the rural restoration will continue, village after village. A restaurant that closes in the countryside, it is an economy that is extinguished, while a restaurant that closes in a metropolis, it is another that opens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u39	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u40	In this difficult context, the removal of pre-brands increases the malaise of the profession. It has made it invisible on the roads many restaurateurs to whom the turnover brought by the passing customers often allowed to maintain their activity. Some restaurants have lost between 5% and 45% of their turnover. Those who do not comply with the new rules are subject to fines in the order of EUR 200 per day. [[Mrs. Justine Benin applauds]] We parliamentarians meet these restaurateurs and measure the extent of their distress. While they are already on the ground, the prohibition of pre-signs often brings them the blow of grace. Let me not be told about an umpteenth Theodule commission that would study in detail the turnover of each. Open your eyes! Go to meet the humblest! Prefer the discomfort of the action to the comfort of thought in a Parisian bunker! The territorial divide is growing. The image of the winning metropolises in the face of losing rural territories undermines our social pact and parliamentary representation. I repeat this in time and on the other hand: this legal regime gives the impression of a disconnect between political decision-making at the national level and the realities on the ground. Decision-making is seen as above ground and technocratic, which feeds the growing feeling of mistrust of the administration towards a part – only part – of the high administration and some so-called representative bodies. These evils are at the heart of the social movements that have been going through our country for several months. At a time when we must draw the conclusions of the great national debate, we cannot remain insensitive to appeals from the ground. Some rightly fear that this text will distort our living environment. I would like to stress one thing: of course we all have at heart the preservation of our rural landscapes! Let us, however, guard against a binary vision of rurality that would oppose the preservation of landscapes and the support of economic activity. The legislator has favoured the economy over ecology in large cities by allowing the installation of 12 square meters of visuals, and rurality should once again be the variable of ecological adjustment? No, no and no! There's no point in being beautiful when you're no longer alive! Let us guard against this aseptic and frozen approach to rural life! Our campaigns, where we are proud to live, are beautiful and alive! This is what makes them attractive, both for the inhabitants and for the tourists. The President of the Republic pleads for active, lively rural life. Let us give our President the means to make this will live! In seeking the right balance between the preservation of landscapes and serious advertising, we must limit ourselves to rural restaurateurs, to whom pre-brands are the most useful because they allow travellers, whether tourists or transit workers, to find a place to eat. We can reasonably rule out the risk of "forests" from pre signs, since the installation of pre signs remains strictly regulated by the regulations with regard to the rules of size, distance and number. The pre-sign, it is not the tree that hides the forest but the small sign that indicates a place of life and economy. Apart from these fears, this bill offers us the opportunity to provide strong support to the rural world. In MODEM as in all political parties, this fight to promote fairer territorial balances is dear to us. Our project, as we have been defending it for many years, is aimed at the success of France's territories. The Minister of Territorial Cohesion and Relations, Jacqueline Gourault, announced the launch of a new rural agenda. Let us consider that this small bill lays a very small stone for this construction site of tomorrow! Where the standard is not adapted, it is up to us to change it. We are living in a time when it is necessary to re-establish the sometimes broken links between daily difficulties in the territories and national public decision-making. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM groups and on several benches of the LaREM, LR, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] For the sustainability of rural restoration and for rural life in its entirety, I invite you, Members of Parliament, pieces of France and terroirs, to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u41	King Richard of rurality!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u42	Big Ramos!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u43	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u44	As part of its own-initiative parliamentary day, the MODEM Group wished to include on the agenda of your Assembly a proposal for a law on pre-signs tabled by Mr Richard Ramos and co-signed by more than 100 Members of Parliament from different groups of the majority and the opposition, reflecting the broad support for this initiative. The sole purpose of the text we are discussing today is therefore to re-establish the provisions of article 161 of the ELAN Act, which was censored by the Constitutional Council on the grounds that it was a legislative horseman. I will not go back to the history of the legislation relating to advertising, signs and pre-signs. Nor will I go back to the profound changes to which they have been subjected, rightly, in the context of the Grenelle 2 Act. These provisions were very timely in order to combat the visual pollution and denaturation of our landscapes which, in many territories, resulted from the proliferation of pre-signs indicating the presence of a multitude of establishments and economic activities, in particular those which were described as "useful activities for people on the move". From this point of view, it is undeniable that the new restrictions imposed by the Grenelle 2 law on the establishment of pre-brands have had a powerful effect on the protection of our landscapes since their entry into force on 13 July 2015. Where there was an anarchic crowd of signs pointing to shops, restaurants, cultural activities or garages, for example, we recaptured our city entrances and disfigured rural areas. At this stage of the discussion, let me make it clear that, as part of my political commitment, both as a parliamentarian and as a local elected representative, I have always been committed to working for the protection of landscapes. This deep conviction, which I put into practice when I was mayor, obviously continues to animate me as Minister for Territorial Cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u45	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u46	Of course, the Minister for the Cohesion of the Territories and, more broadly, the Government heard the concern expressed in that text. I hear the difficulties of the rural territories that you speak for. I hear, Mr rapporteur, the dismay of the restaurateurs in the face of a decline in their turnover, which would be linked to the reduction in the number of occasional or passing customers since the notification of the presence of their establishment by means of a pre-teaching programme is forbidden to them. Although it would seem useful to me to assess precisely the economic effects strictly linked to this ban which has been in force for almost four years, in particular because other factors have certainly played a role in the crisis in rural restaurants, I have no doubt that the disappearance of pre-brands has had a real effect. Beyond the restaurateurs, the Government was particularly sensitive to the question of the economic vitality of the territories and rural areas. That is why, in line with the guidelines drawn up by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister – the rapporteur has just recalled – the Government is working on a rural agenda, that is, on the preparation of measures to support our rural territories. This rural agenda, which will benefit in particular from the conclusions of a working group composed of elected representatives, particularly local ones, which I have set up and which is expected to give me the result of its work at the beginning of next month, will also provide the Government with an opportunity to present specific measures to support local businesses, including, of course, restaurants, as well as a comprehensive action plan to support small centralities in the city centres, as I have already committed myself to before your House. Should we then re-establish, as Parliament had agreed to do under the ELAN law, the possibility for restaurants to report by pre-brands? First of all, I note that your Committee on Economic Affairs, on the proposal of its rapporteur, has adopted a position of principle: not to extend this option to activities other than those of restaurants. I can only congratulate myself on this because it is not a question of returning closely or by far to the situation which prevailed before the entry into force of the law on national commitment to the environment. I also note, and I would also like to welcome this, that your committee has expressed a strong concern for quality restoration, which echoes the debates that you had at the public sitting last June during the examination of the amendment tabled by Mr Ramos and adopted by the two parliamentary assemblies. In fact, if a new exception is to be introduced into our law in order to allow the establishment of derogatory pre-signs, it must be drafted in terms which make it possible to benefit first and foremost restaurants meeting quality standards, restaurants which give life to rural life. Finding a definition, a criterion, which is legally sound enough not to be censored under the principle of equality but which is also easily applicable is surely not an easy exercise. From this point of view, I note that you yourself have expressed doubts as to the operational nature of the provisions adopted in committee which limit these faculties of derogatory pre-signs to restaurants only "which meet traditional know-how and whose majority of the dishes offered to the clientele have the mention "made homemade". Indeed, these criteria are difficult to apply, whether it is the concept of "traditional know-how", which does not meet any legal definition, or the requirement to have a majority of "home-made" dishes on the map, this criterion seems very difficult to control, in particular due to the regular updating by the restaurant owners of the dishes offered to the clientele. In these circumstances, while the Government can only share the philosophy behind the search for a criterion that strictly tightens the possibility of derogatory pre-teaching, it is naturally sensitive to the legibility of the law and to the need to define an applicable and operational mechanism. In this respect, the new wording proposed by two identical amendments tabled by the rapporteur and the La République en marche group, which envisage limiting the faculties of derogatory pre-teaching to restaurants offering "home-made" dishes, seems likely to meet these requirements and therefore seems to me to be more satisfactory. If your assembly today decides to re-establish this new option of derogatory pre-teaching for restaurants – which I have no doubt – this will be done under the current regulatory conditions for activities that already benefit from the possibility to report by pre-teaching. These pre-signs may be installed not more than five kilometres from the entrance of the agglomeration, within the meaning of INSEE, or from the place where the activity they report is carried out. Their dimensions may not exceed 1 metre in height and 1.50 metres in width, which is not nothing. The maximum height, including panel, shall not exceed 2.20 metres above the ground. Each restaurant that can benefit from this new derogation will have the right to install, at most, only two pre-brands. I would also like to point out that under the general provisions on advertising laid down in the Environmental Code, any form of pre-sign is prohibited in remarkable sites, i.e. on natural monuments and in classified sites, as well as in the hearts of national parks and nature reserves. More generally, the Government, in the context of the deepening of the decentralization desired by the President of the Republic, believes that such measures would benefit from being taken as close to the ground as possible, in accordance with the lessons learned from the great national debate. I hear, Mr rapporteur, your wish for a speedy adoption of this text in order to respond as quickly as possible to the strong expectations of the restaurateurs and, more generally, of the inhabitants of these rural areas who are suffering from the economic difficulties that these companies are experiencing. However, the Government believes that this debate should lead us to question the relevant level of decision-making in this area. It is a pity that we have not been able to do so in the context of this text. Just as urban planning law is a very decentralized right, as you are all aware, the Government considers that decisions to set up derogatory pre-signs should be referred to the communes or intercommunalities, within the framework of local advertising regulations, be they communal or intercommunal. Local elected representatives seem to be in the best position to know where restaurants are located, whose dynamism depends on this clientele, and in which sectors the establishment of such pre-brands could have a beneficial effect on their business. Such a reflection should lead us to question again the general architecture of the provisions relating to local advertising regulations, whose development movement is still insufficient and which are now likely to cover only the communities competent for local urban planning – PLU. However, the municipalities which are subject to the national urban planning regulations – the NU – or which are covered by a communal map also have restaurants located in their territory which might find it advantageous to point out themselves by a pre-brand – these are surely the ones you are aiming for as a priority. As long as we wish to refer local advertising regulations to the implementing powers of derogatory pre-signs, a solution should be found for those communities that are not competent in the field of LRP. My reflection here is worth a closer look. Finally, this text is based on a bet, that of trusting the restaurateurs themselves, who must demonstrate their ability to self-regulate by choosing for their pre-teaching places that reconcile the attractiveness of their restaurant and the preservation of landscapes. In this area as in everything else, it is the excesses that force the legislator to intervene. I am among those who think that it is not because we live in the countryside that we must not have quality, including in the displays.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u47	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u48	Defending rural life also means defending quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u50	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is, ladies and gentlemen, the state of mind in which the Government is considering this bill. The Government, concerned about the protection of our landscapes, reiterates its concern that this text does not become a challenge to the principles adopted by the legislator in favour of the Grenelle de l'Environnement, but it understands the legitimate concern of the rural territories and the companies that contribute to their dynamism. It is in the light of this requirement of balance that the Government accepts the re-establishment of a mechanism close to article 161 of the ELAN Act, on the strict condition that it does not extend its scope beyond the original purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u51	In the general debate, Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u52	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is committed to the defence of our rural territories, as our excellent colleague Richard Ramos has just demonstrated and as he applies every moment to defend territories, know-how and culinary art in general. Beyond the simple readmission of pre-branded restaurants near the city centres, the single article of this bill aims above all to revitalize these territories in order to put them in a territorial management that is fairer, more humane and that values our terroirs and our traditions. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this bill also aims to preserve, through the establishment of fair conditions for restaurants in our rural areas, a certain part of our culinary tradition. These objectives probably explain the unanimity of this bill on the benches of our assembly, like the same provision that was made under the ELAN Act. I would also like to commend the high-quality work done by the rapporteurs of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. Aware of the importance of giving our fellow citizens a greater place in our democracy, the MODEM Group decided to innovate by proposing the referral of this text to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. In its opinion, this institution has demonstrated, like the MODEM Group, that it is committed both to defending the attractiveness of our rural territories and to protecting their landscapes. In this respect, a balance must necessarily be found in the context of this common reflection. Let me therefore turn to certain points which justify the validity of this text. In an effort to combat visual pollution caused by pre-brands located in the vicinity of cities, the Grenelle 2 Act has abolished the possibility of installing pre-brands allowing, in particular, to identify local restaurants and previously authorized for activities useful to people on the move. Thus, since 13 July 2015, these pre-signs, which had previously been subject to a derogation, have been banned outside of agglomeration and in agglomerations with a population of less than 10000. While this ban pursues an important objective of preserving our rural landscapes, it is still unbalanced by other imperatives. Indeed, the impossibility of being identified by passing drivers has serious economic consequences for restaurants located in cities with less than 10000 inhabitants. Some estimates indicate a loss of turnover of around 25%, sometimes as high as 45% for these establishments, which were already facing economic difficulties. I repeat, there is no question here of adopting a binary reasoning, in which we would give priority to the economic attractiveness of our territories over the preservation of their landscapes, but of adopting a balance that would ensure greater equity between the restaurateurs of the big cities and those of the less populated territories. This is a question of sticking to a fairer balance between the general interest and better territorial management. This balance was fully observed in the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs. In particular, the latter limited the readmission of these pre-brands to restaurants offering a culinary preparation meeting a local and traditional quality requirement. Amendments will be tabled to define "homemade" in a very precise way. We can only welcome this clarification, which perfectly responds to the balance I mentioned earlier. While readmission of pre-brands for local restaurants in out-of-town areas is not the only way to revitalize rural areas, it is nevertheless necessary in view of the state of play of other solutions that might be proposed. The local information-signalling system is in fact ill-suited to the objective pursued by this text. Moreover, despite the ambition shown in this sector, digital coverage is still lacking in some of our territories, which still do not have access to high-speed broadband or high-quality network coverage. These solutions, which it will be necessary to implement in the future, cannot, at present, suffice to revitalize the catering sector in our rural territories; Moreover, they can only be complementary solutions, which are necessary but not sufficient in themselves. Finally, I should like to point out that this bill would only realign this system of signage with that of the activities of manufacture or sale of local products, for which the establishments are allowed to use derogatory pre-signs to indicate themselves. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The MODEM Group has always been particularly sensitive to the defence of the assets of our rural territories in order to give them the means to develop. As you may know, I reiterate our group's support for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u53	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u54	The MODEM Group wanted to put on the agenda of its own-initiative parliamentary day a proposal for a law by our colleague Richard Ramos on pre-teaching. Since 13 July 2015 and in accordance with a provision of the Grenelle 2 law, pre-signs derogatory installed at the entrance to city centres and city centres have been largely prohibited to limit visual pollution. Only pre-brands that report activities related to the manufacture or sale of local products by local companies, cultural activities and historical monuments, classified or registered, are allowed to visit. Since then, the Union des métiers et des industries de l'hôtelière – UMIH – and the Association des mayores rurales de France – AMRF – have regularly requested that these pre-brands be allowed again for cafes, hotels and restaurants located in rural areas, notably through the campaign "To display is to exist". They point to an average loss of turnover of 25 % for institutions that have lost the benefit of this derogation since 2015. During the debate on the ELAN bill, our rapporteur, Richard Ramos, had passed an amendment to reauthorize these pre-brands for all restaurants serving local products. This definitively adopted amendment, now article 161 of the Act, was censored by the Constitutional Council on the grounds that it was a legislative rider. You therefore wish, Mr rapporteur, to reintroduce this provision by this bill, the only article of which is the same as your amendment under the ELAN Act. I salute your work. But for the Socialist and related group, your proposal poses a real method problem. In fact, the majority regularly reminds us that, during this legislature, it applies a new method of studying the impact of existing laws prior to any legislative amendment. For example, the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Lescure, had indicated that no proposal on Sunday work would be accepted in the law on business growth and transformation – the PACTE law – pending the completion of a comprehensive review of the provisions adopted in the Macron law. We had the opportunity to say quite regularly that, on this and other matters, it was a good method. We are therefore surprised by this bill, which has not benefited from any impact assessment or comprehensive stocktaking. A fact-finding mission, or a flash mission, would have been desirable prior to the submission of this text. Before this, you have heard, Mr rapporteur, only the UMIH and the association of the rural mayors of your department, which, admittedly, is quite restrictive and does not seem sufficient to us. This leaves little room for debate of ideas! What about environmental associations, citizens' associations and administrations? We are not alone in regretting this lack of a prior impact assessment. In an opinion delivered on 24 April, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council made the same analysis, and recalled it to our committee. He is against your proposal, although he agrees with us that the attractiveness of rural areas is a major challenge that needs to be addressed. The dynamism of restaurants contributes greatly to this attractiveness, which is not limited to this sector of activity. Greater visibility of economic actors in rural areas must therefore be sought. While you wish to challenge the provisions of the Grenelle 2 law on visual pollution, it is not desirable, at this stage, to address this issue by the only angle of the restaurants offering local products. The problem of the ban on pre-branding at the entrance to rural communes concerns, beyond restaurants alone, a variety of businesses in the field of the local economy, as I pointed out in committee – I am thinking of grocery stores, hotels, bakeries, farms and crafts. If the bill were adopted by Parliament, the pressure to extend it to other types of activities in rural areas would be strong and inevitable. If there is to be a reflection on this ban and its impact, it must therefore be global and not fragmented. In saying all this, Mr rapporteur, believe that we are not denigrating this subject, which is real and important, nor your commitment. But when the majority decides on a method and imposes it on the oppositions in the legislative work, it is natural for us to expect it to stick to it as well. This does not remove the difficulties faced by our artisans and traders in our rural areas. We all know, in our ridings, many examples, and not just in the restoration, which motivate your approach, which I believe to be sincere. We should work together to find concrete solutions, based on more in-depth and broader analyses. It should also be noted that the extinct management of FISAC – the intervention fund for the protection of crafts and commerce – voted by your majority is not in the right direction and is not consistent with your willingness to support economic actors in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u56	Madam Minister, rapporteur, we have not tabled a motion for referral to committee, on the basis of a principle that we have been faithful to since the beginning of the parliamentary term with regard to the texts tabled on private Members' days, but we believe that there is a serious problem of methodology because it would have agreed, at least, to carry out an impact assessment. As it stands, pending this study, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u57	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u58	The excellent Thierry Benoit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u59	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Our group, on the other hand, will enthusiastically support this bill. Let's not be shy! The parliamentary initiative of the MODEM Group – a centrist group – coincides with European Day. [[Smile]] I welcome this parliamentary initiative, which allows us to address Members, of course, but also our fellow citizens. Richard Ramos has only been a parliamentarian for two years, but he is tenacious. Not having been able to obtain satisfaction with the pre-signs by way of amendment, since the measure, enshrined in the ELAN law, was censored by the Constitutional Council which considered him a rider, Richard Ramos returns by the big door, that of the bill, which will give even more force to this provision! I complained to Yannick Favennec Becot about turning around on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u60	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u61	About ten years ago, in the name of environmental protection and the fight against visual pollution, we reduced, by the Grenelle 2 law, the field of publication of signs and pre-signs. This measure has also borne fruit, as the situation has improved in rural areas, in small cantonal towns and in medium-sized towns like the one I live in. I think of Fougères and its periphery, its pretty castle, the Marches de Bretagne. These cities have a better look when you put a little order into them. However, the case of pre-brands relating to catering activity in cities with less than 10000 inhabitants that are not part of an urban area with more than 100,000 inhabitants is special. It concerns these medium-sized towns in rural territories of which we, together with Gilles Lurton, are the worthy representatives. The issue is all the more serious because these restoration activities are carried out by independent contractors, who are not assisted. A few months ago, we referred to the social system of the self-employed, the RSI, which we wanted to support under the general social security system. However, when self-employed people face family, health or economic problems, they find themselves almost alone, unfortunately still today, in 2019, in our country. [[Smile]] The adoption of this bill would be a gesture in favour of independent entrepreneurs, and not just any one: we would help the restaurateurs who cook local products, those who love gastronomy, culinary art. They also present a common point with Richard Ramos, whose rejoicing mine bears witness to his commitment to the excellence of our gastronomy. Our group therefore supports this bill because, alas, the problem of mobile digital technology is not solved throughout the country. So, a month ago, I wanted to have lunch in a rural restaurant, with my collaborators, but I couldn't find his phone number because of a network! We had to sign up for lunch in a big city. As long as this problem persists, the subject of pre-teaching will remain relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u62	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u63	[[Smile]] If Aboriginal people, the people of the country, do not need pre-teaching to know about quality restaurants, this is not the case for tourists or commercials. Pre-brands are useful for those who are not in the country but want to have lunch in quality restaurants. They take the secondary roads, dear to Jean Yanne, whose famous sketch of the driver's license is engraved in our memories. They are not looking for a restaurant where frozen fries are cooked and a piece of meat is presented between two slices of brioche, but a real restaurant. In this sense, there is an undeniable interest in this bill. You have stated, Madam Minister, that it would be appropriate to leave it to the local level to implement the regulation of signs and signals for pre-signs. You're right. A few years ago, it was decided to transfer to the local level the instruction of land law authorizations, which was previously provided by the State, more specifically by the departmental directorates of the territories – or, in the coastal departments, by the departmental directorate of the territories and the sea, as Bruno Joncour knows very well. Intercommunalities, which exercise economic competence, could very well, within the framework of the SCOT – the scheme of territorial coherence – seize this subject. Let us not forget that this is, in concrete terms, a 1.20 metre wide panel by 1 metre high. He's not a monster! We welcomed the benefits of the Grenelle 2 law in medium-sized cities and rural areas, but the situation may be different in large cities or megacities. If urban planning is preserved in some cities like Saint-Malo, is it not, Mr. Lurton? – very often, alas, it has been conceived in such a way, for forty years, that we encounter today, at the entrance of the big cities, areas of commercial activity which gather large hangars, of very medium urban quality, polluted by signs and light at night.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u64	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u65	Visual pollution affects not only humans, but also wildlife. At a time when we are concerned about the protection of the environment and biodiversity, we should take up this issue. For example, some mayors decided to cut public lighting between midnight and five in the morning. That's great! We must encourage these initiatives and mobilize around the topic of light signaling in large agglomerations. I would like once again to congratulate MP Richard Ramos on this parliamentary initiative. We are at the heart of our business. The IUD, Action and Independent Group will strongly support this excellent bill. Madam Minister, you slowed down the momentum of the rapporteur, who told you that he was in a hurry. Tomorrow, we will discuss a text drafted in an emergency following the fire of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. So we are able to act urgently! While mayors and individuals who reside in areas of protection of architectural, urban and landscape heritage – the famous ZPPAUP – are subject to very strict regulations, you can see that it is possible to loosen the regulatory carcan to quickly rebuild Notre-Dame de Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u66	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] I hope that this bill will be adopted with the votes of all the groups present and that it will be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u68	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u69	The rapporteur, Richard, I saw us as the Don Quixote and Sancho Panza of the Chamber, champions of the lost causes against the windmills of the agro-food industry, Bigard's hidden accounts, Lactalis's trundles, crossing our two battles: you as a gourmet, whose roundness illustrates the blow of fork, against the industrialised, lyophilized, asepticated junk food, and me, more banalally, against the Injustice with a capital. Everything for the giants, nothing for the peasants, the workers, the damned frozen dishes! With you as the rapporteur, I expected a dream, legislative adventures, a parliamentary epic. We're like this, aren't we? This world, here below, is not enough for us: we need one beyond, one hope. I was hoping. I was hoping in you, companion of dreams, heart to the left and fidelity to the center. I was hoping for a crusade against McDonald's and its subsidiaries in Luxembourg, Switzerland or the Deleware, which pay only €16 million in taxes for 3.7 billion profits, i.e. a tax rate of 0.5%, while the restaurateurs in our towns, which you care about, pay fifty times more and that the employees of this large group are deprived of their profit premiums since everything is part of the Deleware! We would have drawn our spears, side by side, to the assault of McDonald's! [[Smiles and exclamations on several MODEM benches]] Now, what do I see happening on my desk, dear Sancho? A proposal for a law on pre-teaching. Misery of realism! Pragmatism misery! I'm turning my head and you're back to being a moderate of MODEM! As if there were not enough, in our society, in our assembly, reasonable minds!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u70	Don't you ever be reasonable?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u71	The worst part is that your text is likely to pass. Either, go for the pre-teachers. This reminds me of a boy from my home, Pierre, who, from Paris, had decided to install a pizza kiosk in Flixecourt. My team had managed his water or electricity problems. I didn't really care about it, but I visited her to taste a nine-cheese pizza. He stood away from the main street, rue de Ville-le-Marclet, in the parking lot of Speedwash – you could not fall on it by chance. I asked him why he didn't put a sign on the street passerby. He replied that he was waiting for permission from the town hall and then from the community of communes. He eventually got a tolerance. Then I thought about it. You may be right, Richard: there may be a class ad. It is possible that the advertising of cities, multinationals, rich people, is accepted and even encouraged, although it is broadcast on giant screens, consuming electricity and causing visual pollution, while the Grenelle de l'environnement has banned the advertising of fields, free of charge, that of the local artisan. Maybe, in fact, it's not fair. However, the risk is great to open Pandora's box to all franchises and subsidiaries. "Homemade" is a blurred concept that does not guarantee anything since it is not a label. All Buffalo Grills will rush into the breach. In fact, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council unanimously voted against this measure. I expect discussions to give me the guarantee that the subsidiaries will not benefit from the situation because, for the time being, the "homemade" does not seem sufficient. I'd rather rally you to a crusade for the beautiful, which may be a lost cause, but there are beautiful lost causes. The fight against the Publicis and JCDecaux panels would reduce advertising, this ugliness of society, in our cities and in our brains. Is it normal to tolerate, at the entrance of our cities, all these shoe boxes and signs located in all directions? This is part of our country's depression. One does not feel respected when this surrounding ugliness is tolerated. What beyond is then offered to us? The car, the phones and the high definition screen as transcendence and as hope? The paradise, would it be Auchan, Casino or Carrefour, who are above all the champions of the tax haven? They sell us their junk and receive their dividends, while taking refuge in private hotels in the seventh arrondissement of Paris, which is very preserved. They have villas in Saint-Tropez, chalets in Megève and islands in the Pacific. They live in preserved boxes of this filth and ugliness. Not only does your text not affect this situation, it does not allow us to touch it. We had tabled amendments to that effect, but they were retaliated as legislative riders. I want to make an alarm call. A site inspector, whose function is to monitor the protection of classified sites, came to meet me at my permanence to warn me that in the shadow of Notre-Dame de Paris, we are detriculating thousands of classified sites. Since 1906, thanks to the MP Charles Beauquier, who had worked to ensure that he was not hit at a waterfall in the Doubs, in which it was planned to install forced driving, the minister's signature is required to authorize development at classified sites. Now, in the name of deconcentration or decentralization, the prefect's signature will be sufficient. To date, the inspector has told me that nine out of ten projects have been abandoned in advance, including the installation of a heliport, a spa, a golf course or a five-star hotel: the signature of the minister giving a political dimension to the project, and the authors of a project were discouraged in advance. On the other hand, the prefect will be much more sensitive to the pressures of the notables: that is why the planners are now waiting for the measure to be implemented in the weeks or months to come. They will be able to install their wind turbines or spa in front of Mont Saint-Michel with greater ease. This is the new landscape that awaits France! This inspector, who had made a long trip to meet me, spoke of the devastating effect of this gift to the planners. We will, of course, look at your bill – we have tabled an amendment that deals with subsidiaries. I hope, however, Sancho, that you will take back your spear and your destrier for the good and the good, against the windmills of multinationals and, sometimes, against those of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u72	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u73	Madam Minister, do you know the restaurant Le Saint-Aignan? Obviously not. It is, in my constituency, the only establishment in the small town of Saint-Aignan-de-Couptrain, located between the cities of Alençon, dear Joaquim Pueyo, and Mayenne – a commune, it is true, a little far from the Loir-et-Cher. On one of your visits to Mayenne, I would be very pleased to invite you. It serves tasty and generous cuisine. However, the boss, Mr. Saulet, told me a few months ago that the ban on pre-signs had had a significant impact on attendance and thus on turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u74	I didn't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u75	The question we have to ask ourselves, as we prepare to legislate, is: will this bill improve the life of this restaurant and many others who bring life to our territories, and more specifically to rural areas? As we know, and as has been said, the Advertising Act of 1979 gave a first framework by prohibiting advertising and pre-branding outside the agglomerations, while at the same time adding to this prohibition certain derogations. The latter concerned services particularly useful for people on the move, or the sale of local products. The Grenelle 2 law went further, starting from the observation of the multiplication of the derogatory pre-signs, their often anarchic installation at the entrance of the cities and the impossibility for local advertising regulations to limit this proliferation. It must also be recognized that the regulation was not implemented with zeal – it is an understatement. The aim of the Grenelle 2 Act was therefore to revise the legislation completely, reducing the number of authorized signs and limiting the scope of derogations to local products only. As a result, restaurants with pre-branded shops were found to be in breach, following a five-year transitional period in 2015. This has led to misunderstanding, especially as this new situation has exposed offenders to prohibitive fines. Even more serious: the removal of pre-brands has led to an undeniable loss of activity. Although the figures of up to 45% of losses may be subject to bail, as it is difficult to attribute them solely to the disappearance of pre-brands, it is nevertheless certain that this change in legislation has caused certain establishments to switch below the threshold of profitability. I believe, to say the least, that the implications of the Grenelle 2 Act had not been properly assessed. These provisions were perceived, on the ground, as technocratic decisions coming from above, that is from Paris, without any consideration for local contingencies. This is not entirely wrong, even if, in Fougères, dear Thierry Benoit, or in my dear town of Mayenne, I also find that the cleaning was done in the entrances to town.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u77	Moreover, it must be noted that the local information signs, the SIL, did not allow, by its size in particular, to replace the pre-signs. However, we understand the reluctance that some may have had when this text relaxes a provision of the Grenelle 2 Act. In fact, we have had this debate in our group. Some felt that the balance of this law should not be affected, fearing that Pandora's box might be opened. Others, of which I am a member, felt that it was preferable to take into account the difficulties encountered and to provide, where appropriate, welcome and contained corrections. I recall that this text is far from complete deregulation: the size, number and implementation of these pre-brands is regulated – so much the better! The size, first of all: they may not exceed 1 metre in height and 1.50 metres in width. The number, then: only two pre-signs can be installed. The place, finally: they cannot be installed more than five kilometers from the establishment. There is therefore no risk that the giant advertisements that glazed our countryside and disfigured certain landscapes will flourish. In addition, the Commission's work has reduced the scope of the restaurants concerned to those that promote local products and respond to the "home-made" labeling. This clarification is welcome, in particular because it would have been incomprehensible that large-chain restaurants – I am thinking of some fast-foods of which it is unnecessary to recall the name – are engulfing in the breach that this bill opens. The amendments voted in committee seem, in this respect, to provide additional guarantees in order to circumscribe the arrangements. However, I have seen that some amendments will allow us to discuss the definition and contours of the concept of "restaurant meeting traditional know-how". Let's go back to my initial question. Beyond the important symbol sent to rural areas, in the words of the rapporteur, will this bill improve the attractiveness and vitality of our city centres and city centres? Let us say the first thing at once: this text, whose ambition is limited, will not succeed on its own. I would like to recall that this bill incorporates an article of the ELAN law censored by the Constitutional Council, which considered it to be a legislative horseman. In a few years' time, given the evolution of digital technologies, pre-brands will be obsolete. Our cars will be connected and will be able to tell drivers about nearby restaurants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u79	In fact, this technology already exists, or almost. However, those who live in our rural areas or know the situation in our territories know that the main obstacle lies not in technology, but in its deployment, as Thierry Benoit rightly pointed out. While we have considered, just a few weeks ago, a bill on 5G, whole sections of our territory are not covered by 4G, or even 3G, when they are not in the white zone, as I can unfortunately see in my constituency of Mayenne. This is the truth of our country today, even though ARCEP's measures – the Electronic Communications and Posts Regulatory Authority – do not always show this. For this and many other reasons, we believe that digital spatial planning, whether mobile or very high-speed, must be the top priority of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u80	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u81	I know, Madam Minister, that you share this objective. Digital divides are the most egregious example of the widening gaps between territories and between the French. I am constantly repeating this, together with all my colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group. I also intend to use my speech to draw your attention to the modalities for increasing the visibility of economic actors outside agglomerations. This is particularly the case for local businesses, whose closures do not seem to end. Conquered by both the retail brands and the mastodons of online commerce, they are asphyxiated. We are doing this not only in rural areas, but also in a large number of small and medium-sized cities – I see it in Mayenne. The rapporteurs of the section on sustainable land management of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council have, in addition to the reservations they have expressed on this text, referred in this regard to possible avenues that should be explored. Measures have been taken recently – I am thinking in particular of the "City Action" programme and the provisions of the ELAN law, which has set up territorial revitalization operations, the ORTs. If it is still a little early to take stock of it, I am not sure that they will be enough to stop this development. Finally, I would like to return to the subject matter of the text which brings us together this morning, that it does not mark the opposition between the defenders of the landscapes and the supporters of the economic activity of the nearby restaurants. That is why I am obviously not in favour of detricting the Grenelle 2 Act. A reversal is not desirable – it would not be reasonable and is not proposed. I believe, however, that the reasoned and limited easing of your text, Mr rapporteur, is a step in the right direction and a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Liberties and Territories Group therefore supports this bill, which it will vote for. Like Thierry Benoit, I hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u84	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u85	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u86	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Richard Ramos, for his determination to defend his bill, and the minister for her spirit of openness and the quality of the discussions we have had on this text. The bill tabled by our colleague Richard Ramos, which we are considering this morning in a public sitting, is one of those texts that have a significant, direct and significant impact on the life of our territories. By allowing restaurants to place pre-brands on the outskirts of the city centres, this bill responds to a strong demand from the major players in our territories, who have suffered, for many of them, a loss of 20 to 40% of their turnover since the ban on signs indicating them. Indeed, since the law Grenelle 2 of 2015, pre-signs are prohibited outside the agglomerations and in agglomerations of less than 10000 inhabitants, with the exception of pre-signs relating to certain derogatory activities, very restricted, linked to the terroir, of which the restoration is not part today. Neither supplantive devices such as SIL nor digital applications have made it possible to compensate for the visibility provided by pre-brands to transit customers. Remember that these pre-brands have nothing gadget or obsolete at the time of smartphone applications: on the contrary, they allow tourists and visitors to discover, with a surprise effect, establishments invisible from the road they take. As you know, Madam Minister, our group is driven by respect for the actions taken in favour of landscape quality and by the reduction of the impact of visual pollution. To this end, during the examination of the text in committee, we wanted to restrict the derogation concerning restaurants by changing the original wording, which we felt was too broad, to prevent the fast food chains or the franchises of large brands from re-installing these pre-brands. The La République en marche group wanted to enhance the quality restaurants and the savoir-faire of the restaurant owners by restricting the scope of the derogation to restaurants which meet traditional know-how, and whose majority of dishes have the mention "made homemade", these criteria being defined in the Code of Consumer Affairs. This amendment is the result of collective construction to achieve a new balance. In addition, many of us have been asked by professionals in the art professions and by the very qualitative companies of living heritage, which, together with the restaurateurs, have been the activities most affected by the withdrawal of their pre-brands. Always with weight and pragmatism, and without wanting to open Pandora's box by promoting an unlimited number of activities, I am convinced, based on my experience as a local elected representative, that the attractiveness of our rural territories also depends on the visibility of the specific and traditional activities that are established there and that represent the French excellence of our traditional know-how. I will therefore defend an amendment which will allow this excellence, which is the seal of the identity of our territories, to be recognised and supported. We cannot ignore the consequences of too restrictive measures on the lives of our territories. While our fellow citizens are viscerally attached to the defence of community services and to the animation of village life, restoring this signposting is a strong signal, at a time when the reduction of the territorial divide is an issue of national cohesion. By reasonably expanding the possibility of becoming visible for well-identified activities, we will reassure our territories and its actors about our ability to understand the realities of our fellow citizens and to adapt our decisions to real life, in a way. Our country is proud of its diversity – diversity of landscapes, diversity of cultures, diversity of men and women. While environmental protection and the preservation of landscapes must be given high priority in order to preserve our future, we cannot fail to take into account the people who drive them. What would the beautiful landscapes and the most beautiful sites be if they were empty of life and humanity? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, we will strongly support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u87	Mrs Marianne Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u88	First of all, let me personally welcome the consideration of this bill, because I have worked on it myself for several years, and recently in collaboration with my colleague from the Loiret, Richard Ramos. I have tabled a bill similar to the one we are considering this morning, which was co-signed by thirty-three of our colleagues. It is therefore very much my pleasure to address you as the speaker of the Republican Group and I will defend this text. Why should we allow the installation of these pre-brands for restaurants and hotels in rural areas? I will briefly address two themes: tourism and gastronomy. France – our beautiful France, I should say – is one of the countries hosting the most tourists in the world. We welcomed 87 million tourists in 2017, and nearly 90 million in 2018: this is a record figure, despite events that could have discouraged our foreign friends. Green tourism accounts for much of this success. This year again, we should retain our title as the world's first destination, and I welcome it because it is an important factor for the French economy. Many professional sectors work through tourism. Of course, there are not only foreigners who visit our country: the French themselves choose to spend their holidays in France. The second theme I want to address is gastronomy, dear to our friend Richard Ramos. Here again, our country shines a thousand fires in this field. The reputation of French gastronomy is no longer to be done. In the opinion surveys which allow us to know the reasons which led tourists to choose France as their destination for their holidays, gastronomy is one of the very first motivations, with landscapes, culture and historical monuments. Hoteliers and restaurateurs therefore play a vital role in our economy. Without overdrinking you, let me remind you of a few figures. A land of gastronomy, Hexagone is home to nearly 200,000 restaurants. Over the years, the number of jobs in catering in France goes crescendo. Thus, the sector had 615000 employees in 2013, then 764000 in 2016; Today, the sector represents, nationally, more than 960,000 non-seasonal assets. Traditionally one of the locomotives of the national economy, it is present throughout the territory, in many rural communes, and thus offers a wide range of local services thanks to its multiple establishments. The sector is one of the first employers in France: it employs 3% of all employees. Catering accounts for 60% of tourism's turnover. In addition, 6% of French people go to the restaurant at least once a week. Here I stop the statement of the figures for the catering sector, but you have understood my demonstration: the restaurateurs are indispensable in France. On the other hand, displacement policies aimed at avoiding urban centres and villages make them less and less crossed by motorists. Traders, in particular restaurants, suffer from these bypass routes. Pre-signs were a great way to get tourists or visitors in search of a restaurant into the city. However, the Grenelle 2 law has put an end, since 13 July 2015, to the system derogating from pre-signs. Today it is not a question of returning to the "all authorized" and to the jungle of panels that disfigured our landscapes. Grenelle 2 has been beneficial to our territories, but poor expertise, off-ground and ungraded, has undermined entire sections of our rural economy. The application of this ban on pre-branding has been progressive, if not random, depending on the regions and departments of France, with devastating effects on small rural restaurants and hotels. The latter encounter difficulties in being referenced on the Internet, on professional networks and platforms, or are located in white areas. Signposting is often the only communication to guide clients to these institutions. They are finally, and above all, sometimes the only shops still in operation in the villages of our rural territories. By prohibiting pre-branding in municipalities with fewer than 10000 inhabitants, the legislator has organised a terrible commercial and, above all, territorial discrimination, which is not acceptable. The local trade must be supported, and to this end be visible and accessible in our countryside. Hoteliers and restaurateurs have been severely penalized, with a turnover loss of up to 30%. Some have had to close their establishments, which has sometimes led to drama. All professional associations have asked parliamentarians about the absolute need to reintroduce pre-teaching. The Association des mayores rurales de France also asked the Government about the consequences of the removal of pre-signs sealed on the ground, or simply placed on a easel, which indicate the proximity of a local in rural areas. Since a decree of 13 July 2015, only the SIL, which professionals consider inadequate and totally inadequate for tourism, can be set up. UMIH, supported by AMRF, therefore requests authorisation to use derogatory pre-signs, as can be done today by the activities of manufacturing or selling local products. You understand, I support this request of the profession and the return of the pre-signs. However, some reservations must be made. Pre-signs have been banned by the Grenelle 2 law for environmental reasons. The legislator had tried to remedy this inflation of signs that disfigured our landscapes. All right! However, we must strike a balance between environmental protection, commercial information and the maintenance of life in our villages, between the preservation of our landscapes and the vitality of our rural territories. This is the object of the work that we have undertaken, for more than a year, with UMIH, the department and the prefect of Loiret to define an appropriate and homogenous signage at the department level. The project has been completed; The legislative framework has yet to be changed so that it can be implemented outside of an experiment. However, we must be very careful. Indeed, if the restaurants and hoteliers get satisfaction, are we not going to see other merchants demanding the same treatment? To remedy this problem, which will not fail to arise, we must define safeguards in this bill, safeguards on the conditions for the installation of these pre-signs which can be specified in the implementing decrees. The project we have built in the Loiret can be taken as an example: it is a project of common sense and pragmatic. [[Applause on several benches of the LR, LaREM and MODEM groups]] With these reservations and clarifications, I am naturally in favour of the return of the pre-signs, and the Republicans Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u89	Mr Richard Lioger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u90	[[Laughs]] I fully support the draft law on pre-signs, of which Richard Ramos is the rapporteur and of which I am the second signatory. To plagiarize an old ad, it's two Richards or nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u91	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u92	Today, pre-signs are prohibited outside the agglomerations, except in certain very specific exceptions which concern local products, cultural activities and historical monuments. The draft law, in its original version, provided for the addition of restaurants to these derogations: it allowed all restaurants in France to place pre-brands outside the agglomerations where they are located. This is a claim widely shared by rural traders and artisans, who are, unfortunately, too numerous to close shop, especially the small restaurateurs. Let us hear more than ever their alarm cry, taken up vibratingly by Richard Ramos in his intervention. In committee, the derogation was restricted to restaurants with traditional know-how and most of the dishes are "home-made", in order to avoid this possibility being open to all restaurants, including, Mr Ruffin, fast food and large chains. I welcome this because it is this know-how that must be put forward. Beyond the economic stakes, this measure also has a heritage dimension to which we are all very attached. I recall, as Richard Ramos did, that this bill came out of an amendment that he had defended in the debate on the ELAN law, of which I was the rapporteur. This amendment had given rise to a wide-ranging debate in the House. Mr. Jacques Mézard, your predecessor, and Mr. Julien Denormandie were on the bench of the Government, Madam Minister. This debate was very interesting and ultimately convincing, as you recalled, because it was all voted in the Senate and taken over by the CMP, which was conclusive. You have also been right to recall in this respect the urban, environmental and, dare we say, aesthetic concerns. It should be recalled that community responsibility in this area is the growing alternative, with the growing use of digital technology, as our colleague Favennec-Becot has pointed out, but the ELAN law and the action of your department are leading the development of digital technology, especially in the territories in question. After the censoring of the system, this new proposal makes it possible to put the subject back on the table and to work on it, in particular to restrict derogations to restaurants in the territories that offer traditional cuisine. One of the difficulties was to find a precise and relevant legal criterion for exclusively targeting these restaurants and excluding major brands and franchises. The reference to "homemade" has been proposed in committee for this purpose, as it is precisely defined in the consumer code and is the guarantee of a quality kitchen. The text also allows for a more comprehensive reflection on the economic activities of the territories, which should benefit from greater visibility, in particular those of agglomerations with less than 100,000 inhabitants, in which pre-branding is prohibited. It seems to me that with this limit, there should be no fear of an abundance of brands, given the small number of restaurants that would be allowed to carry out this modest display. As the minister pointed out very well, in the context of the great national debate and the revitalization of the territories, the bill therefore opens the way for a broad and relevant reflection to find the right balance between, on the one hand, the economic attractiveness of the territories and, on the other hand, the preservation of the environment and, of course, the concern for the beauty of our landscapes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] The text defended by Mr Ramos seems to me to respond to this necessary balance. We must, more than ever, commit ourselves to the equality of territories and defend our rurality, the French restoration and the products of the terroir. We will therefore vote with both hands for this magnificent bill. Thank you, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u94	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u95	The subject that brings us together this morning is indicative of the meaning that we Members of the majority want to give to our action: to simplify legislation, to modify it sometimes too, not only to respond to common sense but also to accompany the production of wealth and the valorisation of work in our country. The question of pre-signs is not new: as soon as the Grenelle II was adopted, we knew the difficulties, and even the nuisances, for the restaurateurs of our territories. In my former capacity as Deputy Vice-President of Tourism of the Moselle County Council, I had been alerted very early about the risks posed by these legislative provisions. I have only been able to see the harmful effects on local restaurants far from our main roads. My constituency includes one border with Luxembourg and another with Germany – to locate it, it is Robert Schuman, one of the founding fathers of Europe, to whom I would like to pay tribute on this 9 May, the anniversary of his founding speech by the ECSC, the European Coal and Steel Community. In some of the municipalities in this electoral district, we can play "Border Jump" in only 3 or 4 kilometres. However, our neighbours do not encounter difficulties of any kind in reporting an activity from the road; Therefore, motorists travel a few more kilometres to find a restaurant. It is a turnover that will not be made by the restaurateurs du cru, but it is also value added and tax revenues that escape France. Would the landscapes be of lesser quality there? This is not obvious – perhaps only the strange impression emerges that France would be less active than its neighbours. Europe on a daily basis is also this: it is to question the relevance and effects of the measures that we are voting for in the interests of those who, on a daily basis, are living in the border areas, in which tax, social and normative differences are generally not favourable. Moreover, when there is a ban, there is a sanction. It was in this capacity that restorers in my constituency were forced to pay large sums for circumventing or ignoring the law, or simply for believing that the sanction would never fall. Their activities have been put at risk. The meaning of the decision our predecessors had made is beyond their control. "When the standard is not adapted, it is up to us to change it," said my colleague Ramos in his report. I can only agree with that observation. That is why I myself tabled, several months ago, a bill along the same lines. By reading and rereading the negative opinion of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, I do not understand how improving access to very high speed or adapting the local information signalling system could solve these difficulties – many of our colleagues have, moreover, expressed it before me. Let us stop making things unnecessarily complicated. Our heritage is exceptional. However, we all recognize that it should not be frozen in time. Our landscapes are all equally exceptional, but the postcard is touching only if it is alive. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, it is not only with enthusiasm but also with relief that I will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u96	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u97	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u98	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u99	Mr rapporteur, first of all I would like to thank you for your pugnacity on the issue of restaurants in our rural areas, deleted by the law of 13 July 2015, under the previous legislature. I will be happy to work with each of you, in the group of studies on gastronomy, which has just been created, as the diet is structuring for our economy and our art of living in French. Unfortunately, our country stands out in another area: technocracy. In the name of what would the restaurateurs of the city centres of our territories no longer have the right to point out with the help of panels whose dimensions are, as has been recalled, rather modest in size – 1 square metre – and simply to say that they exist, while advertising for fast-foods blooms on giant screens? In the country of gastronomy, where the French meal is classified as an intangible cultural heritage of humanity, Brillat-Savarin and Grimod de La Reynière must turn to their graves. As you will have understood, it makes us a little angry – my dear colleague Ramos will not contradict me – even more so when this same technocracy sends us back to the all-digital. Not everyone has the latest fashionable mobile phone and the network is still far from going anywhere, as has been frequently recalled. This is further proof that all-digital aggravates inequalities. The reality is that the ban on pre-branding has made it invisible on the roads of many rural restaurateurs, who have lost a significant part of their activity. This is unacceptable because these independent entrepreneurs contribute to the vitality of territories. Behind our hotel-restaurants, there are tourism, quality agricultural sectors, employment and apprenticeship in the professions of the future, at all levels of qualification. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM group]] All these reasons invite us to restore without delay the authorization to install derogatory pre-signs outside the agglomeration for our restaurants, showcases of the know-how of our terroirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u100	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u101	Colleagues, at a time when, as it is very likely to hear from you, this law will be passed, I would like to say a few words to make a small music sound that, without being antagonistic, will be a little different. I, too, come from a rural area with a lot of quality restaurants producing a recognized gastronomy; Therefore, do not believe that my intervention is a manifestation of indifference to the defence of the restoration and the rural economy. But what reality are we talking about and where do we come from? A few years ago, in our rural areas, often very qualitative, all kinds of pre-brands were flourishing, seeking to be more visible to each other: the louder the colour and the larger the size, the more the graphics were visible, and the better it was for the promoters of the activities concerned. They were certainly seen, but to the detriment of something that we, the legislator, must protect and whose preservation was the motivation of this provision of the Grenelle: our landscapes, of which we have not yet sufficiently cared. He is only to convince himself of this to see the entrance of our cities, of which everyone reports and deplores the ugliness. An anarchic and uncontrolled development of pre-brands contributes to the alienation of our territory. You have to have the courage to say. It is not indifferent to the concerns expressed by the professional federations, but it is on the contrary to try to walk together to the benefit of what also makes our territories attractive to tourists: the beauty of our landscapes. The landscape belongs to who looks at it, and you have to know how to defend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Genevard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u103	Conclusion? We're in for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u104	In conclusion, we need safeguards and controls, I understand. But who will control the home process and the reconciliation between the preservation of the landscape and the signalling of economic activities?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u105	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u106	Associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u107	Madam Minister, the rapporteur, we need you to give us guarantees for the proper consideration of each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u108	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u109	I myself am convinced that we have quality culinary activities in our territories, which make both the diversity of the rural areas of our country and the quality of the reception our fellow citizens know how to reserve for their visitors. We all know here how much these quality activities suffer from much too restrictive regulation, prohibiting them from rushing. As such, I am in favour of reintroducing some flexibility,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u111	... provided that it is well supervised and does not benefit all shops, including fast food establishments or food chains,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u113	... and that this framework, as Mrs Genevard has just said, can be controlled by the competent persons. I say it all the more simply because I am, like Thierry Benoit, elected from a constituency that goes from Mont-Saint-Michel, a UNESCO World Heritage site, to Saint-Malo, a historic city that everyone knows. I am well aware that the text proposed this morning will not apply to these very protected areas, although it seems to me that some of the activities of our terroir – such as oysters and mussels from the bay of Mont-Saint-Michel – would sometimes deserve to be better reported, with appropriate and homogenous signs throughout the territory. I am sure that with a little good will, we could find the right solutions. However, the text we are currently considering contains one point which I am concerned about: the opinion of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, which seems to be very mixed about it and recommends better use of digital tools to signal the restaurants concerned. The digital tools seem to me to be able to contribute to a better signalling of this type of business, provided that all our territories can be served by digital tools. As such, Mr Denormandie assured us, in the debate on the ELAN law, that the entire territory would be covered in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u114	Thank you, Mr. Lurton.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u115	We're far from it, and I'd like to know where we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u116	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u117	Many of us recognize – this has been repeatedly pointed out – that the presence of too many billboards would damage the landscape and pollute the entrance of our villages and cities. Their ban is therefore a step forward that we must not go back to. However, we must recognize the economic difficulties, particularly in our rural areas, where small traders and restaurants are facing declines in activity due to a lack of local dynamism. There are already derogations, but they are limited, in particular to small towns of character. It is therefore necessary, with this text, to recognise the specific nature of the rural world. While it should be noted that digital developments play an important role in promoting the products of our territories, it should also be noted that, as has been said on several occasions, some areas are not covered by very high speed or are not able to reach less connected audiences. Pre-brands that highlight the quality of local products can have an impact on the local economy. However, in my view, it is not a question of going back to the spirit of the Grenelle II Act. However, I believe that we could have extended the provision to local businesses that favour local products and value local particularities and their know-how, subject, as has been said on several occasions, to the implementation of strict supervision. I believe, Mr rapporteur, that your work is in the right direction. The Socialist and related group spoke a few moments ago about the text. We have all faced – and myself as a member of a rural area – many requests from mayors to expand the current derogations. This bill is therefore in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u118	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u119	I will also vote for this excellent bill, which is moving in the right direction. It is true that, under the Grenelle de l'Environnement laws, many devices have been adopted whose concrete impact on the ground has not been well measured. Thus, in Alsace, the innkeeper farmers installed along the ridge road are not visible from it, while they are a few hundred meters away. Some activities have thus been undermined by this new legislation. I think it will also be necessary in the coming months to have a discussion on institutional developments and the organisation of local and regional authorities. Would it not be more appropriate for this regulation to be entrusted to the departments, who are aware of local realities, who can impose graphic charters and who may have sufficient staff to verify the correct application of the measures on the ground? In addition, these signs are laid along the departmental roads. Unfortunately, for the reasons we know, the State does not now have the means to carry out checks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u120	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u121	I did not intend to speak after such serious debates, but I would like to welcome the initiative of my colleague Ramos. I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, to draw your attention to the cultural significance of this text. Indeed, what do we see at the edge of our roads? Constraint panels: meaning prohibited; do not exceed such speed;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u122	Eighty kilometers an hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u123	[[Rites, exclamations and applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] ...beware of animals that might hit you; beware of fog. Anyway, we're telling you a lot of things that scare you. Thanks to Mr Ramos' initiative, we will have gratification panels on the side of the road, not attrition panels!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u124	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u125	[["Congratulations" and applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] In doing so, I believe that we are following Danton's path, which, in the face of Saint-Just who wanted a Republic of Sparta, called for a Republic of Cocagne. Well, dear Richard Ramos, this is a first step towards Danton's Cocagne Republic that you are proposing to us here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u126	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to support Amendment No. 16, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u127	This amendment, tabled on the initiative of my colleague Sandrine Le Feur, aims to respond to the practical difficulties posed today by the concept of local products. Indeed, since the latter is not legally defined, the prefects may, from one department to another, consider that a product benefiting from an AOC – controlled label of origin – manufactured or sold by a local company enters the derogatory field of pre-brands or that it does not enter there. This lack of harmonisation is detrimental to the undertakings concerned. Therefore, this amendment aims to explicitly include PDO products – protected designation of origin – which are legally established and solid quality labels, among those whose manufacture or sale by a local company can be indicated by a pre-brand. This is one way, among other things, of legally stabilizing the field of local products. There are many other labels and acronyms indicating the quality or local origin of the products. It remains – in this respect that the adoption of this amendment would be of certain interest – that it is essential to provide our territories and their products with clear and stable legal concepts, wherever they may be.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u128	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u129	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Through this one, Sandrine Le Feur, who is an organic farmer, asks a good question, because the prefects do not apply the concept of a terroir product in the same way, some of them by making a restrictive interpretation. Nevertheless, I ask that the amendment be withdrawn and that, by circular, the Minister bring the AOP and AOC products into the derogatory field. I leave the floor to the minister to confirm that that will be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u131	As the rapporteur has just said, if the provision were to be interpreted differently from one territory to another, I undertake to take the necessary steps to ensure that the law is applied in a uniform manner throughout the national territory. The simplest way would be to send the prefects a circular in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u132	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs Dubois?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u133	Yes. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for these clarifications. We look forward to the dispatch of the circular.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u134	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 14, 12, 11, 19, 21 and 10, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 19 and 21 are identical. I call Mr Mazars to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u135	With your permission, Mr President, I shall at the same time introduce Amendments Nos 12 and 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u136	Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u137	All three aim to define as much as possible what is meant by "traditional restaurant", "traditional know-how" or "homemade". I welcome the work done in committee to restrict the scope of the lifting of the ban on pre-brands to restaurants that offer traditional specialities in rural areas and value products such as veal head, aligot or tripoux – to take examples from Aveyron. However, the scope of the single article remained to be refined, and that was the subject of the three amendments. [[Smile]] I agree with Amendment No 21, tabled on behalf of the La République en marche by my colleague Anne Blanc, who also defends Aveyron's gastronomic products. It is the same as Amendment No 19 by Mr Ramos, which I believe has been endorsed by the Minister. The scope of the authorisation of pre-brands for consumers will therefore be restricted to restaurants offering homemade dishes, which meet a well-known legal definition and are not subject to the risks of interpretation by the prefecture or the control department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u138	If I understand correctly, do you also withdraw your three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u139	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u140	Mr Richard Ramos has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u141	It is intended to restrict the application of the article to establishments offering dishes marked "homemade". Why is that? Because it's a state label. Of course, the question of the posts required in the DGCCRF – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – to carry out the checks will then arise, but we need to defend the public labels. These are not advertising labels: home-made is a reality, and other labels do not necessarily respond to the situation in rural areas. You have to go to quality, to home-made. The purpose of this amendment is to enable those who are embarking on this process to benefit from this text. I have great respect, Mr Ruffin, for public labels, which alone can guarantee real quality, regardless of any marketing or advertising considerations. Restricting the scope of the article to the home-made, without specifying the quantity of dishes involved – because, for the moment, control would be difficult – means both putting the public domain in the face of its responsibilities and ensuring that there is a quality restoration in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u142	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u143	This amendment, supported by the whole group, is identical to the previous one. If we have had so much difficulty finding the right formulation, it is simply because there is no single label today that would accurately identify the quality restaurants we want to defend through the bill. Reference was made to traditional know-how and master restorers, consideration was given to excluding fast food brands from the benefit of the provision, but none of these formulations was legally admissible. Finally, the reference to "homemade" has reached consensus, as it seems to us to be both restrictive enough to guarantee quality and broad enough to allow all the right cuisine from home to benefit from the derogation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u144	I call Mr Mazars to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u145	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u146	What is the Government's view on the two identical amendments that remain under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u147	I would like to thank Mr Mazars for having withdrawn his amendments – which were nevertheless in the right direction. I naturally give an opinion in favour of identical amendments Nos 19 and 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u148	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u149	I am very much in favour of restricting permission to pre-teach only to restaurants making homemade dishes, with the quality criteria that this implies. However, I would like to raise the issue of control – which also applies to the size of the pre-sign, its graphic design and the colours used. Who will control all this? Who will be able to see that the regulations are not being complied with? Today, while most pre-brands are banned, some do not comply with regulations. Tomorrow, when we have reopened this possibility, what assures us that everyone will not do as he wants and that the homemade fact will really be? I therefore believe that the issue of control is essential, and that is true for all kinds of activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u150	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u151	[[Claims on the banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I don't say that out of a spirit of contradiction, but home-made means nothing! It is claimed that this corresponds to a label. I have just consulted the site that presents it: it states that there is no administrative process to obtain the label. Products already chopped, sliced, peeled, etc. can be used very well. Vacuum-packaged products may be used. You can even thaw frozen products! The only condition is that the products arrive separately and that they are mixed on the spot. I eat kebab too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u152	You don't "eat" or "eat".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u153	According to this definition, a kebab is homemade! There is no administrative process for obtaining the "homemade" label and there is no control possible. Frozen, deep-frozen or vacuum-packed products can be used, all of which fall into the category of home-made products. It's completely blurred! The minister pretended, in the gallery – I apologise, but I am analysing it in this way – that the legislation in force was unclear, but that, as we were going to narrow its scope to the home, that would be fine. That's not true! Homemade, almost every restaurant can claim it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u154	He's not wrong...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u155	Only those who, in order to serve a chili con carne, simply open a can and warm the dish in the microwave will be prevented from doing so. All the others, when they assemble separate elements, even if they are foods of industrial origin, will be able to claim that their dishes fall into the category of the home fact – or else the definition of them would have to be changed. If I say that, it is not to bother you, rapporteur – on the contrary, it is to defend your objective. Today, Buffalo Grill, it's "homemade"! McDonald's is "homemade"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u156	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u157	[[Smile]] It is this bill that is "homemade"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u158	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u159	I mean, as a complement, that I do not dispute the desire to value the savoir-faire of the restaurateurs. But it must be noted that the "homemade" label contains some oddities and inconsistencies regularly noted on the ground. Personally, I find it a pity, at a time when the legislative norm is being relaxed, to give it a break by excluding professionals whose profession is more difficult in rural areas than in urban areas, whatever the label they claim. Furthermore, I am not sure that this does not expose the text to legal risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u160	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u161	If new pre-signs are allowed, the aim must be to do so in the most framed way possible. The fact of the house, I repeat, is a non-definition: I refer you, on this point, to the laws themselves, which suggest it. This is why we propose a better framework by adding, after the words: "and all restaurants", the words: ", excluding subsidiaries and franchises of food and food as well as establishments covered by the collective fast food agreement,". This amendment would have the merit of legally securing the text and clarifying the scope of the pre-signs that we accept, excluding those that we do not accept.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u163	In your last book, Mr.Ruffin, you wrote: "My solitary writing was sterile, it was the real that fertilized me. You whom I love, you who go to meet the French people, you are not here in the real, but in the ideology. Besides, I don't like that, incriminating bad food, you're talking about kebabs, this popular dish, because there are still people who make quality kebabs. For my part, I do not say that kebab is not a quality dish, but I plead for quality in general. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For the moment, you should develop the right hemisphere of your brain, seat of emotion and encounter, rather than the left hemisphere, seat of ideological reason. The Ruffin I love, the one who goes to meet the French, the most humble, is not the same as the one who just spoke, for he did not go to meet the restaurateurs. If you had, François, you would have seen that some of them, in rural areas, suffer and close their establishment! If we don't help them, they'll die! Instead of the ideology in which you remain, we must therefore go and look for the real. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I will therefore not be able to support your ideological amendment in that it is based, in order to make the proposed distinction, solely on the legal nature of the institutions. It is the very quality of men and women who, I believe, make the quality of the dishes served in restaurants. [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I will be at your side for the battles that must be waged; But on this amendment, I will not be able to be the Don Quixote you were talking about earlier: I will rather be the "Gift who shoots"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u165	First of all, allow me to greet you, Mr Ruffin, since I have not yet had the opportunity to do so this morning, I believe. Your amendment is of course in the right direction, since it tends to support restaurants which, anchored in the territories, serve quality cuisine and exclude from the scheme subsidiaries, franchises and establishments which fall within the scope of the national collective agreement for fast food. Your intention is therefore very commendable. However, the constitutionality of such a provision seems to me to be very fragile in the light of the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u166	The addition of the word "homemade" is just as fragile!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u167	Amendments Nos 19 and 21, which have just been adopted, seem to me to respond in part, and in a better way, to the concerns that you are expressing here. I agree with the other speakers who have spoken that the expression to which they refer is not absolutely perfect, but it seems to us to be the most secure and, moreover, the most eloquent for the people who circulate in our campaigns, who are driven by common sense. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, unless you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u168	Are you removing him, Mr. Ruffin?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u169	I think you addressed someone else, Mr. Ramos. Indeed, the man who intervened in the rostrum to defend this amendment has not arrived with certainty on what is happening along the national roads, proclaiming that your text was null and void. No! He's just wondering. And the man who wondered went to read the definition of the "homemade" label, to discover that it was possible to bring in all types of establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u170	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u171	Yes! It would take two minutes to read the law to verify that the home fact is not defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u172	This means: developed on site!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u173	I express myself animated by my doubts; and my great doubt, in this case, is that we are opening a breach in which all types of restaurants can be engulfed. No need, therefore, to invite me to open the right hemisphere of my brain. Will President Genevard be asked to do the same with her left hemisphere? I don't think so. My doubt, I repeat, comes from the breach in which, in view of the non-definition of the home fact, everyone will be able to get into trouble. Buffalo Grill and McDo will therefore be able to use pre-signs: I see nothing to prevent them. That is why we propose to give legal guidance to the scope of the text, stating that it does not include subsidiaries or major groups. I would add that these subsidiaries and franchises have the means to pay for ads in 4x3 at the entrance to the cities, alas, but also on television and everywhere else. We need to find ways to reserve pre-brands for those who cannot access these very expensive advertisements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u174	Mr Eric Straumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u175	The question is well asked: Is there a risk of McDonald's and KFC panels blooming? In my constituency, these large groups occupied most of the pre-brands because they have the financial means to do so: they have signs made and they pay very much for the sites. Is there a legal guarantee that the text will not make their panels flourish? Such a boomerang effect would obviously be very damaging.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u176	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u177	I'm obviously fighting McDo and company. But the home-made track seems to me to be the right one, because it means that the dishes are made on site. If McDo installs a "homemade" pre-sign, Mr Ruffin, Mr Straumann, I invite you and all our colleagues, anywhere in France, to make it clear that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u178	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2 and 1, which may be put to a joint debate. I call Mr Cazenove to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u179	The aim is to provide useful information to people on the move by allowing pre-brands outside the city to caterers, cafes, bars and hotels. These institutions have also experienced a decline in turnover due to recent restrictions. We must help them maintain an economic life in our villages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u180	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u181	This amendment, the first of which is signed by Mrs Fontenel-Person, aims to reintegrate tourist commercial accommodation within the scope of activities which can be reported by derogatory pre-signs, with a view to maintaining and developing the local tourist economy, particularly rural. Just like restaurants, tourist accommodation suffers from the disappearance of pre-brands, often the only communication to guide customers to these establishments, sometimes located in white or grey areas and not all of which have access to digital applications. Since the abolition of the pre-brands, the loss of their turnover has been substantial. Moreover, this bill, which covers all restaurants, would allow hotels-restaurants to set up pre-brands while hotels without a restaurant could not. This would create unjustified inequality between these two types of institutions. It is not a question of returning to the polluting situation where the pre-signs flourished on the roads, but of finding a balance between aesthetics of the entrances of communes and information useful to the public, in order to ensure the development of activities and tourism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u182	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u183	He's unfavorable. For the moment, habits have changed. I had also imagined including accommodation but, unlike restaurants, they are, for more than 80% of them, booked in advance, according to the figures given by the hotel sector. The wisdom and concern to preserve our landscapes also argue for a restriction of the scope of authorizations. Its limitation to restaurants will prevent the proliferation of signs that damage our landscapes, while offering a remedy where the ban has done the most harm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u185	It's the same. As I said in my opening remarks, we will stick to Mr Ramos' proposal. In fact, I fully agree with him on the difference in approach he advocates between accommodation and catering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u186	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u187	It is quite legitimate for cafes, hotels or local shops to claim their existence, just as restaurants do. We can see the question of opening a list.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u188	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u189	The bill takes every precaution to protect our territory from an anarchic proliferation of pre-signs. But what will another law succeed him, after a debate based on a whole other experience? As we know, any list only needs to be completed. You yourself know very well, Madam Minister, that you have a long history of these matters: what a law protects, another law, tomorrow, can no longer protect it. As we can see, all the amendments that are still under discussion aim only to broaden the scope of the derogation. That's the risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u190	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u191	I'm just as attached to the bistros in my corner as to the restaurants. Don't we take the problem from the wrong end? Rather than granting a derogation to restaurants, could we not think – including through a mission that would formulate concrete proposals – about the display, on national roads, in any case on those that do not pass through villages, of a list of the shops of the latter, for example 50 meters after the sign that indicates them? I see you making a sign that the characters would not be large enough, rapporteur; But couldn't we find a way? How can we report, on the national roads that do not cross the heart of the village, the shops that it contains? We'd have to think about it. In any case, I don't see why the billiard bistro that's trying to keep its corner alive couldn't get back some of the clientele that's passing through.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u192	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u193	I want to defend the 20% of hotel establishments that do not benefit from bookings made in advance. I therefore maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u194	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u195	The amendments under discussion are of common sense, and at first I thought I would vote in favour. But since we are pragmatic, since the bill focuses on restaurants known as "neighbourliness" – of territory, of terroir – and that it is on the real restaurateurs that we count on to offer home-made products and quality products, it would also make sense to circumscribe the measure, so that those who do not know how to cook but who want to make believe that they serve good cuisine cannot install their panels and pollute our countries. Again by pragmatism, we could therefore vote on the bill as it stands, Madam Minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u196	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u197	... and then assess the scope of the scheme and, after twelve to twenty-four months, take stock of how it all fits into the landscape of our territories. [[Smiles and exclamations]] [[Rites and applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, MODEM and LT groups]] Perhaps the amendments will show their usefulness in some time. For the moment, however, it seems to me to be common sense, I repeat, that we are limited to what the rapporteur and the minister are proposing. Here it is, common sense, pragmatism of the centrists of the IDU; There are others, but there are many at the IDU – at the IDU, at the Agir, among the independents, etc., that is to say a lot of people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u198	[[Smile]] You have forty seconds left, if you still want to quote a few more...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u199	On the single article, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 13, 18 and 9, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Mazars to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u200	It is proposed that, alongside the restaurateurs who cook homemade, artisans who flourish in our rural villages also be allowed to install pre-brands. I suggest in this amendment a definition of the craftsmen who could benefit from this exception. But I am also a co-signatory, together with Mrs Blanc, to Amendment No 18, which is aimed at artisans and those who benefit from the label 'living heritage enterprise' and whose drafting seems to me to be more thorough. I therefore withdraw my amendment in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u201	Mrs Anne Blanc has the floor in support of Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u202	I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mrs Genevard. If we have made mistakes in the past, we have a duty to correct them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u203	Especially concerning Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u204	As is well known, the legislator has always had excellent intentions, but the implementation of the texts can lead to very negative results which he had not anticipated. It is also the purpose of this bill to correct an error.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u205	Just like for the regional cutting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u206	This amendment – co-signed in particular by Philippe Huppé, a specialist in the art professions – tends to open up the possibility of pre-branding to artisans. Crafts are the added value of the know-how of our territories, but, nestled in the depths of our communes, they have become invisible because of the withdrawal of pre-brands. There are, on my territory – I have of course also gathered testimonies from outside the department – artisans who are almost putting the key to it as the number of their visitors has decreased, by 60% for one of them, a potter. That is why we wish to give back to these actors of the territory, of very high quality and which, according to our evaluations, are not so numerous, the possibility of laying pre-signs in order to become visible again, to exist in the eyes of the road users. We have endeavoured to target them well and strictly restrict the measure to those we aim at, that is to say, the small artisans who exercise at the bottom of our communes. According to us, they would be 15000 affected to the greatest possible extent. As for the companies of living heritage, there were in 1400 in France, of which only a small half should be interested. This very important amendment has broad support within our group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u207	I call Mr Yannick Favennec Becot to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u208	I agree with many of the comments made by the previous two speakers. Like the restaurateurs, the activity of artisans – potter, ceramicist, glassmaker, wood or metal workers – depends heavily on tourism and the clientele passing through. However, our colleague Anne Blanc reminded us in committee that this activity has often suffered more than that of the restaurateurs of the abolition of the pre-signs, than the installation of local information signals did not allow to be replaced. Artisans also contribute to the valorization of territories and their identity. They are particularly settled in small villages, where they bring life. We must not hinder the activity of these holders of know-how which is deeply rooted in their terroir and which contributes to the transmission of our traditions. It is not a question of returning to the excesses of past years, when the entrances of villages, towns and cities were saturated with overabundance of signs. But it is simply important not to oppose the protection of landscapes and support for human activities; It is simply necessary to recognize in a pragmatic way that our territories are alive, inhabited by men and women who undertake and want to live from their work. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u209	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u210	It is proposed to extend the scope of the derogation further beyond the restaurators. The proposal is legitimate and has received a favourable reception in committee, but it is necessary to reconcile the preservation of landscapes and attention to those who have been most affected by the previous measures. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u212	It would of course be unfavourable, since the Government had announced that it would stick to the original text. [[MM. Thierry Benoit and Yannick Favennec Becot approve]] I have listened to all of you and have heard all those who are concerned about the extensions of the derogation that will not fail to arrive. This reinforces me in the proposal that I submitted to you starting with: giving mayors the power to display on their territory – where there is a potter, a glassmaker, etc. –, instead of allowing everyone to install pre-brands a little anywhere. I am firmly convinced that this is necessary. I therefore ask you not to vote in favour of these amendments, which would undermine the objective of the bill. I undertake to return to this matter by means of a bill or a bill allowing mayors to announce in the territory of their village that there is a particular craftsman, bistro, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u214	[[Applause on several benches in the MODEM group]] But that one ceases to distribute all-round the right to install panels or pre-signs all over.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u216	What wisdom, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u217	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u218	Yes, Mrs Blanc, a law sometimes seeks to correct the mistakes of the past, and perhaps the Grenelle law was too ambitious, too restrictive or too purist. But now it is necessary to ensure that the remedy is not worse than the evil; It is also our responsibility. That is why I would like to return to Mr Straumann's very interesting proposal to give the departments the opportunity to...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u219	In short, in the communities...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u220	... to establish an advertising regulation that determines the size of the panels, their colours and their location – in such a way as, for example, to allow for grouped locations. Minister, the decrees implementing the text will be decisive to ensure that the door is not too open, contrary to what the professionals in the manufacture of signs call their wishes – because the sector is exerting strong pressure to get the reopening of a major market. Without stigmatizing these enterprises, the voice of the general interest must be heard, that is also the imperative of protecting the landscape.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u221	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u222	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I have listened to you, Madam Minister; I even heard you, and I decided to trust you. I therefore expect you to come back to the national representation and submit a text offering mayors some latitude in the matter before us. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u223	Wise decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u224	I call Mr Lenaïck Adam to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u225	The so-called "Grenelle" laws have been appreciated by many for their ambition to restore to the environment and to the best of living a renewed place in our legal arsenal. Since 2010, legislation on the installation of billboards has evolved, resulting in the removal of many billboards and pre-signboards in cities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants outside the city. In all logical terms, derogations from the prohibition have been provided for, as set out in article L. 581-19 of the Environmental Code: pre-signs intended to promote local products or to indicate the presence of cultural activities and historical monuments open to the public are allowed in municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants located outside the agglomeration. My territory, Guyana, has a large number of municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants. Urbanized areas are not the majority, distances are large and vegetation is abundant. Like many other ultramarine and hexagonal territories, Guyana seeks to enhance its lush environment by developing ecotourism activities. Focusing on nature and the environment, as a matter of principle far from urban areas, these activities must be easily identifiable. My amendment therefore aims to add ecotourism activities to the list of cases of derogation provided for in the aforementioned Article. Such initiatives, whether public or private, must be highly valued, as they constitute a path of economic and social dynamism for our ultramarine and rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u227	It is unfavorable, for the simple reason that the word "ecotourism", having no legal definition, could not be included in the text, regardless of the correctness of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u229	For the same reasons as for the previous amendments, I would ask Mr Adam to withdraw his amendment, knowing that we will be attentive to what he is proposing in the text I announced earlier, which will allow mayors or, more generally, local and regional authorities to take account of the concerns of the various sectors mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u230	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Mr Adam?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u231	I maintain it, for the simple reason that it is incomprehensible, when one invokes the biodiversity of the ultramarine territories or the need to protect the Amazon forest, to rule out the possibility of proposing projects and tourist sites that value the environment and nature. The rapporteur's argument that the term ecotourism does not have a legal meaning is, moreover, too simple and even simplistic, because everyone knows very well what this word means.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u232	There are no explanations of vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u233	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u234	It seems to me that we have grasped each other's positions well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u235	I put to the vote the single article, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u236	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 81 Absolute majority 41 For adoption 81 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u237	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u238	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u239	The next item is the debate on the bill adopted by the Senate to create a similar right for news agencies and press publishers (No. 1616, 1922).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u240	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u241	[[Smile]] I would like first of all to give the reason for my presence in the gallery: the Minister of Culture, who returned from Italy, where he represented the President of the Republic for the opening of the Venice Biennale, was unfortunately delayed by, how to say, problems attributable to the pointers of the sky, but he will be well present to take part in the discussion in... some time. You are aware of his mobilization on this bill and of the work done during the European negotiations and in the Senate so that you can consider it today. It is a fundamental text for the future of the press sector as a whole and, therefore, for the very vitality of our democracy. Without the media, indeed, there is no democracy: they are the watchdogs. In recent months, however, they have been repeatedly attacked: journalists have been attacked, printing works blocked, kiosks on the burning Champs Elysées, the role of the disputed press. This violence, wherever it comes from, is unacceptable, intolerable, inexcusable. It is all the more dangerous because, at the time of social networks, we need more than ever the professional press to filter out false information, to verify the decryption and contextualization of facts, to ensure that our citizens have the greatest possible diversity of views. But in order for press publishers and journalists to do their job properly, the press must first and foremost have sufficient resources. However, its economic model is severely undermined by the digital revolution. Unfortunately, some players have not survived, but many have been able to adapt by investing, reinventing themselves, adopting innovative business models – notably through advertising and subscriptions. Yet, despite these efforts, the press continues to play its part in the future, as the growth of digital revenues has not offset the decline in paper publishing revenues. If this compensation has not taken place, it is partly because the value created by publishers and news agencies is captured by others, in particular by platforms and content aggregators, search engines, who re-use their content without paying them off, even though they often generate significant advertising revenues. The figures are instructive: according to a July 2016 study, publishers would receive only 13% of the value produced by the French Internet content aggregators – of course, such a rate is not acceptable. We cannot accept that those who broadcast the content are inordinately better paid than those who create them. Not only is it unfair, but it is a danger to the entire press. Indeed, through the publishers and news agencies, it is the whole industry that is affected, from journalists to the newspaper merchants, and in the long run, pluralism is threatened. The existence of a free and independent press is therefore called into question. Sammy Ketz, a great reporter at the AFP, has explained it brilliantly on several occasions in his stands. In one of them, he writes: "Many times I have met besieged, isolated, defenseless people who asked only one thing: "Tell what you have seen, so we will have a chance to be saved!" Do I have to tell them: "No, lose your illusions, we are the last journalists, soon you will not see any more, because they will disappear for lack of means"? » The neighboring right is to preserve their means of going to the field. This means allowing news agencies and publishers to pay for "ball vests, helmets, armored cars, sometimes bodyguards to avoid being taken away" as Sammy Ketz wrote. It is to allow journalists to inform, and to do so while being protected. Creating a similar right for publishers and news agencies is a guarantee of fair sharing of the value created. It is a rebalancing of the balance of power, for the benefit of publishers and news agencies, by allowing them to receive remuneration for each re-use of their content. We can achieve this rebalancing because the principle of neighbouring law is now enshrined in European law; the text submitted to you this morning is therefore a transposition text. It had to be adopted by the European Union and not only by a state, because, to deal with digital giants, our only effective and credible protection is Europe. On this subject, in the face of digital giants, we will only do the weight if we make a common front. So far, isolated initiatives have failed. We have had the proof with the Spanish and German cases. A neighbouring right was created in Spain three years ago; Since then, no remuneration has been paid to publishers, and some content aggregators, including Google News, have preferred to close their service in Spain. In Germany, where the neighbouring right was introduced in 2013, Google refused to negotiate the payment of a percentage of its turnover, and many German publishers eventually granted a free license to Google. We must learn from this: our only effective and credible protection is the Union. Platforms could perhaps seek to circumvent the rule if only one or two countries were involved. They could perhaps give up a few tens of millions of users, but they cannot turn their backs on Europe; they cannot divest 700 million potential users. They will face the same dilemma when we put them in front of their responsibilities with regard to illegal content on the Internet. You will soon be asked to review the bill of MP Laetitia Avia, which aims to combat hate speech on the Internet. This is a fundamental initiative, but here too we must push things at European level. We will have to deal with the reform of the e-commerce directive...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u242	Absolutely! It's a huge project!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u243	... to ensure that platforms are more accountable and are no longer only considered as content hosts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u245	We must also ensure that the French rules apply to platforms that broadcast in France in a way similar to that of the GAFA tax – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon. I am extremely pleased to see that, on these fundamental issues, France knows how to show a united front. Indeed, even before the directive was passed, this bill was considered in the Senate in January, at the initiative of Senator David Assouline, and adopted unanimously. It is this same spirit of consensus that led the MODEM Group and its chairman, Mr Patrick Mignola, to put this bill, which was the result of an initiative of the Socialist and Republican Group of the Senate, into its niche. Your committee work has made it possible to amend the text adopted by the Senate to reflect the final text of the directive, and I thank Chair Bruno Studer for the quality of the committee's work. The bill that is before you is a balanced and protective text of the press. The text should be placed in a broader context: that of the Government's press policy. First of all, the bill on the modernization of the distribution of the press, which will be discussed in a public sitting in the Senate from 22 May, will make it possible to modernize the system of distribution of the press to the number without breaking the current system. The examination by Bruno Le Maire and Franck Riester of a sector plan, proposed by the main publishers of the political and general news media, aims to better accompany the modernization of the sector. Finally, I would like to give you some details of the method and timetable for the next steps in transposing other essential provisions for copyright. Indeed, if the text you are considering here is indispensable, it only transposes part of the copyright directive. One of the key factors in the successful negotiation of this text has been the unwavering mobilization, with a united front, of all sectors and all stakeholders. I want to tell them all that the mobilization of the Government continues on all the other issues, leading to the rapid transposition of key provisions into the audiovisual bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u247	I am thinking of Articles 13 and 14 of the Copyright Directive, which will make it possible to impose on the platforms a fair remuneration for creators for the content they reuse and a fair and proportionate remuneration for authors. I am also thinking of securing the ReLIRE system – the register of books not available in electronic re-editing –, a beautiful French project to digitise books not available, which we must bring in line with European law to allow its continuation. There is still the adaptation of the provisions of the LCAP law – on freedom of creation, architecture and heritage – for the reference engines of images, in order to bring them into line with European law in order to ensure their effective application.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u249	I am also thinking of the principle of direct injection of the CabSat directive – cable and satellite. The amendment tabled by the Government on this subject in the text that you are now considering has unfortunately been considered inadmissible, but we remain very active in ensuring its speedy transposition. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I see as the major issues in this text and, more generally, the adaptation of copyright to the digital environment. This is a proposal for a strategic law, dear Patrick Mignola, which you propose to adopt, with the full support of the Committee on Cultural Affairs of the National Assembly and the Government, because we must be proud, in the wake of Europe, to lay together the first stones of a real regulation of digital technology, allowing a rebalancing of power relations for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u250	Mr Mignola, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u251	If we are here, it is first and foremost to defend democracy. However, in order to defend democracy, the press, its freedom and pluralism must be defended. By defending the press, we support journalism, independent journalism, quality journalism. However, there is no independence of the media without the economic independence of the media. [[Laughs]] True, "man eats not only bread," as Karl Marx said, but without bread, there is no freedom. After quoting Marx, we could quote François Bayrou, according to which the media should not be dependent on the "powers of money": they must have their own resources, clear and lasting. On this day of Europe, I have the honour to present to you a proposal for a law transposing a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on copyright in the digital single market. To take up the title of the Sammy Ketz gallery that you mentioned, Madam Minister, the adoption of this directive was indeed "a matter of life or death" for the media – and through them for journalists and other photographers – whose revenues generated by the distribution of press publications are now more than 90% captured by the GAFAM – – – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft. This is a great step forward that we owe to the European Union. It was crucial that this initiative should come from the Union, because the failure of the isolated attempts to introduce neighbouring rights that could have been made in Germany, Spain or Belgium had clearly shown that it was only on a European scale that we could achieve real efficiency. I say this with great humility, a year after defending the bill of my own political group in the Chamber: the National Assembly was right to refer back to committee the text I then carried to make it a means of pressure so that, united together, we could obtain the adoption of a directive at European level. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] Because it is the word unity that must inhabit us, both of us. I am thinking of the unity shown by many countries in the European Parliament, and that of all parties in the French Parliament, since the Senate was unanimous, like our committee, last week. I am pleased to have taken up Senator David Assouline's bill – I see him attending our debates from the public gallery, and I thank him – and the members of the Socialist and Republican group in the Senate. I would also like to thank each and every one of you for the very big work we have done together on this text. In the face of GAFAM, there can be no political calculations or tactician subtlety; We all have to be together. However, our unanimity did not prevent us from having discussions. Last week, in particular with regard to the definition of very short extracts, the duration of the protection of the neighbouring right, the methods of calculating the remuneration of this right, the appropriate and fair share which will be handed over to journalists, and, of course, the safeguards which must be included in the text in the event that there is no agreement on the remuneration and the proportion returned to journalists, photographers or videographers. As early as last week, answers could be given to the questions which had led to these debates on the initiative of Members from several groups. First of all, they aim to stay as close as possible to the directive in order to avoid any legal risk. Thus, on the proposal of our colleagues Frédérique Dumas, Constance Le Grip, Sylvia Pinel, Jeanine Dubie and many Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, a new article was introduced in the text in order to exclude hyperlinks, isolated words and very short extracts from the scope of the neighbouring law. On the proposal of our colleagues Constance Le Grip, Aurore Berger and Fannette Charvier – whom I want to thank again for the important work she has been doing on the subject for a year – as well as the members of the group As the Republic is on the move, the Commission has set the period of protection of the neighbouring right at two years. On my proposal, shared again with Mrs Dumas, Mrs Le Grip, Mrs Pinel, Mrs Dubie, and several Members of the MODEM Group, the concept of a press publisher has been clarified. In addition, with the Republic on the move, I have proposed to clarify the remuneration base of the neighbouring right so that it includes revenues of any kind, direct or indirect, which includes not only advertising revenues but also those resulting from the sale of connection, profiling or advertising targeting data. Our committee has also introduced an obligation of transparency which can be applied against, on the one hand, online public communication services for publishers and news agencies, and, on the other hand, against publishers and news agencies for professional journalists and other authors of works which are integrated into press publications, on the other hand, concerning the method of calculating the share of remuneration to be given back to them, stating that it should be appropriate, in accordance with the directive, but also fair. Members from different political groups were thus able, in committee, to contribute their stones to the construction of this new mechanism. Of course, I hope that the same goes for a public meeting, knowing the answers we still need to give to the questions that were raised last week. I note in this regard that extremely welcome amendments have been tabled. The "La République en marche" group thus proposes a relief mechanism in the absence of an agreement between publishers or news agencies and journalists. I am also thinking of the amendment tabled by the Socialist and Related Group, which aims to devote a qualitative and functional approach to the concept of very short extracts. I am still thinking of the IDU Group's proposal to extend the authorisation, and therefore the remuneration, of publishers and news agencies to the provision of press publications by the platforms. I would also like to say to the members of the FI Group – who will hear me, from where they are... – that I have taken up one of their amendments, relating to the application of the law. I hope that we can all join, "at the heart of the common fight" – to quote Aragon this time. I hope that we will continue this work of co-construction and that the fine unanimity which we have shown in committee will again arise in the sitting. But I hope that the publishers and news agencies will also be able to stand united in negotiating with the debtors of neighbouring law, i.e. with the GAFAMs, because it can only be fruitful if the balance of power is balanced. This will only be the case if publishers and news agencies undertake to negotiate collectively with debtors rather than individually, an initiative that would be doomed to failure. It is therefore crucial that they be represented, as far as possible, in the negotiation process by a collective management body – as permitted by section 3 of this bill. In the absence of a negotiating mandate granted to such a body, they could at least join forces to negotiate the remuneration of their neighbouring right, even though they could entrust to a collective management body the collection and ex post distribution of such remuneration. Their solidarity with the platforms is decisive: a year of disagreement would be another year of permanently lost income. We can therefore only appeal to the responsibility of all the actors during the negotiation, but also in its aftermath, to define the fair share that should be returned to the journalists who create the content. This will, in essence, be a decisive way for actors to take ownership of the law. Together, we can express the hope that national representation will adopt this bill and that it will subsequently find rapid, effective and fair implementation. Following the introduction of editorial responsibility for fake news and the creation of a digital services tax, this text represents a new and essential step towards the integration of GAFAMs into the democratic framework. [[Applause on all benches]] In conclusion, I would say that it is our duty, in this House, to fight against the law of the strongest, and that it is our honour to do so. In an open and globalized world, content and production, i.e. work, are often exploited by large financial powers for their almost exclusive benefit. This is the case, dear Richard Ramos, as you know, for the work of farmers, which unfairly leads to more profits for large distribution than for the peasants themselves; This is also the case for employees in industries, who receive less fair remuneration for their efforts than those who market and distribute what they have manufactured; and this is the case in the digital world, where the work of journalists is monetized on the internet without any return for the press. In the face of this capitalism which deepens the growing inequalities, it is indeed our duty to give back rule and justice, to make regulation by law. Then let's do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u252	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u253	This is an opportunity, of course, to repeat to this rostrum what I had expressed during the consideration of the bill to combat the manipulation of information: the Government and Parliament are constantly working to guarantee to the press of our country the conditions necessary for the continuation of its activity, which is a matter of democracy; We need a free and independent press, a plural press, a professional press. That is what prompts us to come back to this House on the issue of the neighbouring rights of publishers and news agencies. I think I can say that this text does not give rise to a long, quiet river, since a year ago, when we considered a previous bill by Mr Mignola to extend the neighbouring right, our House voted to refer the matter back to committee. Not that the stakes were not already crucial at the time, but we could not take the risk of failing the current European discussions. Some of our neighbours, as you pointed out, the minister, had already tried to implement such mechanisms and, each time, the pot of land in national legislation had come up against the iron pot of digital platforms. Together, we can be more effective. I then committed myself, Mr rapporteur, if the European way did not succeed, to resume the discussions in committee. Fortunately, on 26 March and 15 April 2019, a historic victory was achieved at European level: the final adoption of the Copyright Directive in the European Parliament. As a driving force in this process, France has fought for this directive to come into being and has invested fully in convincing our partners of its necessity and urgency. We can be proud of the solution. The Directive introduces a similar right to copyright, to the benefit of news agencies and publishers. Thanks to the persistence of the Government, particularly the Minister of Culture, Franck Riester, whom I want to salute, the platforms, which have been under-regulated and supervised for too long, will no longer be able to enrich themselves at the expense of those who create the information content. I am pleased that we can now work towards the transposition into our national law of the provisions of the Copyright Directive. In this regard, as the rapporteur has done, I welcome the work of David Assouline, as well as that of the committee in charge of these matters in the Senate, chaired by Catherine Morin-Desailly, for the opportunity that he offers us to speed up the transposition procedure today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u254	Yes! Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u255	This bill creates a similar right for news agencies and press publishers, i.e. the right to authorize or prohibit any reproduction or communication to the public of their publications in digital form by an online broadcasting service. Dear Patrick Mignola, I commend your investment and the quality of your preparatory work. In committee, we have already agreed the text with the provisions of the directive, giving details of the scope of this neighbouring right. Hypertext links will of course not be involved, contrary to some rumours that have circulated during the discussion of the directive. The right of summons will not be further challenged. I would add that, with an amendment on transparency in the use of press publications by their users, we have sought to empower the platforms. I welcome the unanimous adoption of the bill in committee, and I am confident in our ability to reach a broad agreement in committee. It is therefore not only a matter of strengthening news agencies and publishers by giving them what they have to do, but also of subjecting digital platforms to the same rules as all other actors. That is the approach we are defending at the national, European and international levels. The law against the manipulation of information passed last year, the so-called GAFAN tax – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix – recently adopted, but also the bill against cyber-harassment brought forward by our colleague Laetitia Avia and the upcoming audiovisual reform, are part of a comprehensive project. Indeed, through these various measures, the parliamentary majority, with very often the contribution of all the groups present this morning in the Chamber, shows its determination to empower digital giants, to subject them to regulations and to impose them in proportion to their economic weight. This is how we will rise to the challenge of our time: by fighting against the domination of digital platforms and for their accountability. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] If this text is a victory for Parliament, it is of course a victory for France and, beyond that, it is a victory for Europe, which thus shows its ability, long awaited by the 500 million citizens who make it live on a daily basis, to build a sovereignty which, we see, can lead to the strengthening of that of the countries that make it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u256	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-09-O1222.u257	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law on the neighbouring right of news agencies and press publishers; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the ownership of local public enterprises; Discussion of the proposal for a law prohibiting electric fishing. The meeting is adjourned.
