ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u2	Mr Loïc Dombreval has the floor to put his question, No 572, on the labelling of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u3	My question is to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. On 5 December 2018, a well-known distribution sign and three welfare associations launched a label informing consumers about the level of respect for animal welfare and dealing with the stocking, rearing, collection, transport and slaughter of the animal. Its objective is to inform the consumer of the level of welfare enjoyed by the animal throughout its life to slaughter. This information takes the form of a thumbnail ranging from the letter A for a so-called "upper" level to the letter D for a level displayed as "standard". Levels A, B and C thus show a significant improvement in animal welfare. Labels are issued following an audit based on nearly 230 technical and scientific criteria. The breeder, the breeder group, the hatchery, the transporter and the slaughterhouse are checked. Each operator is audited annually. The actors of this approach hope to improve transparency on animal husbandry, transport and slaughter conditions and, ultimately, to improve the overall level of respect for animal welfare. I would like to pay tribute to this voluntary ambition, which for the moment concerns only chickens of flesh. At this stage, although caution should be exercised as to the possibility of generalizing this system, it must be recognised that it already has the great merit of existence. I know that animal husbandry conditions, welfare and animal welfare are subjects which the Minister for Agriculture and Food takes to heart. Can we hope that labelling dedicated to animal welfare, or that the integration of animal welfare into multi-criteria labelling, will finally be standardized in France, as is the case successfully in Denmark?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u5	Mr President, on the occasion of the launch by a distributor of a new label to assess the level of respect for animal welfare. While consumers often ignore the reality of animal and plant production patterns, they are increasingly aware of animal welfare. Concerns have arisen, in particular because some associations regularly denounce practices of mistreatment in livestock farming or slaughter that discredit the entire sector, even though these practices are fortunately not representative. Consumers thus gradually lose confidence in the products offered to them and express a need to be reassured to which distributors are now trying to respond. In this context, it becomes essential to take into account the expectations of consumers, while providing them with objective information on animal welfare and its decline in livestock production, during transport or at slaughter. In particular, the work carried out during the general states of food has allowed for a better understanding of consumer expectations in terms of animal welfare and transparency on animal husbandry patterns. It is within this framework that the National Food Council – CNA – has been entrusted with a mission of reflection for a wider experiment on the labelling of farming methods, like the one you call your wishes. The task will be to draw up an overview of existing European and national rules, to define the scope of testing – sectors, animals, foodstuffs and methods of farming, how products of animal origin are differentiated and how they appear on the labelling – and to lay down the conditions for the implementation of such an indication in order to ensure that consumers are provided with clear, comprehensible and deceptive information. Before the end of the year, the NAC will propose a method of experimentation, as well as tools for the analysis of this experiment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u6	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to raise her question, No. 564, on violence during demonstrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u7	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, my question is actually that of yellow vests of Ariège, which I have committed to ask you. Your government and yourself continue to denounce the violence of the demonstrators, but never ask you where it comes from. Citing Hélder Câmara allows me to put things in order: "There are three kinds of violence. The first, the mother of all others, is institutional violence, the one that legalizes and perpetuates dominations, oppressions and exploitations, the one that crushes and lamines millions of men in its silent and well-oiled workings. The second is revolutionary violence, which is born of the will to abolish the first. The third is repressive violence, which aims to stifle the second by making itself the auxiliary and accomplice of the first violence, the one that generates all the others. There is no worse hypocrisy to call violence than the second, pretending to forget the first, which gives birth to it, and the third that kills it. » Instead of dealing with the causes of violence, you choose to crack down on the consequences. You are blaming violence against material property to better ignore the violence of your policy. And you know that you have a share of responsibility in the violence you denounce. If some break windows, your policy breaks lives. These broken lives do not date from the movement of the yellow vests, which is only the tip of the iceberg of daily violence, suffered in a silence that sometimes leads to suicide. Yellow vests are far more violent than they are – abused by a life too expensive to live. What's this about? Violence suffered by a retired woman who no longer survives with her 365 euros per month. Violence against an isolated mother who struggles to pay for her eldest daughter's education. Full-time nurse, she works at night to earn a few extra euros, forcing her to put her 11-year-old son in boarding school. It collects 1,700 euros a month with 1250 euros of incompressible charges, which obliges it to make ironings to try to get out of it. Violence against a 60-year-old man, a former banking executive currently at the RSA, who cannot fill his fuel tank. Violence that repeats when he cannot provide a few hours of acting because his car is broken and he does not have the means to repair it. Without a car, in rural areas, you can't work. Violence in the shame of these workers, for example, to turn to the People's Relief, or to live in their cars because their wages do not allow them to stay. So when, from Paris, they are called "wainers", it can only make them angry. I repeat: yellow vests are not violent, but violent. Your law enforcement officers fired at demonstrators who had their arms in the air as a sign of non-violence. Not only is the violence of your repression unjust and unwarranted, but your law enforcement forces become those of disorder when they no longer respect the law they are supposed to enforce. Is it useful, Mr. Secretary of State, to remind you that it is illegal to abort people? It is by mutilating innocent people that you push people to become violent. Your government is succumbing to illegitimate violence. United Nations experts denounce serious restrictions on the right to demonstrate. In a press release dated 14 February, they stated that "The restrictions imposed on rights have also led to a high number of arrests and police custody, searches and confiscations of protestors' equipment, as well as serious injuries caused by the disproportionate use of so-called "non-lethal" weapons".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u8	If you want an answer, my dear colleague, you'll have to give the government some time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u9	Secretary of State, when are you going to put an end to this authoritarian drift and finally tackle the causes of people's ill-being? The question of yellow vests is simple: when will you resign?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u10	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u11	The demonstrations of the yellow vests have brought out legitimate demands to which the Government and the President of the Republic have responded by organizing a major debate and taking exceptional measures to increase the purchasing power of the French. In the context of the major debate, more than 850,000 contributions were recorded and 3,000 local meetings were held, which we owe to the mayors, who are essential facilitators of the democratic debate. A legitimate claim was expressed and it was heard. The debate is continuing, but I believe that no claim can justify the escalation of the violence perpetrated by some demonstrators. Every Saturday, law enforcement officials are caught by ultra-violent individuals who violate the right to demonstrate. Those who adopt this behavior are not peaceful demonstrators. There are lootings, abuses, serious attacks on our institutions. I note that this violence, Madam Member, you are legitimizing it. Worse: you accuse the internal security forces, in words not covered, of voluntary violence, calling them "forces of disorder". In my turn, I ask you a question: how can you make such a statement? How can you keep holding them after the serious incidents this weekend? Far from wanting to question the right to demonstrate, the Government, Christophe Castaner and I are determined to guarantee the freedom to demonstrate, which the bill under discussion, which will soon be adopted on final reading, will make easier. It is intended to exclude the breakers, and only the breakers, from demonstrations. Be assured that we are fully committed to maintaining public order during demonstrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u12	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, to put his question, No. 566, concerning the districts of republican reconquest in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u13	Mr. Secretary of State, I had originally planned to ask you a question about the redeployment of the daily security police and the republican reconquest districts – QRR – in Seine-Saint-Denis. This department was indeed the great forgotten of the first version of the project: for the Seine-Saint-Denis, there was only a small area of 20,000 inhabitants, whereas the scheme covered thirty neighbourhoods, where a total of 860,000 French inhabitants lived. I saw it as a sign that once again our department was discriminated against: there was only 2.5 per cent of the population covered by this system. Since then, you have announced, together with the Minister of the Interior, that the new deployment of this police force would involve two new areas, more important and among the most criminogenic in the department. Thank you for listening and listening to the concerns of many of its elected officials. However, I would like to alert you to a situation which remains extremely worrying. I have already asked the Minister of the Interior about the intentions of the police prefecture concerning the partial mergers of police stations for the night and the weekend, which are very worrying for elected officials, because they have given rise to very little consultation. Will this device be stopped, or will it continue? On the other hand, staffing problems remain. Over the past 15 years, the number of police stations in Stains-Pierrefitte has decreased by 25 per cent, while the population of these two cities is paradoxically increasing by 25 per cent. As a result, ensuring the safety of our fellow citizens is necessarily becoming very difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u14	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u15	Mr President, I thank you for reminding you that Mr Castaner and I have decided to set up two new QRRs in the Seine-Saint-Denis department, in addition to the two neighbourhoods in Aulnay-sous-Bois and Sevran. This is a sign of the Government's attention to this department, which I know well for exercising there. We had the opportunity to recall this during the debate in this Chamber on the situation of the Seine-Saint-Denis in all areas, including security: our attention to this department is very strong. You have indicated that, as part of the launch of the republican reconquest districts to be created in Saint-Denis and Aubervilliers, we have already planned reinforcements. These will be announced when Mr. Castaner and I come together or separately to officially install these RQs. It is indeed a question of putting emphasis on territories with the particularly degraded situation in terms of delinquency. This is the case in Saint-Denis, as we often call it together. We will have the opportunity to increase the number of staff and, above all, to strengthen the coordination mechanism with the public prosecutor's offices. This will enable us to fight, in particular, drug trafficking and saviour sales, which are a real difficulty in Saint-Denis. Of course, we will pay close attention to these collaborative arrangements. You're asking me two more specific questions about the numbers. As I speak to you, I do not know the staffing situation in the Stains-Pierrefitte police station, but I can repeat what I said during the great debate, namely that the Seine Saint-Denis is a priority for us in the recruitment and deployment of police officers. We are working on loyalty arrangements so that, once assigned to the Seine Saint-Denis, these officials will remain there. This is a challenge, since you know that many people leave the department quickly to return to the province. We also promote this loyalty for judicial police officers, whose proportion on the whole service, in the Seine Saint-Denis department, is one of the weakest in France. We will ensure that the conditions for this loyalty are created. The total number of staff in the Seine Saint-Denis will therefore be the subject of sustained attention, even if they have already increased significantly. I do not have a precise figure, and I am sorry, but the current level is higher than the reference number in the Seine Saint-Denis and we will ensure, together with Christophe Castaner, that this remains the case. As for your second question about the merger of police stations, the objective, as often in this type of reform, is that judicial police officers are more available at the time when complaints are filed, so not at night or on weekends. In my view, the police commissioner has incorporated this thinking. That is, in any case, what we are asking for. In addition, these mergers, these mutualizations, are often a way to increase the presence of our officials on the public highway. But you have drawn my attention to these mergers, and believe that we will be paying attention to them as part of the roll-out of QRRs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u16	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u17	Thank you for those answers. In any case, we will continue to work closely on this issue. I hear your argument about mergers, but it must be done in full agreement. The local elected representatives of the department, of all sides, are extremely concerned, because they consider that they have not been associated with it. It is a sensitive subject, at the forefront of the people's concerns. We cannot reform like this without consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u18	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to raise her question, No. 589, concerning the return of jihadists holding French nationality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u19	"If there are jihadists who perish in these struggles, I would say it's so much better. There is nothing we can do to prevent them from returning. We can continue the fight to neutralize the maximum number of jihadists. You will have acknowledged the words of the Minister of Armed Forces on October 15, 2017. Since then, unfortunately, the arbitrations have not looked in favour of Florence Parly. Indeed, following the planned departure of American troops, the Government announced the establishment of a mechanism to bring about the return of a hundred jihadists on our soil – 130 according to the press. These jihadists holding French nationality are now prisoners in Syria and the Government would therefore work to bring them back without trial where they committed their crimes. Funny conception of international law! On 29 January, Government, by the voice of Christophe Castaner, explained: "we know where they are and who they are". I therefore wish, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, that you give precise indication to the national representation of the number of persons concerned, who among them have another nationality, and where appropriate the person or persons concerned. For binationals and even multinationals, can you tell us whether discussions have been initiated with the countries whose jihadists are also nationals, and on what criteria the choice of a return to France, rather than to the other country, has been made? Finally, since I still do not understand why the Government did not initiate procedures for deprivation of nationality as soon as it became aware of the identity of these soldiers of the Islamic State, who are de facto enemies of France. Can you shed some light on France's interest in keeping them among its citizens? The Islamists, as Mr Finkelkraut experienced this weekend, are already largely present on our soil. Why, then, do you want to increase their troops at all costs by bringing back the most dangerous of them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u20	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u21	Mrs Le Pen, you are referring to the situation of the French jihadists who left in Syria and Iraq. I recall first that since the beginning of the period, i.e. approximately since 2013, 1300 people have left the national territory to go to fight jihad. Of these, we estimate that about 300 people have died in the area and 270 people have already returned to France. It would remain a few hundred adults still alive in Syria and Iraq. On the very precise question of the number of prisoners in Syria and Iraq, you know that most of them are held in Syria by Syrian democratic forces, mostly composed of Kurds. They are under conditions which we know and which it is not for me to reveal, since they are covered by the secrecy of national defence. I repeat that we consider it quite normal for these people to be judged where they have committed abuses. We have every confidence in our allies to keep them safe and secure. You are right to refer to the international context and the withdrawal decision taken by the Americans, which is likely to have an impact on this situation. In these circumstances, it is quite normal for the French government to work on different options. The "repatriation", which you refer to, is just one of these options, and indeed constitutes an expulsion rather than a repatriation. In short, we are working on all the options, and I would like to tell you that the option of expulsion is not relevant to this day. These people are currently detained in Syria and this situation remains as it is. But it is normal – and I regret the leaks found in the press – for the Government to work on the conditions under which evicted persons could be welcomed. I assure you that the 270 people who have already returned from Syria and Iraq have been the subject of almost all judicial proceedings and many of them are currently incarcerated. Those who have served their sentences are closely monitored by the intelligence services. Individuals who have chosen to go to Syria and Iraq to fight for jihad must take responsibility for their actions. Similarly, about 100 children have already returned to the national territory with their parents. They are placed as part of child welfare, usually as foster families. I repeat that expulsion is not relevant to this day, even if we are working on it. On the other hand, we are able to deal with the situation of these individuals. Should they return to their national territory, they would be subject to judicial proceedings and thus imprisoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u22	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u23	I conclude that you absolutely do not hear them depriving them of their nationality and permanently expel them from national territory. But the average sentence of the condemned "returners" is eight years, which means, and it is the lawyer who speaks to you, that in five years they will be again in the streets of our cities, after having committed horrific, truly barbaric abuses, where they have gone! It seems to me that the Government would do better to look at the means of permanently sending the people who committed these abuses out of our territory, rather than seeking to bring them back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u24	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to raise her question, No. 596, concerning the security of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u25	Three weeks ago, in this Chamber, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs Jean-Yves Le Drian assured us that security was the Government's top priority. But security is the first freedom, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior. How can you guarantee the security of the French when our security forces are constantly mobilized against yellow vests that your policy has pushed into the street, while they would be useful elsewhere? How can you guarantee the security of the French, when the municipal police officers, the first on the ground and whose action is decisive, have barely the prerogatives necessary to carry out their mission effectively? Unease is growing in the municipal police force. The feeling of being set aside, and of acting only in a straitjacket of servility, helps to maintain it. This same malaise leads the French to risk losing one eye every Saturday. How can you guarantee the security of the French when you bring 130 jihadists from the Middle East accompanied by their families, who are so many time bombs? You claim that these jihadists will be detained, but you are not a magistrate and can offer no guarantee of this detention. In January 2016, the Minister of the Interior, who was then a member of the Socialist majority, said that anyone who committed a terrorist crime of French nationality, whether binational or non-binational, should be allowed to disqualify. During the constitutional review that François Hollande wanted to allow this withdrawal, he supported it, commending its courage and consistency and stressing the importance of overcoming divisions when it comes to the general interest. Today, he claims that these people are French before being jihadists. But the French are 80% to consider, according to a February 2018 FIFG poll, that these jihadists must be tried and convicted on the spot. Ms.la Keeper of the Seals also told us that some 30 jihadists would be released on our streets in 2019. It does not seem that your policy is on the road to security. We must give ourselves the means of its ambitions. If yours really is the security of the French, act accordingly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u26	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u27	Your question, Madam Member, has several aspects. The movement of yellow vests has indeed mobilized a great deal of staff, especially on Saturdays, for public order management tasks. This has indeed diverted the staff of public security missions in those days – but only in those days. This movement is extremely violent and must be condemned. Let me point out that when you demonstrate peacefully, you will not lose an eye: you may lose an eye when you violently attack the law enforcement forces, when you want to invest institutions. The police always respond proportionately. The gunfire that has taken place is still proportional to extremely violent attacks. However, this crisis of yellow vests and these public order management operations, which often take place on Saturdays, do not prevent us, throughout the week, from deploying the daily security police and from being present throughout the national territory. It is also within the framework of the daily police that we work with the municipal police, which, far from being excluded from the security missions, are fully involved, but within the framework of the powers which are its own. The municipal police are not involved in the management of public order movements. It exercises its powers within its framework and in very close coordination with the law enforcement agencies – national police officers, gendarmes – within the framework of cooperation agreements which, in my opinion, work very well, as shown by the report of your colleagues Alice Thourot and Jean-Michel Fauvergue. We are looking at ways to better involve municipal police in action. With regard to the jihadists, I repeat that all of them are subject to judicial proceedings, most often for conspiracy of criminals with a view to a terrorist crime. Procedures are under way. I have had the pride and honour of leading the Directorate General of Internal Security – DGSI – one of these intelligence services responsible, among other things, for judicial proceedings concerning these jihadists. I confirm that they are all subject to legal proceedings. For you, we consider them French before being jihadists. This is not exactly the reality: they are French jihadists, and ensuring the security of the French is important to us. The dispersal of these individuals could have dramatic consequences for the security of the French. This is only a hypothesis at the moment, but we are obviously working on it. In any event, I confirm to you that if these individuals were to return to national territory, they would be immediately arrested and imprisoned. Some of them are already for prison sentences that are much longer than those cited by Mrs. Marine Le Pen. As for those who have served their sentences, I confirm that in 2019, 33 people convicted of terrorist acts will be released from detention. These individuals are followed by the intelligence services, including the one I had the honour to lead, who works on the top of the spectrum. You can imagine that no one is left in the wild.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u28	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u29	Thank you for your answer. I hope that the people who will be released will be closely followed. It is about the security of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u30	Mrs Graziella Melchior, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to her question No. 574 concerning the care of children with disabilities returning to their homes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u31	More than 9 million people in France are affected by a disability. According to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, States must facilitate the personal mobility of such persons at an affordable cost. I have been alerted about the negative consequences of the application, since October 1, 2018, of the decree of May 15, 2018, which aims to define the modalities of taking care of transport within a health facility or between two establishments. It states that the health facility must pay for the transportation expenses of hospitalized patients when they are carried out during a leave of absence. Exception is made for transportation "that corresponds to a patient's special requirements benefit". However, some convalescent or re-education institutions consider that return to home on weekends of children with disabilities is not a matter of therapeutic reasons but of special requirements. These establishments therefore refuse to pay for these transports, which are then left to the families. An example has been reported to me by the PC IMC 29 association, which defends and accompanies people with cerebral palsy or cerebral infirmity throughout Finistère. This is the case of Elio, an 11-year-old boy, who has been living with a polydisability since he was born. It is not the only one: there are 880 new cases of children affected each year, which may be affected by this issue. Many families do not have the financial means or equipment to allow their child to return home on weekends. Returning home is essential to the efficiency of the medical care of the child in a situation of polydisability and to the preservation of his or her balance of life. So, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to know your interpretation of the provisions of this decree, as well as the measures you are planning to take so that all adults and children in Elio's case can live and exist fully with their polydisability, in a society that wants to be inclusive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u32	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u33	Mrs Melchior, you know what my investment was for people with disabilities when I sat with you a few weeks ago. Like you, I had been seized of this issue by a number of people and associations. I would therefore like to thank you very much for your question, which will allow me, I hope, to reassure many parents. The so-called "Article 80" reform actually entered into force on 1 October 2018. As of that date, the transport costs directly covered by the health insurance have been transferred, as you said, to health facilities, in respect of journeys for patients hospitalized during their stay between two health facilities, but also for leave. This reform was the occasion for a return to the strict application of the rules laid down in the guide for the management of the costs of transport of patients, published by a ministerial circular of 27 June 2013. Thus, as you have pointed out, it is intended that the costs of transport of exit permits will be borne by health facilities, subject to the therapeutic nature of the exit or the need for the organisation of the hospital service. On the other hand, transport under the special requirements of patients remains at their charge. However, this transfer of care has brought to light the limits of this rule, which is particularly sensitive for certain categories of patients – I am thinking of the young boy you mentioned in the story. You are right, for children hospitalized over a long period of time, the weekly return to the family home, subject to medical advice of course, must be a right. The services of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health are currently working to ensure that the regulations on the care of health transport are rapidly changed: the aim is to grant the right to weekly care of a return journey to patients under 20 years of age hospitalized for periods of more than two weeks. That is the objective we are setting ourselves. The choice we make means that the financing of these transports will no longer be the responsibility of health care institutions, but directly of health insurance funds. The Ministry, and the Government as a whole with it, is counting on the mobilization of the entire health insurance network to allow access to this right for patients who will benefit as soon as possible from this change.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u34	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u35	Thank you, Secretary of State, for taking this request into consideration, which you already knew. I will see to it that this measure is applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u36	Mr Olivier Gaillard has the floor to put his question, No. 578, concerning the revision of the zoning of liberal doctors in the Gard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u37	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I would like to convey to you the deep concern shared by professionals, elected officials and patients about the persistence of the current zoning aimed at better access to general practitioners, whose method of development is a matter of concern. This zoning is, in many cases, incomprehensible, because it does not correspond to the realities observed on the scale of the wide territory of the Cevennes Gardoises, where rural medicine is literally endangered, like, unfortunately, public services. In these circumstances, it is surprising that the obligation to install is being invoked, so much as seems to be done to ensure that these pending territories are put into competition and that any activity is eliminated. When looking at the zoning method, one can only wonder about the relevance of the use by the 2015 data administration for national selection, as well as for estimating the regional share. In Piedmont Cévenol and the Cevennes Gardoises, a majority of municipalities are excluded from the priority rankings – and hence from the most incentive measures for installation. For what reason, for example, is the Alesian basin classified in the same way as Montpellier, whereas the nature of the medical supply and the needs are by no means comparable? In the same vein, the Gypsy country is only in a complementary zone, although this territory is very fragile in the short term. Its population is ageing, travel times are high, and the supply of care is strained by a demand that is growing as a result of ageing. The same can be said for areas such as Saint-Jean-du-Gard or Sauve. At the same time, other rural areas and neighbourhoods in the city's policy are ranked as priority intervention areas, while social and health inequalities are not higher. Added to this is the uncertain future of rural revitalization areas. The professionals and local elected representatives, however the first concerned, were placed before the fait accompli by the RSA – regional health agency. They were subjected to zoning designed according to criteria pre-established by the Agency, without having been associated with the choice of method. Will it be otherwise for the next zoning? Does the ministry really intend to involve actors in the field? Finally, do you intend to undertake a thorough revision of this methodology? Be assured that stakeholders unanimously call for it and that they will support you in this process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u39	Mr Gaillard, allow me to recall the general context of this question before referring more precisely to the territory of which you are elected. Important work has been undertaken to redesign the methodology to enable regional health agencies to better identify under-denses in the provision of care, where support for the installation and maintenance of doctors is mobilised. Between 2017 and 2018, each SRA revised its "regional physician zoning" according to this national methodology. This revision was necessary in order to be as close as possible to the reality of the territories. With this new methodology, the areas eligible for conventional aid now account for 18% of the national population, compared with 7% previously. The difficulties you mention nevertheless reflect a reality and have arisen in the same way in a number of regions. The new methodology must therefore reconcile the expression of national priorities, through a core indicator, "localized potential accessibility", and regional priorities, to reduce the inequalities in access to care that you know are at the heart of this government's thinking. Areas not included in zoning may benefit from other accompanying measures at local level, not linked this time to the criterion of fragility of the area. Furthermore, in order to make the best adjustments to the aid according to the need, the SRA may, under certain conditions, amend their regional order. Through this mechanism, it is a matter of both acting on the territories in difficulty and preventing the situations of medical desertification that you pointed out. With this methodology, 6.2% of the regional population in Occitanie is located in the priority intervention zone, and 36.9% in the complementary action zone. Finally, beyond the zoning system, the Government is committed to improving access to care by developing a range of solutions, adaptable to each local context, as the response to demographic difficulties is obviously not unique across the country. The strategy for the transformation of our My Health 2022 system, presented last September, whose upcoming bill is one of the translations, is intended to strengthen access to the physician through complementary measures such as the creation of positions of medical assistants, which will provide useful medical time, or the creation of 400 additional positions of general practitioners in the territories identified as priorities. Ultimately, all of these devices will increase the resources in general medicine, particularly in "underdenses" areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u40	Mr Olivier Gaillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u41	The Minister of Solidarity and Health had made it clear that she would put an end to the numerus clausus, while acknowledging very sincerely that the results would only be perceived within ten years. The health, social, digital and territorial divide is a reality. We are paying for decades of lack of land use planning. The feeling of living in a second area tends, gradually, to reflect a reality. That is why I believe it is important to stress this problem, which must be taken into account as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u42	I call Mr Fabien Lainé to speak on his question No 586 on activity pricing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u43	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I would like to ask you about activity pricing – T2A – for the financing of health facilities. The T2A allows each institution to report on its activity and, as a result, obtain funding. The Prime Minister announced a comprehensive reform of the health system and promised that new funding models would be introduced by the end of 2019. This is a good thing, because the hospitals' directorates are raising a real problem, which concerns the financing of resuscitation services. The director of the Mont-de-Marsan hospital, whom I have met on several occasions, asked me about the method of financing the missions of general interest and the services of resuscitation. At present, the State provides lump sum funding and an operating allocation for missions of general interest, while hospital services, including medical and surgical services, including resuscitation services, are funded through fee-for-service charges. While T2A is adapted to the operation of technical and standardised activities, resuscitation services are often in deficit even though they are managed efficiently. The detailed analysis of the expenditure of these services shows a deficit of 10 to 15 %, which justifies a reassessment of the daily resuscitation supplement. Is it possible for resuscitation services to be financed on a lump sum basis, so that their budgets, like those of missions of general interest, can be sanctified?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u44	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u45	Mr. Lainé, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health can only share your analysis of the inadequacy of the "all T2A" which has been able to prevail over the specificities of critical care units, the first of which is the resuscitation units. The activity of the critical care chain is characterised by the importance of the fixed costs incurred by these specialized units, in particular because of the standards of means, especially human resources, to which they are now subject, including when the activity varies. The current model of funding critical care activities leads to some of the expenses being covered by the T2A rates while another part is financed through the billing of specific lump sum supplements. These supplements are charged for each day the patient is taken care of in a specialized unit of resuscitation, intensive care or continuous supervision. This funding model, based entirely on the activity of the current year, does not allow a fully satisfactory response to the specificities of the critical care activity. That is why the Social Security Financing Act for 2017 provided, in its Article 79, for the development of this financing model towards a mixed model, combining activity financing and lump sum funding, as you called for, in order to stabilize the financing of these units. Such an evolution is also consistent with the guidelines of the plan Ma santé 2022 and the work entrusted to the mission of Jean-Marc Aubert on the reform of the funding models of the providers of care, whose report was submitted a few days ago to Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, and is currently the subject of a consultation within the ministry. With regard to critical care, this model development will have to be carried out in line with that of the authorisation system for these units, the reform of which is under construction with the actors of the specialties concerned. The objective is to review the authorisation decrees in the second half of 2019. It is at the end of all this work that we will have all the elements to support a change in the funding model for critical care units, in order to improve the consideration of the costs and specificities of these activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u46	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u47	I am satisfied with your answer, Secretary of State. We will be vigilant about the follow-up and results of the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u48	Mrs Mette has the floor to raise her question, No. 588, concerning the generalisation of telemedicine and the commitment of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u49	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, after ten years of experimentation, the Government has committed itself to generalizing telemedicine in France. Its deployment is a key issue for improving the organization of the health system and ensuring access to care for all across the country. I sent letters to the Minister of Solidarity and Health in August and October 2018 about the creation of a telemedicine foundation, a real opportunity for the territories. It is hosted by the Bordeaux University Foundation, whose aim is to advance medical and economic research on this topic. It must be noted that this university research would be an indisputable asset in assessing the impact of telemedicine in France and rationalizing its deployment. Is there any support for sharing databases with university researchers? Will other strong measures be taken to support and support this excellence initiative, including financially?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u50	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u51	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which gives me the opportunity to highlight with you the major opportunity that telemedicine represents for the organisation of our health care system. Indeed, any initiative aimed at promoting the training of health professionals and research must be promoted in order to enable these innovative organisations, including the Bordeaux organization you mentioned, to set up themselves and France to become a leader in this field. The Government has allowed an unprecedented acceleration of the deployment of telemedicine, with the entry in 2018 into the common law of the pricing of teleconsultation and tele-expertise acts. We now wish to encourage the appropriation of new telemedicine tools in hospitals. It has been integrated into the national guidelines for the continuous professional development of health actors for 2019. In terms of research, since this is the heart of your question, the ministry has been leading research team funding programs through national calls for projects for many years. I am thinking in particular of the programme of medical and economic research – PRME – which aims to assess the efficiency of health technologies, and the programme on the performance of the care system – PREPS – which evaluates professional organisations improving the quality of care and practices. These programs already fund telemedicine research in many areas of health: more than a dozen telehealth projects have been funded in this framework since their inception. In 2018, for example, a project on telerehabilitation after acute coronary syndrome was selected for funding under the PREPS, while in 2017, a project on the medico-economic evaluation of oral tele-expertise in residential institutions for dependent seniors – EHPAD – was selected for funding under the PRME. As you can see, many measures are already being implemented. We will continue our efforts to deploy telemedicine organizations and promote patient access to this important innovation for the organization of our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u52	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u53	Thank you for that answer, Secretary of State. However, I would like to point out that this foundation is working on two major projects with direct partners in the department, such as the Health Data Hub. However, requested by them, this foundation does not have the means to respond to all their demands, for the reasons expressed and because it suffers from a lack of legitimacy in the territory. But this foundation is widely recognized in the world, and it is in fact only in France that everything blocks. Mr. Secretary of State, could the Government assist in helping and legitimizing this foundation in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u54	Mrs Lemoine has the floor to raise her question, No. 595, concerning the age limit and the extension of the activity of hospital practitioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u55	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, I would like to draw your attention to the application of section 138 of the Public Health Policy Act of 9 August 2004. In its current version, this article sets the age limit for physicians and nurses at 72 years of age in public health institutions. However, when the Social Security Financing Bill for 2017 was considered, the adoption of an amendment made it possible to relax this rule, by providing for different modalities to derogate from it. It was possible for practitioners over 72 years of age to continue working two half days a week under a renewable annual contract, subject to their physical and mental fitness and the favourable opinion of the chairman of the medical committee of the institution, the head of the centre and the head of the department concerned. In territories marked by medical desertification, this measure was particularly appropriate. It allowed, among other things, our hospitals to continue to benefit from the skills and expertise developed by practitioners, including university hospitals, who had become referents in their fields. However, the Constitutional Council censored this provision, which was inserted in Article 85 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2017, considering in its Decision No 2016-742 of 22 December 2016 that it had an overly indirect effect on the expenditure of the basic compulsory schemes or bodies contributing to its financing. Elected from a rural district concerned with medical desertification and sensitive to the preservation of the quality of care provided to our citizens, I would like to know what actions you intend to take, particularly in the context of the draft law on the organisation and transformation of the health system, to reintroduce this common sense measure into the code of public health and thus help to relieve many health facilities in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u56	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u57	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question, which allows me to take stock of the conditions under which health care practitioners may be allowed to extend their activity beyond the age limit applicable to them. This is the result of the application of the January 26, 2016 law to modernize our health care system. It is common law at 67 years of age, transitionally extended to 70 years for hospital practitioners and 72 years for cumulative employment-retirement practitioners, until 31 December 2022. Practitioners with a job and their retirement therefore already have, under certain conditions, the possibility of exercising five years beyond the statutory retirement age. The Government is, of course, experiencing the difficulties of attracting medical practice in some of our territories, especially in rural areas, such as yours. However, let me make it clear that the provision of the 2017 Social Security Financing Bill to which you referred and which has indeed been censored by the Constitutional Council has in fact never been implemented. We do not think it desirable to go beyond what is already allowed to postpone retirement. We make other choices: As part of the My Health 2022 plan, the diversification of the functions and practice frameworks of hospital practitioners will be encouraged – this is one of our responses to the issues of territorial desertification. By creating a unique status as a hospital practitioner, it is planned to strengthen the attractiveness of hospital careers and facilitate shared exercises. Career paths will be better accompanied by access to a variety of functions, including teaching and research, as well as mixed practice frameworks between public hospital activities and liberal practice, with a view to remedying, in particular, the difficulty of accessing the care you pointed out in your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u58	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u59	Thank you for your answer and will be particularly attentive to this question when considering the future health bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u60	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to raise her question, No. 590, concerning the situation at Moze hospital in Ardèche.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u61	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, our department of the Ardèche is not easily located. Movements in the second district, located in the north of the department and extending from the Rhône valley to the boundaries of the Drôme, Loire and Isère, are particularly demanding. Access to health care and health care is a major issue, determining the socio-economic stability of this territory and its attractiveness. You know the delicate situation of Moze Hospital: we are all very attached to the life of this institution, which remains absolutely essential for the inhabitants of the basin. He has developed partnerships with the hospital centres of Annonay, Saint-Étienne, Puy-en-Velay or Firminy, all located more than 45 minutes away by car. The various renovations, in 1973, 1979 and then 2000, improved the daily life but did not allow to keep up with the changing needs and the medical activity, nor sufficiently modernise the structure. Today, the working conditions of employees, as well as those of patients and residents, are inadequate and make it very difficult for everyone to work on a daily basis. Following the closure of the surgical service in 2004 and the maternity service in 2008, Moze Hospital faced major financial difficulties that threatened its future. In order to avoid the closure of this facility and to preserve access to care for all, the hospital managers proposed to the health authorities to create a health cooperation group – GCS. This decision allowed the two health facilities in Moze and the Genêts to pool their management and part of their staff, thereby reducing operating costs. Within the framework of this GCS, Moze Hospital had an eight-bed medical service, a follow-up care and rehabilitation service – SSR – of eight beds, an accommodation facility for dependent seniors – EHPAD – of eighty beds, a perinatal centre of proximity and an advanced counselling service. At the same time, the Genêts had a 24-bed SSR and a 44-bed EHPAD. Today, after the management team's commitment to a return to balance by the end of 2019, the institution wants to commit itself to a renovation project necessary for its sustainability of about 15 million euros, for which the board of directors and management are actively seeking funding. It is crucial in a policy of support for our rural territories, as the Government has indicated in its health plan. In addition, the teams are engaged in a broad collaborative project, which takes into account new strategies for quality of care and a new cross-cutting health path to the service of the patient. I would also like to know what the Government intends to give as a response to this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u62	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u63	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question about the private non-profit hospital in Moze in Saint-Agrève, which we know well and which is in fact a medical-social health facility with a dominant focus on community health needs – medicine, SSR, EHPAD. It is also a perinatal community centre and an unscheduled care centre for a population of about 20,000 inhabitants in a rural area, with a low population density and at the borders of the department of Ardèche and Haute-Loire. Aware of the issues of accessibility to medical and social care and structures, the Director General of the regional health agency – ARS – Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes received the governance of the institution at the end of 2018 to take stock of the situation on the institution's renovation project. On this occasion, the ARS agreed on the principle of a EUR 1.5 million aid for the renovation of the health part of the establishment – that of the medico-social part is disconnected and depends on the position of the departmental council of the Ardèche. Currently, the institution's management needs to finalize its investment project with a precise calibration of its scope. I also note that the cash flow of the Moze hospital has been able to count on strong support from the ARS over the last three years, amounting to 830000 euros. At the same time, the management of the institution has taken efficiency measures, which you mentioned. Aware of the proximity issues, the RSA wishes to financially support the establishment for the operation of the unscheduled care centre this year. This will strengthen the local response to the health needs of the facility, whose services are largely part of the upcoming definition of community hospitals in the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system. This coherent set of support and support measures should enable the establishment to sustain medical recruitment in an area where, as you have pointed out, the problem of setting up doctors remains very sensitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u64	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u65	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. I stress that the EUR 1.5 million aid that the ARS has committed to provide is obviously not enough. In a territory where it is still snowing in May, and even in the case of a private hospital, as you recalled, it is necessary for the State to commit itself as much as it can.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u66	Mr Joaquim Pueyo, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 591, on the claims of home helpers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u67	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Solidarity and Health to the worrying situation of home helpers, and in particular to the resources allocated to their remuneration. It is essential to give seniors the help they need as long as they can stay in their homes, in order to ensure their autonomy. As the French population ages, the issue of supply and demand for home help will be increasingly pressing. By 2050, 22 million people will be over 60 years of age. They will account for 32 per cent of the French population, compared with 12.6 million in 2005, an increase of 80 per cent over 45 years. France will have to cope with a very strong increase in demand. To respond, an increase in the number of home helpers will have to be encouraged. However, these people face complex situations, requiring concrete answers. As has been repeatedly pointed out by associations such as the ADMR – Aide à domicile en milieu rural – or the UNA – Union nationale de l'aide, des soins et des services au domiciles –, homeworkers receive an average monthly wage slightly less than 1000 euros – exactly 972 euros. Their pay is very low due to a limited number of hours of work and a fragmented schedule, despite the increase in the number of interventions. In addition, they suffer from a mobility problem, especially in rural areas – this is the case in the Orne department, where I am elected. Indeed, several journeys made during a day are neither compensated nor deducted from their working time. Given today's demand and foreseeable developments over the coming decades, the question of recruitment and thus the attractiveness of these professions seems crucial to me. There is an urgent need to take action to ensure that these personnel are provided with sufficient resources, but also to address technical gaps, such as those on uncompensated journeys. According to the associations, several hundred million euros have to be invested in order to resolve the situation. It's up to the department to play this role, I'll be told. However, they cannot provide the necessary funds. I therefore believe that they should be supported by the State services. Regional health agencies could play such a supportive and coordinating role. What are the avenues for reflection envisaged – I know that this is a complex subject, which is not directly within the jurisdiction of the state – in order to alleviate the very concrete concerns of these personnel, whose commitment to our elders must be recognized to its full value? It seems to me to be a topical issue, which will weigh heavily on the future of the accompaniment of our seniors, who rightly wish to remain as much as possible in their place of residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u70	Mr. Pueyo, you have kindly drawn the Government's attention to the legitimate concerns of professionals accompanying elderly people who have lost their autonomy at home. I'll answer you in three steps. First of all, but as you pointed out, the public authorities do not have the power to intervene in collective bargaining between employers' and employees' representative organisations. However, they accompany the dynamics of these negotiations by setting an annual rate of increase in the wage bill of the non-profit private social and medico-social sector compatible with the balance of our public finances. In this context, with regard to the remuneration of these staff, the Minister for Solidarity and Health approved Amendment No 36 to the collective agreement for home help in June in order to better take into account the time and travel costs of staff whose interventions require discontinuous working hours and travel during the day. We are well aware of the problem that you are raising, Mr. Pueyo. Furthermore, aware that one of the obstacles to the attractiveness of these professions lies in part in the difficulties of its exercise, the Minister also entrusted the Directorate-General for Social Cohesion with the task of defining and implementing concrete actions aimed at improving the quality of working life of home help professionals. This mission is part of the work – in the process of finalisation – of a commission on the quality of work life in home services launched in September 2018. Finally, within the framework of the old age and autonomy concertation inaugurated on 1 October last, a more comprehensive reflection on the professions of the old age, in particular that of home help, is under way. This work aims to build a comprehensive and adapted response to the problems of professionals providing daily support to people who are losing their autonomy because of their age or disability. This reflection will lead to concrete proposals, in principle at the end of the first half of 2019, in order to define the contours of an ambitious reform that will be the subject of a bill on dependency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u71	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u72	I will pay attention to the development of this bill. I have signed up, which should please you, Secretary of State, for the great national debate. I am attending many meetings last night in my constituency, and I am organizing two meetings with many parliamentarians. However, this topic of support for older persons and persons with disabilities, within the framework of specialized institutions or at home, is regularly mentioned. This topic is essential for decades to come. The bill announced is timely. We will be very attentive to that. I hope I can make a positive contribution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u73	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to raise her question, No 592, on the certification of medical devices and shortages of medicines.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u74	I'll ask you two questions. The first concerns the certification of medical devices. Before they are placed on the market, they are subject to the CE marking, and this is quite normal, in order to ensure that they comply with European health and safety requirements. The certification shall be established for five years by a body notified by the European Commission. As French organisations no longer have enough slots to certify the products of French companies, many SMEs – those with small markets – are forced to use certifying bodies located outside France, in another EU country. However, there has been a significant delay in certification and some have warned French SMEs that they will no longer certify their products. As a result, they will no longer be able to place their products on the market – screws used in orthopaedics for example. Some will be forced to put the key under the door, because they will not be able to sell their products already certified but whose certification will not have been renewed. Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like you to tell me how many French SMEs are obliged to apply for their certification from organisations based outside France, and how many are facing a non-receivable purpose because they can no longer sell their products. Can the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products – ANSM – act, for example by taking over from these bodies, at least for a transitional period, in order to ensure continuity between the initial certification and the next one that is waiting? My second question concerns drug shortages, which seem to me to be a crucial problem. I was first elected in 2012 and during the previous quinquennium, I never heard of a shortage of medicines. In recent months, I have received many letters on this subject. I would therefore like to know the number of medicines that are out of stock, whether they are confined to a few territories or cover the whole of France, and, above all, what action the Government has taken to remedy them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u75	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u76	[[Smile]] Two questions, two answers: the first about the notified bodies and their competence, the second about the shortage of medicines, which are the subject of numerous letters but perhaps also numerous evocations in debates in which you may be involved like your colleague Pueyo, Mrs Rabault. The competence of notified bodies to assess the conformity of medical devices with essential health requirements is a concern of all health authorities in the European Union. There is only one notified body in France, the GMED. ANSM has already mobilised to ensure its effective evaluation in the light of the new European requirements, with a view to its notification. However, it remains essential that the demands of industrialists, in particular French, be met. This is not the case. In the framework of the last Health Industries Strategic Council, chaired by the Prime Minister at the end of 2018, a call for expressions of interest was launched, in order to address this situation and to encourage a new French body to apply for the notification procedure. While it seems difficult for a certification body to apply in a timely manner and to meet the enhanced European requirements, given the necessary skills and time, there is nothing to prevent other conformity assessment bodies from being notified in the medium term, and we are working in this direction. As far as drug shortages are concerned, I will try to be precise. For several years, the drug distribution system has been regularly affected by dysfunctions resulting in drug supply disruptions. These recurring difficulties are not unique to the French health care system and concern an increasing number of countries in the European Union. The causes of stock ruptures are multifactorial. In any event, it must be recognized that the number of ruptures or risks of stock failure has increased significantly. The figures are eloquent: according to ANSM, the number has been multiplied ten times in five years! There were 44 reports of stock failure in 2008, and 453 in 2013. In 2018, the ANSM identified 868 reports of stock failure. We have analysed with great attention the proposals made in the report of the Senate fact-finding mission on the shortage of medicines and vaccines – which are also concerned – published last October. I invite you to consult him if you have not already done so. On this basis, we have begun work. An action plan to strengthen the capacity to combat stock disruptions is expected to be announced in the near future. It will follow three main lines: restoring confidence between the players in the pharmaceutical chain and the users; develop inter-ministerial expertise to prevent ruptures; strengthen national coordination and European cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u77	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u78	With regard to the certification of medical devices, Mr. Secretary of State, you have only spoken of a long-term solution. But what can be done today for the blocked SMEs, who will have to lay off if they cannot sell their products?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u79	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor to put his question, No. 576, on mobility in the northern territories of the department of Saône-et-Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u80	I will ask two questions on one and the same subject, that of mobility in the territories of the north of the Saône and Loire. The Centre Europe Atlantic Railway, including its section joining Chagny and Nevers, is one of the Government's priorities, in line with the conclusions of the work of the Infrastructure Guidance Board. This key project concerns freight as well as passenger traffic, and 240 million euros are spent on it in the State-region plan contract. The works should allow the rescue and rehabilitation of the line, which is in great need of it, and its electrification if necessary. I would like more details on this, including confirmation of the financial resources and the timetable for carrying out this important investment, since the development of freight on this line will help to decongest traffic in the Paris region. Moreover, the new speed limit applicable on departmental roads without a central separator places the hospital centre of the Creusot more than forty minutes away from that of Autun, which is already the hospital structure for the reception of half of the Morvan massif for emergencies and maternity, and also plays the role of cooperation between public and private. As a result, the hospital in Autun now meets the criteria for the status of an isolated hospital, as a result of which it should be provided with additional resources. This relative isolation leads to heavy mobility burdens and constraints for access to health care and services. For example, I would like to know whether the application for recognition of the isolated hospital status of the hospital in Autun has been examined, or reconsidered in the light of these new data, and whether it can be completed in the light of its particular situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u81	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u82	Mr President, I shall concentrate on your second question. The eligibility of a hospital institution for the lump sum granted in case of isolated activity in the field of obstetrics is determined on the basis of four criteria, two of which are based on the presence of a similar activity within a radius of 45 minutes: an activity of less than 10000 stays within a radius of 45 minutes, net of the activity of the institution; a distance from another institution performing the same obstetric activity at more than 45 minutes. The new speed limitation at 80 kilometres per hour on departmental roads has a minimal impact on a journey of about 30 kilometres. Thus, the hospital in Autun remains located less than forty-five minutes from the Hôtel-Dieu du Creusot and does not meet two of the four criteria of isolated activity. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the hospital in Autun is receiving significant aid: annual support from the regional health agency of almost 1 million euros, including 400,000 euros in operation and nearly 600,000 in investment, and regular national aid amounting to 2 million euros last year. I know your investment in access to care in your territory, thank you, and I can only confirm the vigilance and support of the State in these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u83	Mrs Fabre, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question No. 569 on the role of women in digital technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u84	The RoboCup is now an annual meeting of 450 teams from 45 countries, 3500 participants and 40,000 visitors. Its benefits are estimated, according to the years, to be 7 to 15 million euros in six days of competition. This is the world's largest robotics and artificial intelligence competition. France was selected for the next competition in Bordeaux in 2020. The aim is to stimulate French robotics and its related disciplines through research and innovation, and to foster vocations. Women are too few in the digital and robotic industries, which are nevertheless essential sectors of the current and future economy. On average, there are approximately 15 per cent of girls in schools and training institutions in the digital field. Why are we depriving ourselves of half our talents? The economic and competitiveness stakes associated with the equal opportunities approach are no longer to be demonstrated, and mix is essential for the successful development of the use of technologies. The sectoral digital mix plan was concluded by the Government with stakeholders in the sector for a period of five years. Mixing must now come urgently, and we must be aware of it. Catherine Smadja-Froguel's report, submitted on February 20, 2018, raises the question of whether women will miss the opportunity of the digital transition. For now, that is already the case, and France is late. Worse still, the gap is widening: while the share of women in scientific and technical training at the bachelor and master level has increased by 4 per cent worldwide over the past 10 years, from 30 per cent to 34 per cent, it has decreased by 3 per cent in France, from 30 per cent to 27 per cent. Minister, given the challenges that the RoboCup represents for France and in a context of rapid digital transition, what means are used to attract women to the digital, robotic and artificial intelligence fields?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u85	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u86	Madam Member of Parliament, the Government is pleased that Bordeaux was selected to host the international RoboCup competition in 2020, after Montreal in 2018 and Sydney this year. This choice is a recognition of the territory of which you are elected, and more broadly of the quality of the French "tech" ecosystem in robotics and artificial intelligence. You are right to point out that there are still too few women in the digital professions. The Robocup and the International Conference on Robotics and Automation to be held in Paris also in 2020 will provide opportunities to raise awareness among the general public and the players in the ecosystem, including researchers and business leaders, of the issues of equality between women and men and the need for the feminization of sectors of activity related to digital technology. As has been noted abroad, the promotion of interest, practice and knowledge of robotics-related sciences among young people, for example through the RoboCup Junior, attracts young girls to the professions concerned. The Government shares your conviction that diversity is both a guarantee of social justice and economic performance. This is why French Tech is also committed to the diversity and therefore to the feminization of the digital professions. After experimenting with an effort to accompany thirty-five diversity entrepreneurs in Île-de-France, 60% of whom are women, French Tech is now implementing a broader programme to empower everyone, regardless of their age, origin or background, to join the Tech ecosystem. If the feminization of the digital professions is not its exclusive objective, this program, entitled French Tech Spring, will certainly contribute to it. The actions provided for in this framework will be financed to the tune of EUR 15 million from the investment programme for the future. Three types of actions will be carried out. First of all, a series of awareness-raising actions to promote the discovery of tech entrepreneurship and its trades throughout France will be launched from spring 2019. Secondly, it is planned to accompany 500 people to the creation of start-ups, with a six-month mentorship; Applications to participate in the first promotion will be open before the summer. Finally, the French Tech will launch a consultation on the recruitment needs of start-ups, and eventually a platform will facilitate the linking of start-ups, diversity talents and available training. Since 2011, Industry Week has helped strengthen the attractiveness of the sector, particularly among young people. It also promotes the mix of trades and the position of women in the industry. In 2018, more than 550 actions among the 2900 events labeled focused on the diversity and mix of trades. Under the high patronage of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the "InnovaTech Challenge", organized by the association "Elles mouvent" in partnership with the general management of companies, aims at the same objective: to promote mix in industrial and technological enterprises by informing young girls about their trades from an early age. Organised in several regions of France, this intergenerational competition brings together teams composed of young high school girls and women engineers or technicians in industry and technology to imagine together the innovations of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u87	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u88	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u89	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor to put her question, No. 587, concerning the situation of the prison in Grenoble-Varces.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u90	Madame la Garde des Seales, in July 2018, France had reached an unprecedented rate of detention since the 19th century, with 70,710 people detained in its prisons. Our prisons are overcrowded and outdated, prisoners are not welcomed in dignity and officers work in difficult conditions. If this is the result of the total lack of political will of the previous governments, I know, Madam Minister, how much attention you have paid to this as soon as you take office. Today I wish to warn you about the situation of the prison in Grenoble-Varces, in Isère, my department. The International Prison Observatory had recently issued a communiqué on the conditions of detention in that prison. I visited the site in January 2018, following the assault of two of the centre's supervisors, and I was indeed able to see the existence of significant dysfunctions. This institution is experiencing recurring understaffing difficulties, particularly as a result of the excessive number of inmates compared to its actual reception capacity. The disciplinary district and the walking court are also not in compliance with the standards in force. There was an urgent need to find solutions to improve conditions of detention, such as the working conditions of staff. The institution's old age has been denounced for many years, although important work is currently under way. As part of the prison plan, a 120-seat escort to the exit – SAS – is planned. This would be an effective solution to reduce the overpopulation of the site and to adapt the detention regime to different profiles. However, to date no land would be available in Grenoble to host this project. How could an appropriate place be found? How can the conditions of detention and the working conditions of staff – both in terms of training and specialization – be improved in practice? In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the Registry staff, whose status as an administrative officer makes it impossible to recover or pay overtime.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u91	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u92	Madam Member, you are quoting the figures of the overcrowding of the prison in Grenoble-Varces: they are not good, that is true. As of February 8, 2019, the number of inmates housed is 368, representing an overpopulation rate of 156%. In order to avoid chronic overoccupation, it is agreed that when the occupancy rate of the detention facility reaches 150%, the institution will provide a list of persons who may be reassigned to other institutions. In 2018, the prison administration made 86 transfers to other institutions of the Interregional Directorate. You rightly recalled, Madam Member, that overoccupation has accelerated the deterioration of the facility, but the very design of the building is no longer in line with current standards. However, efforts have been made to improve the situation and strengthen maintenance capacities. The reinforcements provided provide sufficient technical staff to carry out routine maintenance and repairs as a result of the damage. The prison population is itself involved in the maintenance of the prison. We have thus trained painters to paint the area of the parlors; A similar intervention is planned this year for cells. Currently, the minors' quarters and the fourth floor of detention are being repainted by auxiliaries. Other examples could still be cited. In addition, work is regularly scheduled. The renovation of the running water system is planned for 2019. As for the electrical system, it was brought into conformity following the visit of the fire safety committee. The cells of the disciplinary district, completely repainted in 2016, were renovated during a global operation aimed at showers. The renovation of the courses, which you mentioned, particularly within the disciplinary district, is under consideration, in order to offer opportunities for outdoor walks, in an atypical and complex architectural context due to high-rise construction. In addition, as you pointed out, we are continuing the project of creating in the Grenoblais agglomeration a support structure towards the exit of a capacity of 120 places. This SAS will offer new opportunities for the execution of short sentences or the remainder of sentences of less than two years, within an environment that, as we wish, will allow for active reintegration. However, the land that has been identified so far has not been successful, due to the area's mandatory topography and reduced land availability. In these circumstances, I would like to see close consultation with the elected representatives in order to examine the proposals that may be made by the State authorities in order to accommodate this structure, which, as you know, is a key part of the sentencing policy that I intend to put in place. I know, Madam Member, I can count on your support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u93	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u94	Minister, I have also spoken of the administrative officers working in the registries, who cannot recover or be paid for overtime that they perform. This subject is of crucial importance in Grenoble.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u95	Mr Cazenove has the floor to put his question, No. 568, on agrivoltaic projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u96	My question is addressed to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, but I am sure that the Minister responsible for Transport will be able to answer it perfectly! For the past twenty months, the Government has been acting decisively in environmental matters, having provided the Ministry with a budget of 34 billion euros for 2019, an increase of 1 billion, which will allow it to continue to support green innovation. On November 8, 2018, one of the world's first agrivoltaic devices was inaugurated in my constituency. This project to plant vines under mobile photovoltaic panels, piloted from a distance, is located in Tresserre, in the Pyrénées-Orientales, on a plot of 5 hectares. It takes the form of an shade of 7850 photovoltaic panels, located more than 4 meters high and can rotate on demand. In technical collaboration with the Chamber of Agriculture of the Pyrénées-Orientales, other projects of agrivoltaic demonstrators were presented in response to the last call for tenders of the Energy Regulatory Commission, but they were not retained, despite their excellent results in terms of innovation. However, there are many advantages to this concept. In fact, the pilots covering arboreal market gardening products allow us to compare dynamic agrivoltaic technologies and fixed photovoltaics in very short periods of time. In addition, this system, beyond the production of solar electricity, aims to improve agricultural yields by saving water, in particular, in order to control water consumption. The farmer will be able to regulate the sun and shade needs of the plant by means of energy-producing panels, giving priority to vegetation protected from climatic hazards in the event of excessive heat or hail. A weather station is also present on the site. These innovative flexible coverage projects are therefore of real interest to our territory. Does the Government intend to take steps to promote the emergence of such new projects?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u97	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u98	Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, cannot be present. He asked me to answer you. The Government has indeed committed itself to an unprecedented development of electric renewable energy, while taking into account in a stronger way environmental issues and the integration of renewable energy into their environment, in order to avoid possible conflicts of use. Innovation will be one of the keys to achieving the ambitious objectives of the multi-year energy programming project on solar energy. In order to develop this innovation, and following discussions with stakeholders in the framework of the working group on solar energy chaired by Sébastien Lecornu in early 2018, the Government has committed itself to doubling the volume of the call for proposals for the development of innovative solar projects. A new specification will be published shortly, which will allow the development of 140 megawatts of innovative solar projects per period. This invitation to tender, which relates in particular to agrivoltaic projects, will provide an opportunity for the development of projects to reconcile agricultural production and electricity production. In parallel with this call for tenders, the Government is supporting innovation in this type of project through investment in the future. In particular, agrivoltaic projects developed by Sun'R have already been supported, with Sun'Agri 3 in particular being granted €6.8 million in aid for a total investment of 15.1 million. In order to find the right balance between the development of photovoltaics and the maintenance of an agricultural activity, a working group has been set up between the departments of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition and those of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Peasant Confederation, the National Federation of Agricultural Operators' Unions and the Chambers of Agriculture, in order to draw up a feedback on the various agricultural projects developed and to identify solar projects allowing for a real continuation of agricultural activity. All these measures will, I am sure, lead to the emergence of projects similar to those proposed by Sun'R, which combine energy transition, innovation and agricultural development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u99	Mr Sebastien Cazenove has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u100	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u101	Mr Bertrand Sorre, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 575, concerning the eradication of Asian hornets.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u102	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. Since their first appearance in 2004, Asian hornets have proliferated throughout France and in other European countries. For the year 2018, in my only department of the English Channel, the departmental federation of pest protection groups – FDGDON – has located 5898 nests, or 1 nest per square kilometre on average, or nearly 2000 nests more than in 2017. Urbanized agglomerations and coastal areas remain the most affected, up to a density of 17 nests per square kilometre, the highest known in the same municipality. Today, with the support of the departmental council of the English Channel, 91% of the communes in the department signed the collective struggle agreement with the FDGDON. Thus, 4347 nests were destroyed by collective struggle and according to the departmental protocol. The investment of departmental councils on this subject, however, is not the same everywhere in France, so much so. This proliferation is more worrying every year, in many ways. This is on the one hand a public health issue, because the bite of the Asian frelon can be dangerous or even fatal to man. In recent months, in the Department of the English Channel, 310 victims of sting attacks and two by venom projection in the eyes, as well as one death and four anaphylactic shocks have been recorded. On the other hand, since bees are a preferred food source for hornets, bee impacts were considerable in 2018. We found a stress situation for bees, a decrease in honey production and loss of hives. The hornets are also harmful to biodiversity, as they feed on many pollinating insects. In addition, impacts on fish are sometimes reported on market stalls. In 2018, Asian hornets were also reported for the first time on a shellfish workshop. In order to combat this threat, laws and regulations have already been adopted at national and extra-Community level. In particular, Asian frelon has been classified as second category pests, for which, according to the Rural Code, "it may be necessary, for the purpose of collective interest, to implement measures of prevention, surveillance or control". In 2017, in a report on the national strategy for invasive alien species, the Ministry of the Environment advocated national mechanisms to respond to the invasion of Asian hornets. In fact, however, the resources allocated to control these insects are very different in different regions and departments. In my view, it is time to re-qualify Asian hornets as first-class pests, so that a real network of competent actors, with appropriate means, can automatically set up and destroy nest departures. This scourge affects all of France, and even if the FDGDON 50 is doing remarkable work, the State must seize the problem so that action is the same throughout the national territory. An Asian frelon, you know, doesn't stop at the limits of a department! Does the Government intend to adopt a genuine national strategy to combat Asian hornets, to harmonize the fight on the territory, to develop the means of combating the least harmful to the environment and biodiversity and finally to ensure sustainable financing, in order to facilitate an effective collective struggle?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u103	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u104	Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, cannot be present. He asked me to answer you. As you will recall, the Asian frelon is an invasive exotic species, which causes various difficulties. Regrettably, there are deaths associated with stinging, and if there is a suspected impact on local biodiversity, which is yet to be documented, the impact of this species is mainly on domestic bee populations, which are easy prey for this predator. For example, this species has been classified by the Ministry of Agriculture as a second category health hazard because of its impact on beekeeping. With Didier Guillaume, minister in charge of this policy, François de Rugy announced earlier this month the establishment of a working group to strengthen the protection measures for bees and other pollinating insects, particularly with regard to the plant protection products used. The Asian frelon has also been classified by these two ministries as an invasive alien species of concern. Since its arrival 15 years ago, this species has colonized almost all metropolitan territory. Given its range, its speed of spread and the lack of effective means of control, it must be noted that the objective of eradication in our territory is no longer achievable. Public funding for the management of invasive alien species must be targeted towards efficient operations. For example, regional strategies for invasive alien species are designed to identify areas of intervention that are selective according to the species and spaces considered. These strategies need to be jointly defined by government departments and operators with the regions, the community leader in biodiversity issues, in order to best target all public resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u105	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u106	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. National pilotage is necessary, as the degree of ownership of this problem varies widely across the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u107	Mr Damien Abad has the floor to put his question, No. 579, on the saturation of waste storage centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u108	I would like to address you, the Minister responsible for transport, as well as the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Ms Brune Poirson, Secretary of State to the Minister of State, and all the other members of the Government: stop at plastic bashing! Stop these images of Epinal plastic tips floating in the ocean! This situation is not the responsibility of European countries, which account for only 2% of global waste. Stop also to those who have not understood that plastic can be innovative, recycled and, of course, recyclable. Whether it's the Egalim Act or the Energy Transition Act, it's the same thing every time: one attacks plastic, without looking at the jobs that this sector represents, or the benefits of plastic as such. I am thinking of food safety, the medical, aeronautical, automotive, cosmetic and other sectors that need the plastic industries. In Ain, at the heart of my constituency, we manufacture innovative, non-polluting plastics in the Plastics Vallée and transform the environmental constraint into an asset. Examples include the Triveo and Ain Fibres companies. However, public policies need to support the sector and enable smart waste management. As regards collection, in particular, progress is expected in extending the gradually implemented sorting guidelines to improve the value of waste and to give new life to recycled packaging. Recycling, at the heart of the circular economy, provides direct and indirect jobs. Rather than relaying clichés on plastic, let us tackle the real stakes, and first of all that of recycling waste. Only 22.2% of plastics produced and consumed in France are actually reused. In addition, with a view to implementing the landfill reduction targets of 30% by 2020 and half by 2025, contained in the Energy Transition Act, efforts are now under way to reduce the administrative allocation to storage facilities. What does that mean? That no alternative waste recovery solution has been proposed, especially for so-called ultimate waste – those that can no longer be stored – even though there is an increase in the quantity of waste. This overall increase is linked to the economic recovery, but also to the closure of the Chinese borders to certain waste – knowing that of the approximately 900000 tonnes of French plastic waste, 170000 are sent to China each year – the car conversion premium and the import of recoverable waste. Minister, is the government going to increase the quota of waste stored and implement a real strategy for the entire industry before the situation worsens in 2019? If this is not the case, there will be places in France, such as in the Plastics Vallée, where waste can no longer be stored.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u109	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u110	Member of the European Parliament, the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, cannot be present, has instructed me to reply on his behalf. While storage capacity in the majority of French territory covered the needs without difficulty in 2018, about half of the metropolitan areas, however, faced a slight saturation of their landfills at the end of the year. This is due to many factors. First of all, the objectives laid down in the law to reduce the quantity of waste to be landfilled are not yet sufficiently realized in practice within each of our regions. Secondly, the closure of the Chinese borders to certain sorted waste may have led to some postponements to the exits available in France. Finally, the economic situation, more favourable in 2018, led to an increase in the production of household waste. However, the regions most affected by saturation are structurally undercapacity due to the lack of waste management facility projects. In response to this situation, the Government implemented in April 2018 a strategy defined by the road map for the circular economy and based on preventive measures – consumer information, combating food waste – aimed at reducing the volume of waste produced, on accelerating the deployment of sorting at source and the recovery of waste – extending sorting instructions to all packaging, new sectors with extended producer responsibility – and finally on a comprehensive reform of waste taxation in order to make their recycling economically more attractive than their disposal. Beyond these actions, landfill controls will be strengthened. It is unacceptable that objects which may be re-used or recycled should be landfilled. The State will not hesitate to sanction such behaviour. But it is important that all actors, be they communities, economic actors or waste-processing operators, invest themselves to meet the challenge of a circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u111	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u112	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. But I want to warn you about the urgency of the problem: in the national territory, several companies simply can no longer deal with the ultimate waste; we live it in the "plastics valley". This is a crucial environmental issue. Furthermore, let us not forget to take into account, in all the bills we will be discussing, the benefits of plastic industry and the importance of defending this economic sector, which, I repeat, knows how to make an environmental constraint an asset.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u113	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to raise her question, No. 563, on global warming and the coastline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u114	Climate change has irreversible consequences. It is already being observed in France, on the coast. As a result of the wild development of urban planning, French littorals are increasingly subject to erosion and are more exposed than before to the risks of marine submergence. It should be remembered that by 2100 the sea level should rise between 18 and 59 centimetres. There will be an increasing number of populations: according to the Observatoire national de la mer et du littoral, France, including overseas departments, is expected to have 9 million inhabitants on the coast by 2040, compared with 7.6 million in 2007. From now on, 850,000 people live in low-lying areas, whose altitude is below sea levels during extreme weather conditions. Today, however, the phenomenon is accelerating. It has considerable negative effects on populations: flood risk; cracks in buildings, especially at seafront; siltation of streets and buildings; landslides. In addition, on the Languedoc coastal facade, the mostly sandy coast and low altitude make the seashore more vulnerable to sedimentation and erosion. Communities are trying to adapt. In Sète, to protect the beach of Lido, the road was moved to keep it away from the sea; The beach has gained 70 meters and a dune cordon has been recreated. Offshore, sand boudins were laid at the bottom of the water to mitigate the swell and waves. In Gruissan, cabins on stilts were installed. As a result of storm Xynthia, which struck the Atlantic coast in February 2010, the state has increased the number of regulations, with no real effectiveness. The decline in the coast line requires greater government involvement. It should encourage efforts to adapt to rising waters through alternative methods to hard-wall structures, such as the promotion of buffer zones or the return of flood-prone land to livestock production. Finally, he must take care to accompany those affected who are forced to leave, real climate displaced persons. What does the minister of ecological and solidarity transition intend to do to avoid abandoning coastal citizens to their fate? What concrete means will it implement to adapt the coasts to rising waters?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u115	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u116	Madam Member, I am replying to you on behalf of the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, who, unable to be present, entrusted me with this task. If the coastline is indeed a very attractive territory, about a quarter of its extent declines as a result of erosion and 1.4 million people are at risk of marine submersion. The rise in the sea level will have, in the short and longer term, consequences for these phenomena, which will contribute to aggravation. That is why the Government intends to make the adaptation of coastal territories a priority: it is essential to anticipate the effects of climate change in order to imagine the coastline of tomorrow. In 2012, the State adopted a national strategy for integrated coastal line management, which contributes to this objective by identifying several actions to be taken. In addition, the adoption of the national flood risk management strategy in 2014 provided a common framework for flood risk prevention policy, including marine submersion. Many coastal communities have also chosen to use flood prevention programs – PAPI: these State-community contracting tools promote integrated flood risk management. In addition, a participatory approach entitled "Literal Dynamics" took place in the first half of 2018. Relying on the strong participation of the territories, it has led to the emergence of innovative ideas, but has also confirmed that a legal framework adapted to the implementation of integrated and sustainable coastal line management is necessary, as is the transformation of coastal territories to anticipate the effects of climate change. Parliamentary reflections are also under way on this subject; in line with the objectives of the national climate change adaptation plan launched by the Minister of State last December, they provide an opportunity to define a dynamic and tools adapted to the challenges of coastal territories. The issue of funding for potential relocation of assets and activities due to erosion is crucial. The Government has launched an inspection mission on the subject, which is expected to render its findings by the end of the first quarter of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u117	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u118	Minister, we are at the point where we can no longer go back: we are reduced to managing the consequences of climate change. We see it on the coast, but it will also happen in other places. This is probably also due to the fact that we looked elsewhere for a long time and hoped that things would be arranged on their own. I am therefore delighted to see that you are becoming aware of the problem; I look forward to our future discussions on the subject, here or in other places, and I hope for significant measures instead of the measures taken so far, by which we simply deal with the inexorable. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u119	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor to put his question, No. 585, on noise pollution related to the high-speed line – LGV – Bretagne- Pays-de-la-Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u120	Madam Minister responsible for transport, almost a year ago to the day – February 20, 2018 – during the oral questions session without debate, I invited your colleague Brune Poirson to come and spend a moment with the residents of the high-speed line between Paris and Rennes in order to measure in concrete terms the serious noise damage suffered by these men, women and children, especially those residing in the departments of Sarthe, Mayenne and Ille-et-Vilaine, and the consequences of this, whether it concerns the deterioration of their quality of life or the sharp depreciation of their property. A year ago, I drew the Government's attention in particular to the very high noise peaks they experienced during the passage of the TGV, up to 90 times a day on certain sections. You could certainly not stand to be in their place, minister. I was also concerned about the need to amend the existing regulations on noise measurement. On July 11, you informed us, Guillaume Garot and I, that you had taken this very sensitive issue before the General Council on the Environment and Sustainable Development – CGEDD – whose report would be drafted and published before the end of November 2018. I actually met the members of the CGEDD when they came to the field in Mayenne; I can testify to their quality of listening, and I know that the residents concerned have also been able to share with them their legitimate demands and proposals. Minister, today is February 19, 2019. Almost three months have elapsed since the end of November, which is the deadline for the release of the CGEDD report. The residents of the LGV are getting impatient; Their well-understood exasperation has even led them to seize justice. What's the status of this report? Why are you so late? What actions will be proposed to finally meet the expectations of the people concerned regarding the preservation of their quality of life, the protection of their health, the safeguarding of their economic and heritage interests? In the context of the crisis in our country, of the willingness shown by the President of the Republic and the Government to listen to our compatriots, especially through the great national debate, and to provide concrete remedies to their daily difficulties, it is high time to provide quick and effective solutions in response to the grievances of the residents of the LGV Bretagne-Pays-de-la-Loire. On their behalf, I thank you in advance for doing so, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u121	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u122	Mr President, in addition to the very clear improvement in the rail service of the Great West allowed by the new infrastructure Brittany-Pays-de-la-Loire as soon as it is put into service in July 2017, I can assure you that I am fully aware of the difficulties encountered by some of our fellow citizens who live nearby and that I understand their concerns. In order to verify compliance with noise regulations by this LGV as well as by the LGV Sud Europe Atlantic, i.e. the Towers-Bordeaux line, an extensive on-site acoustic measurement campaign was carried out from autumn 2017 to summer 2018. Of the 440 sites where acoustic measurements have been carried out, only three must be subject to priority corrective measures, which will be implemented in the near future. Of course, we need to go beyond this regulatory approach: the Government's objective is to respond to the feelings of local people and elected officials. That is the meaning of the mission that I entrusted to the General Council on the Environment and Sustainable Development. It covers the two high-speed lines, South-Europe-Atlantic and Brittany-Loire countries, and aims to provide answers to the difficult situations encountered. It is structured in three parts: first, to establish the objective criteria for identifying the dwellings most exposed to noise pollution; then propose a timetable for the implementation of the investments identified as necessary and examine the modalities of their financing; Finally, to make recommendations on the development of noise regulations applicable to new railway infrastructure – this is not a small subject as the regulation has already applied to existing infrastructure. The report has not yet been submitted to me, but should be submitted in the coming weeks. The subject, you will agree, is not simple. Once the report is submitted, the mission plans to travel in order to share its findings and proposals with the associations of local residents and elected representatives of the territories concerned. I would like to assure you, Mr President, of the commitment of the State to provide concrete solutions to the difficulties encountered by the residents of these two high-speed lines, in particular the Bretagne-Pays de la Loire line. Beyond these urgent responses, the Government is open to changes in rail noise regulations, in order to better take into account the intermittent nature of this noise, including noise peaks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u123	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u124	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would have liked you to give us a more precise date for the submission of the report, as long as it is expected by the residents. The exasperation wins, I said, to the point that they have seized justice. They need to be provided with concrete, clear and precise answers quickly. This would help to calm the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u125	The floor is open to Mr Philippe Gomès to put his question, No. 594, concerning the international conference on biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u126	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the holding of an international event on the protection of biodiversity. As you know, France occupies a special place in this field: it has the second maritime space on a global scale and is distinguished by the importance of its biodiversity. It owes it mainly to the overseas countries and territories, which alone account for 97% of this maritime area. The same applies to biodiversity: 80% of French biodiversity is located in ultramarine communities. During his campaign for the election to the Presidency of the Republic, candidate Emmanuel Macron had proposed that, during his term – if the French gave him their confidence – an international conference on the protection of biodiversity should be organised in one of the ultramarine communities. As such, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of the island Pacific, which is home to the richest ecosystems on the planet, while being the first victim of climate change, which is known to be the main threat to global biodiversity. Three island Pacific territories are French ultramarine communities: New Caledonia, Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna. New Caledonia occupies a special place in this space: it is the second hotspot – a critical zone – of the planet in terms of biodiversity, behind Madagascar, which is not nothing; It is the third hotspot from the point of view of plant endemism, behind Hawaii and New Zealand. Finally, France is the world's fourth largest coral reef power, thanks to New Caledonia, which comprises 75 per cent of the French reefs and one third of the so-called "pristine" reefs, the 3 per cent of the world's almost virgin reefs. New Caledonia has a natural place in biodiversity to host this international conference on the protection of biodiversity. Madam Minister, will the commitment of the President of the Republic be fulfilled? Is New Caledonia likely to be selected to host this international event?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u127	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u128	Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, was unable to attend and asked me to answer the question you asked him. You rightly stress, Mr President, the importance for France of protecting biodiversity and the value of its natural heritage, particularly in the overseas territories and departments. France has made this issue a major focus of its international environmental action, with the aim of reaching an ambitious agreement at the fifteenth Conference of the Parties – COP15 – to the Convention on Biological Diversity, to be held in China in October 2020. To this end, it wishes to contribute to the mobilization of all actors, including States, local authorities, NGOs, businesses, research organizations and the education system, through a major international event focusing on biodiversity. The international event chosen for this purpose is the World Conservation Congress of the International Union for Nature Conservation (IUCN), to be held in Marseille from 11 to 19 June 2020. Of course, the Overseas Territories, particularly New Caledonia, will be largely involved in the design of this congress, for which a dedicated team has been formed. The conference will also provide an opportunity to take stock of the national implementation of the biodiversity plan, adopted by the Government on 4 July 2018. In addition, I am pleased that the Government of New Caledonia is also demonstrating its commitment to the protection of nature by organizing, in the same year, an important international event in the area of biodiversity, namely the tenth Pacific Islands Conference on the Conservation of Nature and Protected Areas, in close liaison with the Ocean Regional Environment Programme – PROE. Through its action at the national and international levels, France is determined to put an end to the erosion of biodiversity in its territory and in the world. New Caledonia, the world's second largest hotspot in terms of biodiversity, you recalled, certainly has a great role to play in contributing to the success of this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u129	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u130	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. All the events organized, both in New Caledonia within the framework of PROE and the IUCN World Nature Congress in Marseille, are, of course, elements of a major policy for the protection of biodiversity and the awareness of all people around the world. Nevertheless, I would have liked a more symbolic and stronger act, I think we need it. France still enjoys an exceptional opportunity: New Caledonia is the world's second largest biodiversity site, which is not nothing. The holding of an international conference in New Caledonia, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic to organize such an event overseas, would have powerfully illustrated the need to protect this biodiversity, which is increasingly fragile.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u131	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to put her question, No. 567, concerning the malfunctions of line 7 of the metro.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u132	Minister responsible for transport, I echo the dissatisfaction of my fellow citizens with the malfunctions of line 7 of the metro, which serves the city of Villejuif. The economic vitality and quality of life in Villejuif and the surrounding cities translate into a large population density. Nearly 5,200 new residents moved to Villejuif in 2018. The territory attracts large companies: Crédit Lyonnais has been there for years, Orange will soon settle there. The result is dense pendulum movements. However, one train every 3 minutes 30 minutes during peak periods and every 10 minutes in case of disturbance is not sufficient to meet the public transport needs of the inhabitants. In addition to this problem of too much waiting time, there were repeated technical incidents – there were still ten minutes of waiting between two trainsets this morning – without any quality information being given to the passengers, nor any alternative buses available to them. The deterioration of the conditions of transport has important consequences for the working and family life of the users: delays at work, refusal of pupils during French because of too much delay, arrivals after the closure of the reception of the leisure centre, and I pass by. If the renovation of the trainsets is already under way to reduce material incidents, I am convinced that it is necessary to go further in order to put an end to the deterioration of the transport conditions of our fellow citizens. A number of solutions could certainly be considered. I am thinking in particular of the automation of the line, which seems to be a concrete and efficient technical solution, among other things to reduce the gap between trains. I would like to draw the Government's attention to this point. What measures will be taken to ensure that RATP and the transport organizing authority, Île-de-France Mobilitys, guarantee a quality public service, oriented towards users – who are obliged to take the metro every day – and a factor of mobility, so that moving is no longer a constraint, but represents a real opportunity and a chance for all?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u133	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u134	Madam Member, I am well aware of the importance of the quality of daily transport in the quality of life of our citizens. That is precisely why the Government has made it its top priority in the field of transport. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the organizing authority of the transports franciliens is Île-de-France Mobilitys. It therefore defines the level and quality of service requested from RATP, within the framework of the contract which binds it to the company. In 2017, twelve of the fourteen RATP metro lines met the peak hour regularity target, which was set at 96.5% punctuality for travellers. Only lines 6 and 7 failed. The problem you raise is therefore very real. The actions undertaken by RATP have reduced irregularities of internal origin and limited certain external incidents, including interruptions of traffic due to the presence of forgotten baggage, thanks to the intervention of cyno-detection teams. These measures have led to an increase in the number of rush hours. The peak hour regularity index thus rose from 96.3% to 98.5% in 2018. Ile-de-France Mobilitys is responsible for the quality of service on metro lines. Nevertheless, the State is aware of the need to improve the conditions of travel and is committed to daily transportation in Île-de-France under two programmes. The first is the improvement and development of the existing network through the contract of plan État-region Île-de-France, which is the only one with a component relating to urban transport. It provides for an investment of €7.6 billion, of which €1.4 billion is financed by the State and €1.6 billion by the Société du Grand Paris. The second is, of course, the Grand Paris Express, which aims to provide the Île-de-France with an automatic metro in a ring road. The latter will have a connection with line 7 at Villejuif-Louis Aragon station, which will greatly improve the mobility capabilities of users of line 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u135	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u136	Thank you, Minister, for the clarity and precision of your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u137	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to put her question, No. 571, on the mobility of Francilians and parking.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u138	Minister responsible for transportation, we have placed the fight against house arrest at the heart of our project. It starts when you cannot continue your studies or accept a job, due to the lack of suitable transport and accessible rates. Not a day goes by without me being questioned by people in my constituency about the difficulties they encounter in their daily travels. They are considered privileged because they reside in Île-de-France, near large companies and decision-making centres, but the reality is quite different: the lack of mobility creates a territorial and social divide at the very heart of Île-de-France. It is also an issue for the ecological transition. We must accompany the French towards greener movements. However, the infrastructure in place does not encourage the Francilians to opt for, or even discourage, more environmentally friendly modes of transport. The inhabitants of South Yvelines are forced to travel by car for their work and daily life. Although the network of public transport has improved, it remains insufficient. This is all the more true for the inhabitants of rural areas. I have held public meetings to raise the expectations and difficulties of the inhabitants of South Yvelines in terms of mobility, particularly to Île-de-France Mobilitys, which you mentioned earlier. They face major obstacles when using public transport: lack of safe and affordable parking in the vicinity of railway stations; poor infrastructure quality. The question of relay parks should not be disconnected from that of investments in railway lines. The territory is in fact served by SNCF lines with questionable efficiency: delays, outdated lines and trainsets, insecurity, reduced hourly amplitudes at the counters. Significant investments have been announced to improve their performance. The State will invest EUR 10 million a day for ten years. Nevertheless, can you confirm to us that the daily trains will be the first targeted? What exactly will be the investments and lines involved in Île-de-France? The expectations of the inhabitants in this regard are strong and precise. I fear that these investments will be in vain if the ambition is not broadened: the aim is to reduce the congestion of our roads in France from daily journeys and to make the train the preferred mode of transport. The few existing car parks demonstrate the success of this solution but, as a result of their success, they are saturated and local managers are considering pricing solutions. While parking-relays are being opened at the gates of Paris, for the most remote stations in Ile-de-France the number of projects is largely insufficient. The free use of these parks for the holders of an annual Navigo Pass, announced by the Regional President, is an important decision, but it is necessary to speed up their construction if we are to make progress. Minister, what steps will be taken to encourage the use of the train, such as the creation of free parking lots? Could the mobility guidance bill, which is soon to be considered in the Senate, include a provision to speed up the movement?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u139	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u140	Madam Member, you are raising the question of the quality of daily transportation in Île-de-France. I confirm that it is one of the Government's priorities throughout the country. The more specific subject of relay and folding car parks falls within the competence of Île-de-France Mobilitys. Île-de-France Mobilitys, which is the organizing authority for transport for the whole region, has announced a policy to accompany the development of relay car parks for the Francilians, formalized by a master plan whose aim is to create 10,000 places by 2021. The improvement and development of the existing daily transport network is the Government's priority. In Île-de-France, this support takes the form of various projects, in particular that of the Grand Paris Express – 35 billion euros of investment – but also of the State-region plan contract, the only one in France to have a part dedicated to public transport, which in this case previews 7.6 billion investments for the period 2015-2020, of which 1.4 billion financed by the State and 1.6 billion by the Société du Grand Paris. This component provides funding for both the extension of certain metro lines – four are in progress – the commissioning of new trams or tram trains, and the improvement of the operation of the Transilian network trains as well as the existing RERs. The master and sector plans of the RER and the Transilien network are thus well funded by the plan contract. Line N has thus benefited from significant investments, co-financed by the State, to improve its operation and prepare the arrival of new rolling stock. On the other hand, it is important to offer users efficient folding solutions to heavy modes such as the RER, the train or the metro, by developing new mobilitys, such as carpooling, or by promoting intermodality thanks, in particular, to relay parking. As such, the mobility guidance bill, which will shortly be discussed in Parliament, aims to support this type of approach: to facilitate carpooling and to reinforce the obligation of station managers to create car parks, including secure places for bicycles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u141	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u142	We all welcome the state's unprecedented commitment to day-to-day trains, which has been the poor parent in recent years. Our fellow citizens need concrete details about the shift in these investments. Consideration of the mobility guidance bill will allow these elements to be put into public debate. The Grand Paris Express project will not benefit all the Francilians even if it will help to reduce congestion. With regard to the Transilian network, we need to know the details of the investments planned for its modernisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u143	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor to raise her question, No. 573, concerning the deletion of TER on the Lyon-Chambéry line.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u144	As you know, the inhabitants of Savoyard Avant-Pays, a living pool of 30,000 inhabitants, have experienced great difficulties of mobility on a daily basis since 9 December last. As a result of the work carried out at Lyon-Part-Dieu railway station, eight out of ten regional express trains were abolished on the Chambéry-Lyon line by the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, without prior consultation. However, this regional line serves many small stations, allowing residents to move easily and municipalities to be attractive. Today, 3,000 employees, business leaders, students, volunteers are undertaking a combatant's journey to work in the morning and return to their homes in the evening, due to a drastically reduced train speed and not corresponding to the working population's schedules. Although since the Act on Urban Solidarity and Renewal, which came into force in 2002, the regions have become the organizing authorities for transport, the State remains the guarantor of a coherent railway system. For several weeks, the situation has been blocked, the inhabitants of Savoyard Avant-Pays no longer have a proper public transport solution while they live several tens of kilometres from where they work. The Government must respond. This situation is ubiquitous as our valleys in Savoie are increasingly polluted every year, which SNCF Réseau has invested 55 million euros on this line no later than last year, that a right to mobility will soon be recognised in the mobility guidance bill, which you will defend shortly. While the Government is pursuing a policy of opening up peri-urban and rural territories while fighting pollution, how can we put an end to this blockage, which nullifies the mobility of the inhabitants of Savoyard Foreland?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u145	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u146	Madam Member, you have alerted me to the difficulties of the inhabitants of Savoyard Avant-Pays during my recent trip to Savoie. Very important work is currently taking place on the multimodal exchange hub of Lyon-Part-Dieu, designed to de-naturalize this major station for both TGV and TER services. In particular, to facilitate railway operations and improve the regularity of trains, the signs will be changed and a new track created. This large-scale project requires, during the construction period, the neutralisation of two out of eleven lanes, thus limiting the capacity of trains to accommodate them. The service schedule and TER schedules for the 2019 annual service, which started on 9 December 2018, had to be largely adapted. This was done in close consultation between the services of SNCF Réseau, SNCF Mobilités and the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. As the organising authority for regional rail services, the latter is the only authority responsible for defining the provision of TER services, based on both its analysis of mobility needs in its territorial jurisdiction and operational constraints. In accordance with the principle of the free administration of local and regional authorities, the State does not intervene in these choices. As regards the TER services between Chambéry and Lyon, two routes are offered to travellers, one via Aix-les-Bains, the other via Lépin-le-Lac and Pont-de-Beauvoisin. On this last route, to meet the main mobility needs of the inhabitants of the Savoyard Avant-Pays, two direct trains are kept in rush hour in the morning to get to Lyon and two in the evening in reverse direction. As a result of the work, the other routes proposed involve, in the majority of cases, a connection between a road service providing fine service to the territory of the Savoyard Avant-Pays and a rail service to Lyon. I fully understand the feelings of the passengers with regard to the lengthening of the journey times which these adaptations of the TER transport plan involve. I call for further cooperation from the region, in conjunction with SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u147	Mrs Typhanie Degois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u148	The inhabitants understand that work is necessary but on most of the lines in the area, 80% of the trains have been abolished while the railway capacity of the Lyon-Part-Dieu station is reduced by only 20%. The inhabitants of rural areas live as an injustice the fact that people are always favored by towns and cities. The consultation with the region has been a problem, it is obvious, but perhaps this is precisely the opportunity to take advantage of the next mobility policy bill to give the authority responsible for monitoring the quality of service in transport more power and make the line committees mandatory in order to develop the consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u149	Mr Yannick Haury, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 577, concerning the de-enclavement of the South-Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u150	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the difficulties of mobility in the south of the Loire-Atlantique. The Country of Retz is a very attractive territory, where population growth is strong – four times the national average. Adapting road and rail infrastructure to the needs of businesses and residents is therefore becoming imperative. At a time when the Prime Minister has signed a future contract with the Pays de la Loire region and the mobility policy bill will soon be debated, I am the spokesperson for the parliamentarians and elected representatives concerned to ask that we be associated with the decisions that will be taken. It is from the base, closer to the real needs, that we will find solutions that are both less expensive and more efficient, and not through the distant eyes of the elected representatives of the metropolis, who unfortunately seem to be weighing on certain decisions. For example, the development of the Nantes-Atlantique airport must include the adaptation of train and tram lines. The aim of the mobility guidance bill is to open up rural and semi-urban areas. It is therefore necessary to find a solution quickly at the crossing of the Loire downstream of the bridge of Cheviré. In the same spirit, the deviation of View and the doubling of RD_751 between Nantes and Pornic, are works to be carried out urgently. Traffic is so dense on this road that it has become extremely dangerous, the scene of many fatal accidents that mourn the entire region. I know that this route is departmental, but the vital issue is such that the intervention of the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France would be justified. That's the wish I'm expressing forcefully. We work with the sub-prefect to find solutions adapted to the mobility problems in our territory. However, I would like to repeat to you, minister: we absolutely need the help of the state to catch up with the backlog of these years of abandonment and to make the necessary improvements urgently.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u151	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u152	Mr President, as you said, the Prime Minister signed on 8 February with the Pays de la Loire region, a future contract that formalises the shared commitments of the state and the communities in favour of mobility in the region. The contract provides in particular for the regeneration of the Nantes-Bordeaux railway line via La Roche-sur-Yon and the Vendée, which will complete the gains allowed by the replacement of all trains running on this line and financed by the State. It also provides for the launch of studies for a new crossing of the Loire downstream of Nantes. The State is fully aware of the expectations of elected officials on this subject, whose principle has been incorporated into the future contract. Although this development is intended to be coordinated, decided upon and implemented by the communities, the State is committed to ensuring that they can benefit from technical support and support in their ongoing reflections. In this capacity, in accordance with the commitment made in the Addendum to the CPER, the centre of studies and expertise on risks, the environment, mobility and development, CEREMA, will provide methodological and technical support to the regional council in the context of the realization of a study of opportunity for a new crossing of the Loire downstream of the bridge of Cheviré. This support helps to identify the challenges of a new crossing and its impact on local and regional territorial balance. In accordance with the contract, the State undertook, upon completion of the studies in early 2020, to examine the principle and modalities of its support for the implementation of the chosen crossing solution. As far as departmental roads are concerned, the State is not intended to intervene in their financing, since their transfer to the departments has given rise to financial compensation. The Loire-Atlantique department has the means to take on the necessary facilities. You can see, Mr. Member, the strength of the state's commitment to accompany mobility in the West. It expresses its willingness to pursue a dynamic policy of land-locking, based on the modernization of infrastructure but also on all the tools provided for in the mobility guidance bill, in favour of sustainable mobility in all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u153	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u154	Thank you, Minister, for taking into account these planning realities that determine the right balance between rural areas, metropolitan areas and connections with neighbouring territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u155	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier spoke of his question No 580 concerning the abolition of a Lyria journey through Frasne, Dole and Dijon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u156	During the parliamentary debates on the new railway pact and during the major national debate, the Government expressed its willingness to preserve the railway services of the territories. However, Lyria unilaterally decided to abolish one round trip a day between Paris and Lausanne via Frasne, Dole and Dijon. Starting with the 2020 annual service, there would be only three daily round-trips, instead of four currently, representing a 25% decrease in frequencies. I would remind you that Lyria's capital is co-owned by SNCF at 74% and by Swiss railways at 26%. The company also has good financial results: it achieved 289 million euros of turnover last year. If confirmed, this decision would have adverse consequences for land use planning. Lyria indeed connects to Switzerland the whole region Burgundy Franche-Comté, including, through the game of correspondence, the Haut-Jura and the Haut-Doubs. Lyria also facilitates economic cooperation. It is part of, for example, the links that motivate the project of new town and development in the area of the Dole railway station. Finally, Lyria is important for our regional capital, Dijon, which has embarked on major tourism investments. Lyria tells us that the trains will be better equipped, with new two-storey trainsets, wifi and new comfort. This argument is not admissible: the increase in the capacity of trains does not compensate for the reduction in their frequency. I would like to underline the union and the mobilization of the elected representatives of Burgundy Franche-Comté from all departments and from all political sensitivities, against the decision of Lyria. I also note the committed support of the Swiss elected representatives of the cities of Lausanne, Vallorbe, or Neuchâtel. They are formal: the works planned at Lausanne station cannot be used as a pretext. We are talking about removing one train a day, while this station sees it leaving or arriving twenty-five per hour. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you, and I ask the Government to give clear support to the elected representatives of Burgundy Franche-Comté in the arms that oppose them to the Lyria society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u157	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u158	You are asking me, Mr. MP, about the service of the TGV service Lyria Paris-Lausanne via the Jura from the annual service of 2020. You recalled it, from 2020, and at least until 2026, the Lausanne station will undergo important work. This large-scale project will result in the temporary closure, during the construction period, of two out of eight votes, thereby limiting the capacity of the station. This technical constraint leads the operator Lyria to postpone or delete certain TGVs providing the Paris-Lausanne connection via the Jura, which will count three daily round trips in 2020, compared to four currently. The stations of Dijon, Dole and Frasne will therefore lose a daily round trip. The Mouchard and Pontarlier stations, on the other hand, will retain one and three daily roundtrips respectively, their current service. In view of the scale of the changes envisaged, Lyria met with local elected representatives to present the changes to the service. As you have also recalled, to compensate for the decrease in the frequency on the Paris-Lausanne route via the Jura, Lyria replaces all the trainsets currently in service on this route with new, more comfortable and reliable two-level trainsets, but above all in a position to accommodate more passengers. This means that the elimination of one in four round-trips will not prevent a slight increase in the number of places offered. I am well aware that capacity is not everything, and that frequency is also important. I therefore reiterate the need for developments in the area of TGV services to be carried out in consultation with the territories, in order to define measures to maintain a quality rail service in the Jura stations, while taking into account the constraints associated with the work at Lausanne station.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u159	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u160	Thank you, minister, for these elements, but the frequency is indeed essential. Keep four daily round trips between Paris and Lausanne that go through the Jura seems essential for this department. A lesser frequency will eventually kill this line with little fire, and will make that our department, but also the entire Burgundy Franche-Comté will be much less served than before by rail traffic, which would be catastrophic for our region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u161	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor to put his question, No 581, on free tolls and emergency services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u162	My question, Madam Minister, concerns the free movement of motorway tolls, which was passed in the previous Finance Act for the benefit of rescue services, and which was to be the subject of an implementing decree. To date, this decree has not been issued. In addition, I had referred a written question to your department. I received an answer on 18 December, and I would like to ask you about that answer. I was quite surprised by the terms used by your services: they said that the decision taken in the finance law is too complicated, and contrary to both the principle of equality and the law of contracts, it would be impossible, or almost impossible, to implement it. In other words, your administration responded to the national representation that a text voted under the Finance Act would not be applied. So I would like to know if that is your department's position. I take this opportunity to draw your attention to the fact that the argument put forward by your services in their answer to my written question is exactly the one that would be developed by the motorway concession companies, if they were to open a dispute with the State, from the moment we apply this free of charge for emergency services. Under these circumstances, minister, I ask you what your department's position is on this matter. Will this implementing decree be issued? In any case, it would probably be appropriate to change the response of your services, because – I am now wearing my old lawyer cap – if I were to plead for highway companies, I would have the advantage over the state, since the ministry itself would say that the state is at fault: it would obviously be very complicated for the state to defend itself in litigation. This response also suggests that it is the administration that governs, not the Government, and regardless of the vote of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u163	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u164	I have in mind that the finance law for 2018 plans to make highway tolls free for vehicles of rescue services, including when they are not in operation on the highway. I would like to recall that this provision is intended to reduce the expenditure of the State and the departments. But I do not agree with the answer you mentioned, to which you have just made a very significant advertisement: if one wanted to avoid pointing out leads to the concessionaire companies, then it is the opposite that is done. It may be noted, however, that the conditions for the application of the voted measure are complex. Motorway concession companies and the State are bound by contracts whose balance cannot be called into question, even by law. The amendment voted under the 2018 Finance Act results in a loss of profits for these concessionary companies. As parties to this contract, they would be based on the law of contracts that you certainly know, as a lawyer, to seek compensation from the State. The public authorities would then be obliged to compensate the concessionaire companies for the free amount granted by this amendment. If, of course, the Government wished to apply the law, it also wished to preserve the interest of the public authorities in the application of the law. It is therefore working to find modalities that are in line with the general interest, which do not affect public finances. It seems to me to be no doubt that it was the meaning of the amendment that had been voted on. There is therefore no question of public financing a free measure which is the responsibility of the concessionaire companies. That's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u165	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u166	As for the publicity given to your services' reply, it was published in the Official Journal. I therefore have no doubt that, in any event, the motorway companies would have had access to it quite easily. On the substance, I regret that no date has been set for the implementation of this decision: we have obviously not received a reply on this point. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a particular point. As a former president of the departmental council, I had to deal with all the problems, including budgetary issues, of a departmental fire and rescue department. This amendment, even beyond the financial aspect, has a very strong symbolic aspect. To visit the fire stations in my territory on a regular basis, I can tell you that the question of its application is followed by a magnifying glass. And, at a time when we need our fire and rescue services so badly, and their commitment is absolutely irreproachable, I believe that in any event, your services really need to move forward quickly, so that this commitment can be met. Let us not be told that, because of difficulties in negotiations, a text which has been voted on by this House as a whole cannot be applied. This subject is really not political, it is of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u167	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor to put her question, No 582, on motorway concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u168	For many years, motorway tolls have increased and penalized motorists. Nice is the only metropolis to have a peri-urban toll, which forces the population wishing to bypass the city to pay. In addition, the announcement of the use of the national license plate file by dealers shocked many of our fellow citizens. I was struck by the fact that the negotiations, especially those of 2015 in which you participated as the Chief of Staff of the competent minister, were conducted despite all that the state could obtain from these concessionaires. That is why I tabled on 8 January a motion for a resolution calling for the establishment of a committee of inquiry into these autoroutian concessions. It is supported by several Members, some of whom belong to your majority. An omerta still exists today on these negotiations, contracts and profits, and this is unacceptable. The cost is becoming too high for motorists, and it is not the new 1.8% increase on February 1 that will ease their anger. Dealers have been favoured for too long at the expense of the general interest and the motorists. The latter are obliged to use motorways for various reasons, and are penalized by their prohibitive tariffs. I know you're afraid of another grunt. That's why you got dealers a 30% discount for motorists making more than ten round trips a month. But the French are not fooled, Madam Minister. This effort, which you present as an unprecedented one, since it has been rare in recent years, will not prevent the topic of the renationalization of motorways from arising in the great national debate of which you claim the virtues. Let us hope that this package does not announce the famous urban tolls mentioned by your majority at the beginning of the term! As we know, this type of effort must be compensated in order to comply with the financial conditions of the concession contracts. This is a sign of the obvious impotence of the State in the face of these concessionaires. It is therefore high time to clarify the areas of shadow that persist around this subject. Can you tell us, Madam Minister, the position of the Government on its relations with motorway dealers, and the plan of action envisaged for the next negotiations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u169	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u170	I would like to remind you that the privatisation of motorway companies dates back to 2006, and I think you belong to the majority who voted for it. Personally, I was not part of the Government in 2006. Nevertheless, this privatization does raise the question of transparency and balance of relations between the state and motorway concessionary companies. With regard to the transparency of these contractual relations, it should be recalled that the law of 6 August 2015 on economic growth, activity and equal opportunities imposed the "making available to the public by electronic means" of motorway contracts. Furthermore, since 2016, the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities – ARAFER – has issued public notices on the plans for new concession contracts, as well as on all proposed amendments affecting toll rates. The European Commission controls the renegotiations of contracts for the extension of the concession. Finally, Parliament has seen its means of monitoring and evaluation considerably strengthened, since since the law of 6 August 2015 referred to above, it is up to it to authorize the extension of the duration of concession contracts. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that following the 2015 crisis, which led to the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, a rebalancing of relations between the State and the concessionary companies took place. Thus, a mechanism limiting over-profits has been introduced in historical contracts: in the event of economic over-performance over the period of extension of the contract, toll rates are reduced, or the duration of the concession is reduced. All this, under the control of the independent regulator, ARAFER. The State can also recover the financial advantage of lags in the actual timing of investments related to new network operations. Moreover, the law of 6 August 2015 created the ARAFER, which has the power to control and sanction it to preserve the interest of users in the negotiations between the state and the motorway dealers. Finally, I would like to point out that the discounts granted to regular users who have subscribed to a subscription are non-compensatory commercial measures. Nearly a million motorists will see tolls drop by 30%. This is potentially an effort of several tens of millions of euros for motorway companies. With regard to trade measures decided by motorway companies, this effort will not be the subject of any compensation, either from users or from the State, today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u171	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u172	Minister, in 2006, given my age, I was not a Member of Parliament, unfortunately, and was therefore unable to participate in the debate. On the other hand, in 2015, you were Chief of Staff at the time of the renegotiations, which resulted in decisions still surrounded by blur. You're a minister today. You have an opportunity to act. Today we are paying the 2015 renegotiation price...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u173	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u174	... since it was decided at the time to freeze the toll rates for a year. The decision taken at that time now affects motorists. I ask you, Madam Minister responsible for Transport, to be vigilant on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u175	Mrs Frédérique Dumas, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 593, on the CDG Express.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u176	Madam Minister responsible for Transport, in an interview with the Parisian on 5 February, you announced the signing of the concession contract for the realization of the CDG Express, ensuring that "this will not be done at the expense of the transports franciliens". We were then five Members of Parliament to issue a press release pointing out the many inconsistencies in the file. We, like many elected representatives and citizens, called for the postponement, not the spread, of this project as seems to be envisaged. Prefect Cadot confirmed in his pre-report that "if the impact of the work would be acceptable in 2019 and 2020", this would not be the case between 2020 and 2024 "without an unprecedented and ambitious plan". He also noted the uncertainties regarding the impact of the work, stating that "the solutions under consideration will not be known and their effectiveness demonstrated until the end of the coordination mission at the end of March 2019". It is only at this time that it will be possible to "confirm the impact of the work on daily trains". I want to ask you two questions, Madam Minister. First question: while everything is decided a little in haste, can you assure us that the principle you have set yourself, of the neutrality of the CDG Express project on the RER B, both during the work phase and later in operation, will be respected? Second question: it was not possible, either for Nicolas Sarkozy or Manuel Valls, who wanted this project, to find a financing solution from the private sector, because of the severe questions about the balance of operation of the line over time. The Government has therefore taken the decision, in order to respect the statement given that the CDG Express would be ready for the Olympic Games, to become the creditor of this project for an amount of €1.8 billion to date. It is certainly not a public subsidy but a repayable loan. But the 2018 Finance Act makes it clear that spending and debt will be consolidated in public finances and that the dedicated company belongs to the category of various central government bodies. While the concession was granted to a consortium of private law, the main shareholders are public companies: SNCF Réseau on the one hand, Aéroports de Paris on the other hand, whose announced privatisation is strongly contested. Minister, can you assure us that the concession contract does not contain any state guarantees? Can you also assure us that, in one form or another, public finances will not be committed in the event of an operating deficit? If the bond of trust is broken between the French and their leaders, it is that, far too often, commitments are not fulfilled. For the words fly away, the ministers pass – I say not for you but in general – while the consequences of the decisions taken are inevitable. These two questions, Madam Minister, I solemnly ask you: your answers will commit the word of the State and your own word to the citizens. They'll commit you to the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u177	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u178	Madam Member, I hear your concerns about the CDG Express, particularly its impact on the daily lines of the RER B, the RER D and the P and K lines of the Transilien. However, no one can be satisfied with the current airport service. The aim is therefore to postpone traffic from the road to the rail, while avoiding a delicate cohabitation of RER B users with passengers carrying luggage. I have already made this very clear: there is no question of the CGD Express being at the expense of everyday transport. I repeat: there is no one euro public subsidy for this project, which will be financed at the level of 60% by its users and 40% by a tax on airline tickets. You asked me about the financial fragility of the project: we are still far from having reached the legal ceiling of the air ticket tax. The contract also provides for many rebalancing arrangements if the project's trajectory is not to be nominal. I would also like to point out that of the EUR 1.8 billion invested – without any public funding – 530 million will be used for improvements on the RER B, particularly on the southern part of the line, ensuring greater robustness and punctuality thanks to three reversals that will help to limit the consequences of the incidents. My priority has never changed: it goes to everyday transportation. All of the State's investments in Île-de-France are devoted to this project, with an unprecedented level of investment: €7.6 billion under the plan contract, more than 200 kilometres of new metro lines and an effort to modernize the railway network multiplied by three. The CDG Express project will never pass before the priority given to daily transport: this is my red line, I confirm it to you. I am therefore prepared, and I have already said, to adjust it as much as necessary to meet this priority, including the timetable. The prefect, responsible for coordinating all planned work on the sector, will make his recommendations to us at the end of March or the beginning of April. We will ensure that users and communities are involved in the work in a transparent manner. In response to the concerns that you have already expressed, a meeting is scheduled this Thursday with the Members of Parliament of the Hauts-de-Seine and the Prefect of the Region: it will allow, I hope, to answer your questions about the CDG Express and collect all your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u179	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u180	As far as the impact of the work is concerned, what value do you have in terms of the guarantees you provide, since, as the Prefect Cadot said, the conclusions on the subject are not yet given – they will only be delivered at the end of March?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u181	I said we'd take it into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u182	Your commitment is therefore not based on certain guarantees, which are very ambitious, as the Prefect himself pointed out. Moreover, if the financing is not provided by a public subsidy, however, the shareholders of the private company are owned by the public: the finances of the State may be requested.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u183	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to put his question, No. 565, concerning the TGV service linking the Douaisis to Paris-Nord.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u184	The minister responsible for transportation, a sick hospital, courts in danger, a postal centre that closes its doors: the territory of Douaisis seems to have become the target of the wrong blows. As far as transport is concerned, the picture is no more encouraging. The Somain Yard station is left to abandon, despite all the ecological interest of rail freight. Elected officials, railway workers and citizens are still waiting for a government visit to the site. The latest attack was the planned disappearance of TGV services for trains connecting the capital. Beyond Douai, it is a whole territory that is targeted. Lens, Valenciennes, Dunkirk: up to two thirds of the TGV services in the region would be threatened. This irresponsible decision, taken without consultation, is unanimous against her. It's always the same song: you have to delete, delete and delete again, without any room for debate. We are informed once the decision is made. Without trying to dramatize, it is the future and the survival of a territory that are at stake. How can we talk about mobility, attractiveness and economic dynamism if TGVs to and from Paris-Nord are removed? SNCF has already told me that it is "too early to react", without excluding a sharp reduction in high-speed supply to prepare for opening up to competition. You, Madam Minister, remain silent. It is impossible for me to get an answer since I called you last December, despite several revivals from my office. My question is quite straightforward: can you inform the inhabitants of the region today of what you intend to do to prevent the SNCF from being the engine of a two-speed republic? What is your concrete political action on this issue, in order to refuse any reduction of service? Here I look forward to a firm and lasting commitment, a precise response.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u185	The Minister responsible for transport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u186	Mr President, when you ask me, you give me the opportunity to reply on TGV services in the Hauts-de-France in general and on the connection between Douai and Paris in particular. First of all, I would like to reiterate that I am very committed to ensuring that rail transport has its full place in our mobility policy in order to both meet the needs of our fellow citizens in terms of daily transport and combat all territorial divides. I understand the concerns arising from the various articles in the press concerning the restructuring of TGV services in Hauts-de-France. I can assure you of my utmost vigilance on the subject. Dialogue between the SNCF and the territories concerned is essential before any decision is taken. Consultation was initiated with the Regional Council, at its request. In the current reflections, it is not a question of abolishing TGV services but of reorganising them to Lille rather than to Paris, within the framework of TGV agreements. I recently received Mr. Guillaume Pepy to address this issue and asked SNCF to extend the work with the Regional Council while consulting with all affected communities. I have also requested that the parliamentarians concerned be received. The Government was very committed to the quality of the dialogue between SNCF and the Territories. The railway reform has thus planned to introduce, from 2021 onwards, mandatory consultation and information procedures for the territories before any development of the service. As I pointed out in the discussions on rail reform, there is no question of reverting to the model of a TGV which serves our territories widely. My message is clear, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u187	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u188	I heard you correctly, Madam Minister. It must be noted, however, that decisions are taken without the consultation of the elected representatives and the citizens concerned. All political forces are unanimous in refusing the disappearance of the TGVs in the Douaisis. The Douaisis is not a second area, nor are its inhabitants second area citizens. This territory has the right to its public services, like any other territory. Minister, you mentioned consultations: I myself was invited as a Member of Parliament on March 29 to such a consultation. However, there is no question that it is to learn that the reorganization of the services means that the inhabitants of the Douaisis will now be obliged, in order to take the TGV, to first take a TER to Lille or Arras. We wish to keep the departures of TGV from the stations of Douai, Valenciennes and Lens. If you confirm that you agree with me, the case is settled: TGVs will continue from Douai.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u189	I mentioned consultations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u190	I understand that TGVs will continue from Douai.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u191	Mrs Sarles has the floor to put her question, No. 570, concerning the duplication of the classes of CP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u192	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of National Education and Youth, at the time we read the school cards – I received a letter from the Academic Director of the National Education Services dated February 15th –, my question is about the forecast for the 2019 school year. The doubling of preparatory and first-year elementary classes in the most disadvantaged territories was a strong commitment of the President of the Republic to real equality and emancipation in order to combat school failure and drop-out. Evaluations of the implementation of this measure first in CP and then in EC1 have shown its effectiveness. In my constituency, however, of the five CP classes that have been split into REPs – the priority education network – the number of students in two classes, located in the school of a municipality on the outskirts of the central city, reaches fifteen. The presence of a CADA – a reception centre for asylum seekers – also leads to downward and upward changes in numbers – it is currently on the rise in a school in my constituency. What are, Mr. Secretary of State, the maximum strength per class that you consider compatible with the quality objective that we are all looking for? What instructions have you given to the services in the department? jihIn addition, I would like to ask you another question that concerns rural areas rather than rural areas. In my constituency, to take concrete examples, the number of students in some primary classes, excluding REP or REP+, reaches thirty students on several levels. What do you think of these multi-level classes with large numbers? What can we offer to children to promote equal opportunities and facilitate their future college career?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u193	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u194	Madam Member, you have asked me about the fight against school difficulties and inequalities at the root. I know that this subject is particularly mobilising you, both in your constituency and at the national level. Yes, we must act at the root: this is the meaning of the efforts undertaken in priority education with the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 over the school years from 2017 to 2019. You recalled that this was a commitment of the President of the Republic. At the start of 2018, the device is fully operational in CP classes in REP and REP+. The classes of CE1 in REP+ were split wherever possible. The average number of students per class of CP is 12.6 in REP+ and 12.7 in REP. In particular, with regard to the duplication of classes in the Loire department, at the start of 2018, in REP+, the twenty-eight classes of CP were split, with a supervision rate of 12.9 pupils per class. Similarly, the twenty-six classes of EC1 were split, with a supervision rate of 12.8 pupils per class. In PER, seventy-one of the seventy-three classes of CP are split, with a supervision rate of 12.6 students per class. To answer your question, it is this level of supervision that we seek to achieve. As these average frame rates show, situations like those you describe may still exist, but they are transient. This expected reform was implemented very quickly. Our objective is that it should be deployed in such a way that all classes in all the territories can benefit from it and have the rate of supervision announced by the President of the Republic during the campaign. The lack of facilities in some schools may have led to a preference for the co-operation of two teachers from the schools in the same room or to the organization of double-level groups. Again, these are practical situations that have had to be handled in the event of the arrival of new students in the course of the school year. It is on a case-by-case basis that the academic services, in close association with the municipalities, decide whether it is desirable and possible to open a new class. You then asked me about the extremely sensitive issue of school attendance in rural areas. The Government is proud to strengthen this school presence in rural areas and to ensure that the rate of supervision does not decrease despite the demographic situation. Taking the twenty-five most rural departments, there is a decrease of 60,000 pupils over two years: normally, this situation should have mechanically led to the abolition of classes and posts. On the contrary, we create classes and posts in rural areas. In particular, you have asked the question of classes on several levels. This is a sensitive subject, because this type of class sometimes allows for the maintenance of an establishment in certain territories. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the quality of teaching is always on the agenda for students. These situations are obviously studied on a case-by-case basis by the academic services. We will continue our reflection on this subject. A report on the territorialisation of educational policies, both in the PERs and REP+ and in rural areas, was commissioned by Mr Mathiot and Mrs Azema and will be submitted to us in the coming weeks. It will be interesting to see what changes can be made in the situations you describe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u195	Mrs. Nathalie Sarles has the floor for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u196	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to this issue of the split classes on several levels, of which there is little talk...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u197	Thank you, my dear colleague, we understand you very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u198	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor to put his question, No. 583, on the reform of schools and high schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u199	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth, as Mrs Sarles has just explained, the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP +, with a threshold of twelve pupils per class, has led to the explosion of the numbers of certain other classes, which have exceeded the threshold of thirty pupils. This is a reality in our peripheral and rural territories. When we ask you about this, we are often entitled to an answer, or rather a non-response, which is to quote demographic figures or very global thresholds, expressed at the departmental level, mixing the PERs and the peripheral areas and not allowing a real reading of the situation. Today, I would like to focus on a few points in order to highlight the inequities in education and social life that such a reform entails. First, because of the closures of some rural schools, some children find themselves far removed from their schools. In my riding, because of bus schedules, they sometimes spend more than two hours a day in transportation. This is less time for family, extracurricular, cultural and sporting activities. This transport time generates a lot of fatigue and affects the student's ability to concentrate and learn. They spend more time out of their homes than workers or employees. Another equally revealing thing, as you talk about difficulties in some neighbourhoods: a report by France Stratégie, an agency linked to the Government, showed that children in rural areas are now 15 per cent less likely than children in neighbourhoods to experience a social rise in relation to the situation of their parents. My question is very simple, Secretary of State: how do you apprehend these serious inequalities that condemn certain children and help condemn our territories? I now come to the reform of high schools, which now seems illegible. It complicates the system, devalues certain disciplines and raises legitimate concerns among teachers, parents and especially students. It also leads to geographical inequities for rural high schools and difficulties for children in popular circles. First, there are fewer options available in secondary schools in the periphery and rural areas than in large cities. Some high schools in my constituency of South Mosellan do not even offer the seven out of twelve options promised by the minister for each high school. Finally, the overall offer is less. As regards language learning, while Moselle is a border department, close to Germany, only six high schools offer the option and the "German" specialty. In my home, in South Mosellan, there are none! Not a child in my constituency can access this specialty. As for digital education, it is available in very few high schools – in any case, it is not available in any schools in South Mosellan. There is talk of a digital divide and it is regrettable that children living in rural areas have less access to connectivity than others, but this will be compounded by the lack of access to the "digital and computer science" specialty, which will, in the coming years, be an important factor for occupational integration. Finally, as a result of all this, some children from families in South Mosellan who want to follow very specific specialties will have travel times of an hour or an hour and a half a day to go to the high schools of the big cities. Do we really want our 15- or 16-year-olds to go to boarding school every week or spend so much time in transportation every day? Mr Secretary of State, in the school of the Republic, are not all children entitled to equal opportunities? Are we considered to be an adjustment variable for schools in cities and neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u200	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u201	Mr President, I am well aware of this political speech, which consists of opposing neighbourhoods, PERs and REPs + to rural areas, explaining that the duplication of classes in REPs and REPs + was carried out to the detriment of rural areas and that one was taken to give to the other. Jean-Michel Blanquer and I regularly repeat that this is not true. By the start of 2018, there were 32,000 fewer students: if we had followed an accounting logic, we would have had to mechanically remove jobs and classes, while in reality we created them! I understand that you are suggesting, in your question, that we play on the duplication of classes. However, if you ignore all the class splits made in the 2018 school year, you will get a positive balance of 1000 classes created throughout the country while the number of students dropped by 32000 in the first degree. These classes have been created in rural areas: that is why we are able to maintain a high rate of supervision. With regard to the school card from the first level to the beginning of 2019, 12 additional jobs were allocated to the Moselle department, despite a forecast decrease of nearly 1000 pupils. This means that the rate of supervision in your department – the number of teachers per 100 pupils – will increase next year: it will reach 5,57, compared to 5,39 at the beginning of 2013, 5,45 at the beginning of 2017 and 5,50 at the beginning of 2018. So you can see that this progress is continuous. As for the distribution of the specialties within the framework of the reform of the high school, the rector of each academy draws up the academic map of the specialized teachings by ensuring the balance and the proper distribution of the specialized teachings within a geographical framework adapted to the territory. The project for the distribution of specialty teaching in the Nancy-Metz Academy initially provided for German-language teaching to be offered in three public schools and one private school in Moselle. The rectrix has just committed herself to expanding this offer, from the beginning of 2019, in four new establishments in Moselle: the Jean-Moulin high school in Forbach, the Jean-Victor-Poncelet high school in Saint-Avold, the Louis-Vincent high school in Metz and the Félix-Mayer high school in Creutzwald.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u202	Thank you for closing, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u203	As far as digital education is concerned, I hear what you're saying, Mr. Di Filippo, but it's a specialty...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u204	Thank you, Secretary of State. I would remind you that the overall duration of the question, the answer and the possible reply cannot exceed six minutes. This time has expired, but I give the floor to Mr Di Filippo for a very brief statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u205	Mr. Secretary of State, you're predictable until the caricature. As I said, you are giving overall supervision rates,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u206	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u207	... calculated at the departmental level, which do not account for the reality lived in our territories. As far as German education is concerned, the high schools you mentioned are all more than an hour away from my home. How can we do this, Secretary of State? We have to take into account all the territories, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u208	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to put his question, No. 584, on the schedule for colleges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u209	I wanted to ask a question to the Minister for National Education and Youth and to raise a matter of concern to him. Mr Secretary of State to the Minister of National Education and Youth, let me first ask you about the announced decrease in the number of times for low-staffed schools, which will affect four rural colleges in the Department of Cantal at the start of the school year. I therefore naturally associate my colleague Jean-Yves Bony with my question. This reduction in resources is in contrast to what we have known to date and with the efforts made by the departmental council of Cantal, both in investment and in operation, with the stated aim of maintaining a network of local colleges, avoiding too long trips for students, especially in mountain areas, and ultimately strengthening the attractiveness of our institutions, whose presence is essential for the successful implementation of the policy of reception and demographic recovery that we have undertaken. This reduction in resources will have an impact on the organisation and quality of teaching and on the conditions for the exercise of teachers in shared service, in fact, in several schools. So, Mr Secretary of State, I would ask you to ensure that these institutions will be provided with the means necessary for their proper functioning at the beginning of the coming year. Finally, I would like to convey the concerns raised by teachers and pupils' parents about the reform of the high school and, more particularly, the introduction of specialties – a subject that has just been mentioned by Mr Di Filippo. The introduction of these specialties raises the essential question of the training offered by the lycées of the prefectures and sub-prefectures of the rural territories. We question the number of specialties that will actually be offered to pupils, as well as the impact of the reform on the hourly allocation of schools and, consequently, on the numbers of second and common classes, which will increase mechanically. How does the Ministry of National Education and Youth intend to address the concerns of teachers, parents and elected officials?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u210	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u211	Your question, Mr President, allows me to continue the exchange we have just had with Mr Di Filippo, since it also deals with the very important issue of school attendance in rural areas. As you indicate, some rural colleges in the Cantal department have experienced a very significant decline in their numbers. Four colleges in this department will host between 49 and 70 students at the 2019 school year. In the face of this situation, we can only do one thing: innovate to ensure a school presence and access to quality education for all students. The organisations agreed at national level must of course have a specific adaptation for territories like yours. Although the demographic decline is very large, we want to maintain the same level of quality, which is why we are building an educational offer in adapted and innovative ways. The discussion focuses on a number of subjects, including a school organization that allows for educational groups in certain disciplines, such as physical and sports education or the plastic arts, which do not impede the recommendations of the programmes. In addition, these local projects are supported by cultural, sports and community partners in order to develop active and dynamic pedagogy, which is very positive for the content of the teachings for young people. The exchanges are very intense with the main colleges, the teaching teams and the elected representatives. The results are there: the Collèges de Pierrefort and Pleaux quickly rethought their educational organization and designed new schedules; the College of Condat begins to develop new time use assumptions; the mayor of Allanche has formed a working group bringing together all the actors to draw up an educational project in order to increase the staff of the college. Regarding high school specialties – I have not been able to answer Mr Di Filippo's question – the reform of the baccalaureate will play a considerable role in combating inequalities between young people in high school. We want the specialization to be gradual in order to get out of the corridors, silos that pushed young people to enter a sector without being able to get out of it, and to allow them to discover new subjects. Specialties have been created and, together with Jean-Michel Blanquer, we want the academies to offer them as widely as possible. By definition, not all specialties are available in all high schools but we ensure that they are present in all territories and that young people can access them. Sometimes innovative solutions are needed; Sometimes it will be necessary to pass through the National Distance Learning Centre in a transitional way. In any case, we are trying to develop and strengthen this as we move forward. With regard to Cantal, all the institutions will offer all the common teachings. Three of them will offer the specialized teachings "Humanities, Literature and Philosophy" and "Languages, Literatures and Foreign Cultures". Two of them will offer the specialized teachings "Arts", "Literature, Languages and Cultures of Antiquity" and "Digital and Computer Science", which is very much in demand. Finally, the specialization course "Engineering Sciences" will be present in one of the four institutions – the choice has not yet been decided. Your recent and forthcoming exchanges with the Rector will reassure you of the special attention paid by the national education services to the Department of Cantal, which is experiencing a specific situation of population decline. We want to maintain an equivalent level of quality for young people; That's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u212	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u213	The problem is that of colleges in mountain areas. The time taken to transport children can sometimes exceed one hour and a half a day: this justifies keeping small-scale colleges. These colleges are already innovating, with sections of young volunteer firefighters and sports sections, but need resources. Here I would like to commend the efforts made by the Director of Academic Services to try to provide additional resources so that colleges can carry out their missions. The fact that it opened this dialogue proves, if necessary, that the initial allocations were insufficient. As for the specialisation courses at the secondary school, it will be useful, at the next school year, to draw up a very precise assessment of them, because it is imperative that the establishments in the rural territories offer a sufficient and satisfactory offer for the pupils.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u214	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-19-O1156.u215	Next meeting this afternoon at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and public vote on the bill for a school of trust; Discussion of the bill to create the status of the saving citizen, combat cardiac arrest and raise awareness of saving actions. The meeting is adjourned.
