ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u1	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Presidents of the eight groups of the National Assembly on the condemnation of the Turkish military offensive in the north-east of Syria (No. 2356).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u2	In the general discussion, Mr Jean François Mbaye spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u3	On October 7, President Donald Trump, a fanfare of less than 280 characters, chose the channel of the press release to signify, almost in catini, his intention to withdraw the American troops present in northern Syria. Although this unusual restraint was only of short duration, it was unfortunately not followed by any denial of the official statements of the White House, but by confirmation that the geopolitical skill of the American president was still largely perfectable. This observation is shared even in its own camp, since some Republican elected members of Congress did not hesitate to prophesy "a disaster in power". Unfortunately, they did not have to wait long to see reality give substance to their fears: only two days after President Trump's announcement, Turkey launched its "Source of Peace" operation. Everyone will appreciate Ankara's cynicism in his own way by naming a process that has caused, in less than a month, several hundred deaths and forced hundreds of thousands of men, women and children to flee. "This is how war goes! Could anyone answer me no less cynically. But it is a war in which one of the belligerents causes summary executions of civilians in violation of all international standards; a war in which a peace activist, Mrs Havrin Khalaf, was tortured and then brutally murdered because of her political opinions. Such practices are not tolerable, and no armed conflict can justify such serious abuses. [[Applause on some of the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] These circumstances are dramatic, but they are all the more intolerable when we know that they strike our own allies. Without the Syrian democratic forces, our common enemy, the Islamic State, would further extend its territorial influence to the Levant. Let us never forget that it was the presence on the ground of these Kurdish, Arab and Syriac fighters that allowed the destruction of Daesh's fantasized caliphate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u5	After the liberation of the territories under his yoke, the death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi brought a serious setback to the terrorist organization. Nevertheless, as the President of the Republic recalled, this is only a step on the road that will lead the international coalition and its allies towards a total victory over the Islamic State. To definitively defeat Daesh, it is imperative to deprive him of the chaos from which he draws his strength. In this regard, Turkey's offensive against northern Syria is a double moral error. First of all, the Turkish military incursion led to the redeployment of Syrian democratic forces, some of which had the task of guarding prisoners of war from the ranks of Daesh. By forcing them to increase the number of soldiers directly opposed to his army, the Turkish President contributes indirectly but knowingly to the weakening of a mechanism to contain a possible resurgence of the terrorist nebula.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u6	I'm glad you're right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u7	I would like to remind you that the Islamic State does not find its roots in Mosul in 2014, but in the early 2000s in the jails of Camp Bucca in southern Iraq. As long as these prisoners escape the control of our allies, they will therefore be in addition to the risk of a clandestine return to Europe, which is no less important and equally undesirable, of a reconstitution of the forces of Daesh to the Levant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u8	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u9	The fault then lies in President Erdogan's stated aim, which raises at least as much concern as his methods. Ankara claims to establish a "secure zone" in order to return Syrian refugees who have found asylum in its territory. Beyond the national interests defended by Turkey, such an initiative is tantamount to denying the risks of clashes that will necessarily result from the creation of what may be like an open prison. In doing so, Turkey knowingly ignores the consequences of its decision at the regional level, even though it is likely to create a context conducive to the emergence of new armed conflicts, thus contributing to fuelling favourable instability, again here, to a resurgence of Daesh. These considerations, as well as the intolerable human rights violations committed by the Turkish forces, lead to the demand that France should not remain silent or idle, and that it should unequivocally support the Syrian democratic forces. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the chairman of the Committee on Defence, and all the group chairmen responsible for this resolution. This text demonstrates, once again, that our commitment to the most fundamental universal rights goes far beyond our political divisions and honours our Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups, as well as on several benches of the LR, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] For all the reasons I have just explained to you, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. It strongly and decisively condemns Turkey's military offensive in northern Syria, not only in that it constitutes a major moral mistake, but also and above all in that it seriously violates all human rights that our Kurdish friends and allies can legitimately claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u10	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u11	We must take a decision today on a motion for a resolution condemning the Turkish military offensive in the north-east of Syria. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to welcome the group chairmen who supported this initiative. It is the honor of our assembly. Since 9 October, Turkey has launched military operations in northern Syria under Kurdish control. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan threatened to "punish terrorists" from the Syrian-Turkish border if Syrian Kurdish militias did not withdraw from the area within the time frame provided for in the agreement between Ankara and Moscow. Let us learn from the past: in Syria and Iraq, chaos has always benefited the extremes, the Islamists. This chaos, Erdogan Turkey is rebuilding it. It is the same Turkey that has entered into a subcontracting agreement with France and the European Union: that of the jihadists and refugees, which today opens the way for all blackmail. It is the same Turkey which has occupied, since 1974, a Member State of the European Union, Cyprus, in general indifference. It is the same Turkey which has as its sole principle the re-islamization of the country and the return of the Ottoman Empire, which legitimizes the numerous violence committed against minorities and women, which Mr Erdogan considers to be "simple guardians". The same Turkey has contributed to the financing of Daesh, thanks to general passivity, by allowing oil-filled trucks to pass through. This same Turkey, finally, let the future European jihadists in! The Turkish offensive in Syria is a triple mistake. First of all, it is a security mistake: tens of thousands of jihadist prisoners are in north-eastern Syria. Their dispersal would have serious consequences for our security. Even though the Americans, with the coalition, have allowed the death of the leader of Daesh, this war is unfortunately not behind us since 10,000 jihadists, including 500 French, would be imprisoned by the Kurds. Where are they? What will happen to them? Security is the first freedom, the pillar of the cohesion of our society. We can only fear that only one of these executioners will return to our soil. Either the French special forces are in operational capacity to secure the camps where the Islamists are held, or France is asking and organising their transfer to Iraq. One thing is certain: these Islamists must not fall into the hands of the Syrian regime, nor among those of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the risk of blackmail being far too high. This attack is, secondly, a humanitarian mistake. Since the beginning of the month, we can only deplore the deaths of several hundred people, including civilians, more than 300,000 of whom have been thrown on the roads. France must remember this: it is a matter of eliminating the Kurds and replacing them with Syrian refugees, who will be indebted to President Erdogan. One more ethnic cleansing! An investigation by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons was also opened: white phosphorus was allegedly used against Kurds. After the massacre of Eastern Christians, we are witnessing today, with the same passivity, a real ethnic cleansing, as if history were endlessly repeated in this area. Abandoning the Kurds is finally a moral mistake. Erbil, Kobane, Raqqa... Unfortunately, the names of these cities are familiar to us. The Kurds have paid, and continue to pay, alongside us, the price of blood in the war against totalitarianism. Kurdish women, true amazones, force our respect and admiration. Abandoning the Kurds would deny us. To ignore them, to betray us. France must have only one word, that of honour and fidelity to its allies. Let us ban the aerial overflight of Turkish aircraft that bomb civilian populations as they attempt to flee. Let us impose real economic sanctions on Turkey, which exports 50% of its production to the European Union. There are also diplomatic solutions that are not used: why do we not remind our ambassador in Ankara? Why don't European countries get together to do it together? Let us make it clear to Turkey that it will never enter the European Union, and that it is urgent, in these circumstances, to question us about its presence in NATO. Should we not consider reform of the Alliance in order to be able to exclude, or at least warn, one of its Member States whose behaviour is contrary to the values defended by the Alliance since its creation? This blackmail must stop! Let us finally put an end to the erasure of the Hexagon on the international stage. France has a key role to play. It must support a powerful, European, diplomatic initiative in order to put around the table all the people who can stop this conflict. Indignation is necessary, but does not save lives. Western diplomacy has so far been a failure. When he arrived at the Elysée, the current President of the Republic defended a Gaully line between the United States and Russia. We need to open a new page. We need to talk to Syria and Russia; Above all, we must find solutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These solutions will be symbolic, but manipulating the symbol on the world stage remains essential for the triumph of political will. Churchill said in 1938, after the Munich negotiations: "You had to choose between dishonor and war; You have chosen dishonor, and you will have war. It is still time to avoid both war and dishonor. Part of the history of humanity, part of our history, is being written. Let us make sure that this story is not written without Europe and France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u12	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u13	We had defeated Daesh militarily and territorially. His jihadists were imprisoned. The northeastern Syrian communities could begin to build a future for the territory that history had left for them to share. Nearly a hundred years after the treaties of Sèvres and then Lausanne, we could hope that this region of the world, at the cost of immense efforts that remained to be made, finally frees itself from tensions between communities and conflicts between territories that had affected its populations and had regularly destabilized the world. A new unilateral turn of the United States, which the Turkish leaders immediately took advantage of to launch a military aggression, has instead provoked a new hiccup in history, once again anihilating the hope of escaping its fatality. It is up to us here to express an immediate and unreserved condemnation, but also to assume the consequences to be drawn from it in order to defend France's vision, positions and interests on its territory, where it cannot take the risk of new terrorists arriving; in this region of the world, where the law of the strongest must not become the cruel and sterile rule again; in a world where other powers want to act only on the basis of their selfish or regional interests. That is the message of France, that is the message that Europe must carry. This terrible tragedy must make us lucid. It is not tolerable that our fundamental values should be trampled on, that human rights should be violated, that our allies of the Syrian Democratic Forces should see weapons turned against them, that the populations should be displaced, and that a new humanitarian catastrophe that is tantamount to ethnic cleansing should be brought about. It is unbearable that France, which defends an original vision of this region of the world...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u14	We'd like to know which one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u15	...– the peaceful coexistence of peoples, cultures, ethnic groups and religions, cannot do so with the continental multiplication of his message. All those who, by calculation or inconsequence, want to leave Europe or build another without knowing which one...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u16	Come on, Mignola: we're not here for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u17	...must, at these moments, get together again. As we see the world changing again, we need, on the contrary, a European political power. As an economic major, Europe can and must punish financially if the attacks continue. Politically minor, however, she must finally take over her destiny. Europe, together with France at its side, must become a power capable of telling Turkey, in the name of its friendship with the Turkish people, but also because of the distrust which it is inspired by the imperialist decisions of its leaders, that the European Union can no longer be open to the accession of countries that do not share its principles. The right of peoples to self-determination is not the power of peoples to dispose of others. Europe, together with France, must be a power that can protect its external borders and, in order to do so, show solidarity with the border countries. Let us stand alongside Bulgaria or Greece, who will also suffer and suffer exoduses from the Levant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u18	That is not what the Government has done.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u19	Europe, with France at its side, must finally become a military power: let's make a Europe of defence! If we don't do it now, when all the risks are at our doorstep, and the world has never been so dangerous, when will we do it? We cannot fight the law of the strongest unless we are strong ourselves. Let us give ourselves the means to carry a universal message and not just that of momentary and localized interests. Since NATO can become, in a tweet, the disarmed arm of multilateralism abandoned by America, which now considers itself a regional power – it's not even America first anymore, it's America selfish! – we must assume a strong European, diplomatic and military alternative. In this respect, the initiative of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marielle de Sarnez, to bring her European counterparts together to deliver a joint condemnation is salutary. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Minister, that is what the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, but also, I believe, all the democrats here here, expect from the Government. Condemn here, act there, and prepare Europe to become again a stabilizing power of the world. You'll find us by your side.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u20	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u21	At the initiative of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the group chairmen tabled the motion for a resolution that we are considering today, calling on France to condemn the Turkish military offensive in the north-east of Syria. On 9 October, France strongly condemned this offensive, but the condemnation had no effect since the Turkish army carried out air strikes on the four regions of Ras al-Ain, Tall Abyad, Qamishli and Ain Issa. These strikes resulted in the displacement of more than 300,000 civilians and the death of several of them. Following the military offensive between 9 and 22 October, Turkey took control of a territory 120 kilometres long and 30 kilometres deep. At the geopolitical level, Europe has remained a spectator: it has only been able to take note of the decisions taken by Russia, Iran, Turkey and the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad, with the implicit agreement of the United States, concerning territories that are close to its borders. In this situation, Minister, France and Europe face two major challenges. The first concerns the protection of Kurdish civilian populations. In this Chamber, we are all the heirs of the Enlightenment and the ardent defenders of a concept born in France more than 200 years ago: the universality of human rights. This principle of universality has been at the heart of our world order since 1945. With regard to the protection of Kurdish civilian populations, France must take a strong step. I'd like you to clarify the contours. According to the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and their Additional Protocols of 1977, civilians and all those who do not participate in the fighting cannot under any circumstances be attacked, they must be spared and protected. In order to guarantee these principles, the Socialist and Related Group would like France to request the immediate redeployment of the International Committee of the Red Cross. The second issue concerns the strategic positioning of France. It is important that you tell us, Minister, how the President of the Republic and the Government plan to position our country. On 13 March 2018, therefore, a year and a half ago, I asked you in the same Chamber about your position vis-à-vis the Kurds. I regret that your reply at that time was neither precise nor convincing. On October 8, the day before the Turkish strikes, I asked the Prime Minister how France intended to protect the Kurdish civilian populations. He then told me that France would "ensure that the interests of the Kurds are taken into account, whose courage and sacrifices oblige us". Today, the Kurdish fighters, faced with a situation of war threatening their survival, had no choice but to move closer to the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad. Mr Minister, I want you to tell us clearly what you intend to do on three issues: the ban, announced by President Erdogan, from Turkish soil to all Syrians in an irregular situation from tonight – these Syrians, to the number of 2 million, would be expelled from Turkey to the north of Syria, precisely in the area that Turkey has taken control of. Secondly, the danger of the new balance emerging. We know that the destabilization carried out in Iraq by the Americans in 2003 indirectly contributed to the emergence of Daesh. It is therefore essential to avoid the formation or reconstitution of terrorist forces that would aggregate in response to this new balance. Third subject, the jihadist prisoners of French nationality who, until now, were held by the Kurds. In March 2017, Bernard Cazeneuve organized an inter-ministerial meeting, which you probably took part in, to ensure that these terrorists were tried and imprisoned. Minister, do you think that the Kurds, who have not benefited in the last few weeks from the protection of the international coalition, will continue to guard the jihadist prisoners for a long time? In fact, this guard is no longer secure, as we know that several jihadist women and their children escaped to flee the Turkish bombings. Minister, in the face of this situation, what solution do you envisage? Repatriation with judgment or some other way? [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches. – Mrs Valérie Boyer and Ms Geneviève Levy and Mr Christophe Naegelen also applaud]] In summary, in the face of the humanitarian challenge and the three geopolitical challenges I have just mentioned, whose consequences for our internal security are undeniable, the Government's response is indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u22	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u23	It is on the basis of a broad consensus that we are meeting today in this Chamber – it is rare enough to be stressed and it is a testament to the importance of the moment. Initiated by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marielle de Sarnez, the strong proposal to condemn the Turkish military offensive in the north-east of Syria has been taken up by all the groups in this House. It was indeed urgent for our Kurdish allies to know that France, through the voice of its national representation, is aware of the tragedy that they are experiencing and that our country will not let them down. Westerners have a moral debt to the Kurdish people, who, let us recall, have fought for the military defeat of the Islamic State. On 15 October, the president of the UDI group, Agir et indépendants, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, who is also chairman of the Kurdish study group, recalled what France owes to these freedom fighters. It is indeed the Kurds who have paid the most for the price of blood; It was they who were in the front line on the front; They are the ones who have healed the wounds of their fighters and the moral suffering of the bereaved families. Despite this moral debt that binds the West, our Kurdish allies have loosely been sacrificed on the altar of political interests. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is economically weakened and politically fragile and is agitating the terrorist threat to maintain power. Under this pretext, the Turkish President ignores democracy and can tomorrow decide, as he sees fit, to replace the democratically elected Kurdish mayors with officials appointed by his party. The Turkish President also arrogates the right to invade a neighbouring country in order to massacre entire populations there, with the help of his terrorist agents, on the grounds that their presence alone would constitute an overriding threat to the security and sustainability of Turkey. On the American side, blinded by lame and short-term electoral calculations, President Trump betrayed and released his most faithful ally, forgetting that the Kurdish people were the only strategic lever he had in the region. Through his procrastination, the US President has consented to the launch of the Turkish military operation and, therefore, to the inevitable massacre of the Kurds. Although apparently sanctions were imposed against Turkish officials and a five-day truce was decided, the only result of the weakness of American acts was to confirm a state of affairs, in accordance with Ankara's will. The US President's misdemeanour, while deeply demeaning the value of his country's words, has compromised the possible military alliances that the United States could forge in the future. But Europe has done no better. Faced with these successive abandonments, it should have taken responsibility and acted immediately to help its Kurdish allies. As soon as the operation was launched, it should have imposed a no-fly zone to protect the population from the bombing of Turkish aviation. As the main importer of Turkish products, it should have used economic leverage to force Turkey to withdraw from Syria. The countries of the European Union, members of NATO, should also have put pressure on Turkey to suspend the Atlantic Alliance. Unfortunately, the European Union, an economic giant, remains a political dwarf. Its Member States have been unable to impose a simple European arms embargo on Turkey. Given that the Turkish regime buys both Russian military equipment and participates in US military weapons programmes, however, the relevance of such a sanction may be questioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u24	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u25	Faced with the false American oaths and European weakness, our Kurdish allies were forced, under penalty of being massacred, to conclude a Faustian pact with Syria and Russia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u26	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u27	The motion for a resolution comes late, but it highlights the shortcomings and weakness of the European Union. In the face of an increasingly unstable and dangerous world, in which the certainties on which our countries agreed, it is important to return to those principles which have made Europe and to values such as the word given and recognition. It is important to build a Europe that is not ashamed by looking in a mirror. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and on some benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u28	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u29	On Wednesday 9 October 2019, the day of the launch of the Turkish military offensive in northern Syria against Kurdish fighters, members of the Freedom and Territory Group were deeply indignant, like many others in this Chamber. François Pupponi and I, after consulting the Kurdish associations, proposed, as a first initiative, the publication of a forum which fifty-eight parliamentarians co-signed; I would like to thank them very much again. Above all, on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I would like to pay tribute to the trans-party approach initiated by Marielle de Sarnez. This resolution allows us to jointly affirm our indignation at this offensive against those who – we must recall – are our allies in the face of Islamist barbarism. We deplore the inaction of the Western Powers in the face of this violation of international law. This military operation is all the more serious as it further destabilizes a region that has already paid a heavy price since 2011 and the beginning of the Syrian civil war. How many times did we not at the time censor these brave Kurdish resistance against Daesh, all those women and men who fought tirelessly for the defence of our democratic values, for the protection of our freedoms, for our security?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] But since October 9, 2019, nothing more! The Kurds, the world's largest people without a state, have been oppressed for decades. Yet they were the ones who resisted and committed themselves to this struggle against cruelty, with courage forcing admiration; I am thinking in particular of the bravery of female combatants. Yes, it was the Kurds who allowed the dismantling of the Islamic State, going as far as the capture of Raqqa. We are indebted! It is the duty of France and the European Union to defend those who have stood by us against those who represent nothing but inhumanity. As the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution points out, we are already deploring hundreds of deaths, including many civilians, as well as more than 300,000 displaced persons. How far does this have to go? What are we waiting for to take firm steps to impose an end to hostilities on Turkish President Erdogan? This war of aggression must cease without delay, because it is no more than a new ethnic cleansing operation from Turkey. President Erdogan's decision to attack Kurdish forces is not, in the end, surprising. Is it not part of the continuation of a strategy, carried out for many years, aimed at annihilating the Kurdish population of Syria and preventing the creation of an autonomous region in Rojava? Mr Erdogan does not hide from this, his objective is to hunt down and replace the Kurdish population in order to take control of a buffer zone in northern Syria along the Turkish border, in order, I quote, "to return the region to its true owners". In addition to the humanitarian catastrophe, even more serious is the weakening of Kurdish forces, which could open a breach from which Daesh could once again profit. Not only is Turkey attacking our allies, but it is endangering international security, particularly that of Europe and France, which are facing Islamist terrorist attacks. For our security, France must take its responsibility to put an end to this carnage, as in 1991, when it participated in the creation of a security zone for the Iraqi Kurds chased by Saddam Hussein. This initiative led to the emergence of a peaceful, democratic and prosperous Iraqi Kurdistan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u32	Democratic? You're losing your mind, Mr. Acquaviva!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u33	The Syrian Kurds, too, deserve international protection to make a democratic and peaceful future possible. Minister, all diplomatic means must therefore be activated to get out of this crisis. In particular, the negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union must cease, with President Erdogan once again proving that he does not share any of our values. Given the threat to our security, I even believe that the process of suspension of Turkey from NATO must be initiated. Since the United States, for its part, has fled its responsibilities by withdrawing its troops from the region, we call on Europe and France not to leave Mr Erdogan free and to impose sanctions of a historic scale against Turkey. This strong commitment would show the international community that we are still in a position to defend our strategic interests, protect our allies, and defend human rights and freedoms. In other words, let us show that Europe is still able to make history! [[Applause on the benches of the LT group, as well as on some benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LR]] As you will understand, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u34	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u35	[[Applause on many benches]] First of all, I would like to express my gratitude and patriotic gratitude to the chairman of our Committee on Foreign Affairs, who is holding this meeting. On his initiative, this text was agreed between us, the presidents of the political groups, so that it would have made it possible for a moment to honour France. The National Assembly of the French Republic meets in order to unanimously condemn Turkey's military intervention and to salute the role of the Kurds in the fight against the tyranny of obscurantism. Thank you, ma'am, for making this moment possible. Having said that, we are not going to decide anything other than this condemnation, which will weigh no less heavily and will be seen as a comfort by the combatants and all those who believe in democracy. It's already huge! If we were to go into detail, we would probably separate ourselves again between different options. It is important, however, that this moment of French unanimity should take place. France maintains with Syria – it is also true with Iraq – an old acquiescence. After the First World War, we had a mandate, albeit a neocolonial one, for this country, which lasted from 1920 to 1946. Also, since things are what they are, a familiarity has been created between the Syrians and the French, and whatever the avatars of the successive political regimes of the two countries may have been. We are interested in this historical continuity and it is appropriate, Minister, to restore it. It is therefore necessary to reopen the French Embassy in Baghdad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u37	You mean Damascus, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u38	There's no need to shut it down. Even if one is absolutely opposed to the Syrian regime – which I understand perfectly and to which I can adhere without difficulty – one cannot both have an embassy in Qatar or Saudi Arabia, which are not regimes close to ours, and not have one in Damascus – and not Baghdad, I apologize, even if I am about to tell you about it. It will also be necessary to reopen the lycée Charles de Gaulle and to contribute to its restart, for it is in this place that the Syrian elites – or part of them – have learned our language and, through it, the thought of the Enlightenment. If I mention all this, it is because I see that the balance sheet is disastrous. France is eliminated! I'm not going to try you personally, minister, but I'm forced to say so. From the point of view of your own logic – which I do not share – who wins this case? The Russians, whom you presented as enemies and whom I have always seen as partners and allies. Fortunately, Russia was there, because it was Russia that, in a year, managed to settle what all the other countries together were unable to do, that is, to crush the so-called army of the so-called Islamic State. Since then, we've been nothing. At the shooting of Turkey, supposed to be our NATO ally, our soldiers only respond in the moment, without further action. It would have been necessary to continue the response, for it is not for the Turks to decide whether the French have the right to be in Syria!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u39	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Leaving the country in the baggage of the American army is therefore calamitous, because the world now knows that when the Americans leave, the French too! With me, on the contrary, we would have stayed, and we would have seen who, at the end, would have had the last word! It is not the President of the Turkish Republic who has the power to decide what the French are doing! From your point of view, therefore, I believe that this is a disaster, even if it was predictable with a long hand. Was it reasonable to keep the Kurdistan Workers' Party – PKK – of which I am not a member – on the list of terrorist organizations when it was a decisive fighting force to win? Was it reasonable to leave Mr Öcalan in prison when we were negotiating the amount given to the Turks to keep the borders with Europe? Would it not have been better if he had been released so that he could take over the leadership of his troops and wage the fight against the armed Islamists? Was it reasonable to be so ambiguous with regard to Daesh? Do I have to recall that a French foreign minister felt that the al-Nosra front was doing "good work"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u41	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u42	And today it is Iraq's turn to be in a citizen revolution. Minister, we can no longer watch the trains pass! France must reaffirm its centrality. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] I thank you once again, Mrs de Sarnez, for at least allowing us to affirm our common support for those who fight Islamist terrorists.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u43	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u44	That the eight group presidents unite around a resolution condemning the Turkish military offensive is extraordinary and exemplary. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The debate that we have today, however, sheds great and terrible light on the authoritarian drift of Turkish power, which is facing the failures of its social and economic policy and is radicalizing itself as a result of the scathing electoral defeats that it has suffered throughout the country, particularly in Istanbul. In an exsangued Turkey, this military offensive can be understood as a desperate attempt by the Turkish power to make a diversion by attacking a fantasized enemy, the Kurdistan Workers' Party – the PKK – whose Communist deputies persist in calling for exclusion from the list of organisations considered terrorist by the Council of the European Union. The Communist MEPs salute all those who brave the regime and try, at all costs, to make democracy live in Turkey. The mistakes of their leaders must never be brought to people's attention. With this resolution, our Assembly will not remain silent on these serious events; The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left welcomes this. This offensive constitutes a triple violation of international law. First of all, it constitutes a territorial annexation of Rojava, which is contrary to respect for borders and shows total contempt for the sovereignty of the Syrian State. It then pursues the objective of creating an area populated by Syrians currently refugees in Turkey. The deportation of populations must be denounced with the utmost firmness. It is finally being carried out to eliminate the Syrian Kurds living in that territory. Let us affirm that this is an ethnic cleansing and a major tragedy. We express our full solidarity with these peoples who are fighting under bombs. This Turkish operation is all the more unbearable because the Syrian democratic forces that are under attack are composed mainly of the Kurds forming the People's Protection Units – the YPGs. These women and men are our allies: they fought on the ground against Daesh, held the ground and agreed to the greatest human sacrifices. The cities of Rojava are decimated and the photos of the women and men who died in battle bloom everywhere in public places. Let us not forget that these citizens have taken up arms to protect not only their region, but also the whole world, against the territorial increase of Daesh. Rojava is also a political construction, the fruit of a progressive revolution that must be valued. In the midst of war, the region managed to organize itself according to the principle of equality between women and men, advocating secularism, overcoming ethnic and religious divisions and promoting peaceful political construction. In a word, this is an example for us. The political experience of Rojava is now compromised by the slowness of Europe to oppose the absurdity of American politics and the violence of Turkish politics. Would the suffocation of this experience help the leaders of our ultraliberal world? Erdogan's power has in any case not been affected in this action. France must act, and the means exist. Although... If Erdogan's power has not been disturbed by the international community, it may be because of Turkey's membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u45	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u46	The alliance mechanism today blocks all NATO states, and therefore France, who wish to condemn and act against this military offensive. Here, proof is given of NATO's harmfulness. The Communist MEPs have already asked for this and say it again here: France must leave NATO and we must work to dissolve this organisation, which is of interest only to arms dealers. Turkey's place in NATO is all the more important as it hosts United States nuclear weapons on its territory, which reinforces the alliance's embarrassment of going against American interests. In Turkey and elsewhere, nuclear weapons are an obstacle to diplomacy and discussion, and thus to peace. These weapons are harmful, no matter where they are. Communist MEPs will continue to denounce their existence, as they pose an intolerable threat to humanity and the environment. We will always campaign for our country to act for global and total disarmament. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The Communist Members will vote for the motion for a resolution, stressing the importance, particularly in this region of the world, of this feminist, secular and pacifist revolution, recalling that the effect of nuclear weapons and NATO leads us to the impasse in which we are today and especially thanking Marielle de Sarnez for her listening and reactivity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u47	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u48	The Syrian civil war has been going on for more than eight years. It killed half a million people and exiled 5 to 6 million people from their homes, a quarter of the population. Today, we are still confronted with the fact that one country, Turkey, our NATO partner, has annexed territory in violation of international law and that people are being expelled; We can't leave things as they are. As for the creation of a security zone, it actually marks the end of the dream of autonomy of the Kurdish people of Syria. Sitting on the comfortable benches of this House, having for the most part never experienced a war on our soil, we find it difficult to realize the magnitude of this tragedy. We find it difficult to realize the complexity of the terrain, of religious, ethnic and political factors, of alliances of circumstance. We do not realize the magnitude of the courage of all those who have committed themselves, the weapons in hand, the fear in the belly and the courage in the heart. I would like to begin by paying tribute to them. I would like to thank all the soldiers engaged against the Islamic State. I would like to express my admiration for the young French soldiers involved in this conflict. Ten young Frenchmen have just left to fight the enemy, ten young true heroes, capable of committing themselves. In this fight against the Islamic State, the Kurds have often been on the front line. They fought to defend their right to exist as a people, and thus defended our own security. They have stood up against those who were bloody our country with terrorism. The Turkish offensive directly threatens this right of the Kurds to exist as a people. Let us remember the genocide that exterminated 70 per cent of the Armenian population in Turkey, and the same proportion of Greeks and Syrians. Sitting on the comfortable benches of this House, we cannot see the scale of this tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, will we allow history to repeat itself? We all know here that Turkey's interest, cold and geostrategic, is to erase the Kurdish presence, which it perceives as a direct threat. Turkey is threatening the Kurdish people. Proud of having defeated, however, the Kurds were worn out, exhausted, bleeded by the war they were the first to wage. And Turkey wants to give them the blow of grace. Sitting on the comfortable benches of this Chamber, we multiply the beautiful speeches. Only, ladies and gentlemen, we are not an eloquence contest! We are the decision-making heart of the fifth world military power, in addition to the driving force of the European Union. France has the means to defend a strong political vision and to make a voice heard in the world. We've heard that voice in the past. Let us remember the great hours of French diplomacy, in particular the 2003 speech at the UN against the war in Iraq. On that day, ladies and gentlemen, the whole world heard the voice of France, able not only to speak with all stakeholders, but also to make powerful and truly courageous decisions. Again, history summons us. And we can choose to show the same courage. We must not let history repeat itself. We must have the courage to call for the abolition of pre-accession funds from the European Union. How can we imagine for one second that this Turkey has its place among us? We must have the courage to question his presence in NATO. The country that claims to be our ally must understand the scope of its act and its consequences. We must have the courage to denounce the migrant blackmail imposed on us by Turkey and the double game it has played with Islamist terrorism since the beginning of the conflict, which directly threatens the security of our own citizens on our own soil. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mr. Christophe Naegelen also applauds]] We must have the courage to condemn the Turkish military offensive in the north-east of Syria. It is about the very existence of the Kurdish people. It is about the very security of the French people. It is about the image of France among the nations and our honour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u49	The general discussion is closed. The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u50	For the first time in the history of our House, all the group presidents together support a common political declaration. I want to thank them for that. This rare and solemn gesture of unity in our Parliament is a symbol. Turkish military operations in the north-east of Syria flout fundamental values and vital interests, which must be defended. At this time, we deplore several hundred deaths and the departure of nearly 300,000 people on the roads of exile, as well as unbearable abuses, which continue to be carried out on the ground by the substitutes of the Turkish army. Thanks to the sacrifice of the Syrian Democratic Forces, who had fought Daesh on our behalf,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u52	... the Syrian north-east had become an area of stability in which the various local populations were building a start of dialogue, democratic and egalitarian, sharp with obscurantism in the region. The road was still long, but these developments were promising for the future of Syria as a whole. The Syrian north-eastern region showed what the country could have aspired to become: a decentralized Syria, inclusive and respectful of minorities. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM and LT groups]] The Turkish offensive against the Kurds and their Arab and Christian allies, made possible by the American crackdown, is a breach of confidence. This serious situation leads us to question the future of our alliances, both within the international coalition against Daesh and also within NATO. Once again, in the face of the inconsequence of American decisions, it reveals the urgent need for France and Europe to acquire, as soon as possible, a genuine autonomy of thought and action. This dramatic situation must give rise to a start. Our credibility is at stake. Our silence and inaction are encouragements to harm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u54	In the face of President Erdogan's hegemonism, there is only one way to go: that of firmness. Let us not be mistaken, the death of Al-Baghdadi does not mean the end of our fight against international terrorism...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u55	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u56	...and against Daesh in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u58	The terrorist organization has not been defeated. It has been defeated territorially thanks to the support and sacrifice of the Syrian Democratic Forces, but ideology is still there, and Daesh's numerous clandestine cells are more than ever a threat to security in the Middle East and Europe. The chaos caused by Turkish operations favours the resurgence of Daesh and greatly increases the risk of dispersal of foreign terrorist fighters currently detained in the north-east of Syria. Today, a new balance of forces is emerging on the ground, between Russia, Turkey, Iran and the Damascus regime. In order to continue to weigh, if not simply to exist, in the Levant, we must, without further delay, rethink our collective action against Daesh, rebuild a strong and solidarity-based coalition capable of faithfully leading the long-term fight against terrorism. In the face of the humanitarian catastrophe that is worsening from time to time, we condemn Ankara's strategy of forced relocation of thousands of refugees, whose only objective is to change the ethnic composition of the north-east of Syria on a lasting basis. Such an operation to drive out the many minorities present – Kurdish, Christian, Syriac, Yezidi – could only lead to new conflicts. No democracy should accept it. [[Applause on many benches]] Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, our unanimous condemnation today must be translated into firm and resolute actions. [[Applause on all benches]] Our determination to act to stabilize the Syrian North-East and, more broadly, the Middle East, which is currently exposed to many upheavals, from Iraq to Lebanon, will depend on part of the stability of the world. At a time when this region is tipping into violence, injustice and risk, it is right and necessary that we call on France and Europe to live up to history.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u59	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u60	Allow me to recall in the preamble the stakes and reasons that led to the intervention of an international coalition in the Irako-Syrian area. The objectives of the international coalition are contained in resolution 2249, presented at the initiative of France and adopted unanimously by the Security Council in November 2015, following the Paris attacks of 13 November, sponsored, we must remember, since Raqqa. This resolution recalls that "the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant... constitutes a global threat of unprecedented gravity". It calls on the Member States to "take all necessary measures" and "to redouble their efforts [...] to prevent and stop acts of terrorism". We have fought this battle against terrorism, and we have won it by putting an end to the caliphate. Since the victory of Baghouz last March, Daesh has lost control of territory. The Kurds, many of you rightly recalled, have given decisive help to this victory. They paid their share of the cost of their blood, since it is estimated that 13,000 people were killed in the Syrian Democratic Forces – 30 per cent of whom, I recall, were women – and that 23,000 were wounded. They are amply worthy of the name brothers of arms in this fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u61	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u62	The Americans also played their part. By providing decisive support in command and logistics, they were the backbone of this coalition. Despite military successes, however, the war on terrorism was not definitively won, and the recent death of Daesh leader Al-Baghdadi did not change that. There are many cells in the region and the expansion of Daesh continues in Africa: Mali, Burkina Faso, Somalia, and more recently Mozambique. To eradicate terrorism, after winning the war, we now had to win peace through the stabilization and reconstruction of the region. It is over the last five years of efforts in this direction that the Turkish intervention has swept away, questioning our strategy. The attack on Syrian territory was authorized by the United States and the announcement of their withdrawal. The Turkish intervention raises many questions. First of all, the fate of the Kurds, our brothers and sisters in arms. There are already nearly 300,000 internally displaced persons and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights is documenting a series of abuses against them, many of which constitute war crimes. The prospect of an autonomous region in north-eastern Syria, with a predominantly Kurdish government, is seriously compromised. The second question is the strengthening of Daesh. The Syrian Democratic Forces – SDS – played a very active role, supported by the West, in the fight against Daesh cells; Kurdish militias still control prisons where jihadist fighters captured in the liberation struggles of their territory are locked up. The Turkish attack calls these gains into question and there are already escapes. Is it realistic to count on Bashar al-Assad to fight the jihadists? Our action against Daesh will become much more difficult, as it will have to be carried out without the support of local forces and from Iraqi territory. The main beneficiary of our divisions in NATO is Russia. In the face of this fiasco, what can we do? We cannot content ourselves with the current status quo, with part of Syria occupied by the Turks and millions of displaced persons and refugees. We have already taken steps, the most visible of which is the arms embargo on Turkey. We must continue – this is a moral imperative – to advocate the cause of the Kurds in the context of a future political settlement. In line with the objectives of the President of the Republic, we will still need to build strategic European defence autonomy. We cannot continue to suffer the decisions of allies contrary to our strategic interests. But to be listened to, we also need to be able to act. That is what I would ask you not to forget in a few moments, ladies and gentlemen, when voting on the appropriations for the Defence Mission. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR and GDR groups]] In conclusion, I would also like to congratulate you, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, dear Marielle de Sarnez, on your good initiative. You have allowed us to experience a beautiful republican moment of unanimity, and fraternity with the Kurdish people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u63	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u64	As you all pointed out, the offensive launched by Turkey in early October and the concomitant withdrawal of US forces led to a very serious situation in north-eastern Syria. It is likely to undermine the outcome of the five-year effort of the international coalition against Daesh, with the partnership of the Syrian Democratic Forces. That is why the Government supports this motion for a resolution. The Government clearly condemned the Turkish offensive and shared that condemnation by the twenty-eight member States of the European Union, which was not acquired in advance. So we are living here for a moment. I do not always agree with Mr Mélenchon, but he said earlier that our unanimous condemnation could weigh heavily: yes, it will weigh heavily. I welcome Mrs de Sarnez's initiative. Without detailing the situation on the ground at length, I would point out that, as you must know, the content of the agreement between the Americans and the Turks is largely overturned by the arrangement reached at Sochi on 22 October, which marks the return of the Syrian regime and Russia to the north-east of Syria, a logical consequence of the American decision of 13 October to withdraw from coalition forces. The Turkish-Russian agreement is unfolding. The Syrian Democratic Forces have indicated that at this stage they are ready to respect the negotiated arrangement between Russians and Turks and to withdraw from the border areas between Syria and Turkey; We are closely observing the implementation of this provision, an important element for the future of the fight against Daesh, given the irreplaceable contribution that the Syrian Democratic Forces have made with courage to the coalition's operations since 2015. I would also like to recall the story. Those that made possible the territorial eradication of Daesh, it was the coalition forces, second of which was France, and of which the Iraqi forces were part, that paid a heavy price in this fight; In particular, the Syrian Democratic Forces, in support of the ground, have freed the symbolic city of Raqqa, to which we have a special interest. Other winners should not declare themselves a posteriori; I think it is all the more useful to say that the territorial defeat of Daesh is recent, since it dates back to March with the Battle of Baghouz. After its territorial defeat, the organization chose to rebuild itself underground. As many of you have pointed out, the end of Daesh's territorial control, achieved by a very hard fight, did not mean its eradication. It ended its territorial organization in Iraq and then Syria, but the defenders of Daesh did not disappear. They have either entered into hiding or are held in camps or prisons. The death of Al-Baghdadi, leader of Daesh, is another blow to this terrorist organization, but this blow is not fatal; It is only a step towards definitive defeat. The fight is not over, we must pursue it collectively, with unbroken determination, within the framework of the coalition. The chaos created by the Ankara offensive thus allows the resurgence of Daesh. Several recent attacks have taken place in Syria, including in Raqqa and Qamishli, showing that it is on its way. In this context, it is essential to ensure that Daesh fighters remain detained in safe and reliable conditions. This is the case for the most part, the situation is generally under control, but we must follow its development in detail and with great attention – I will return to it. After the death of Al-Baghdadi, and arrived at this point in the debate, I would like to have a thought for the victims of Daesh; They were French, Iraqi, Syrian, and many other nationalities. For it was Al-Baghdadi who, after participating in the capture of Mosul and the atrocities committed by Daesh in Iraq, led the terrorist organization when it planned the attacks in Paris in November 2015; It has also sponsored many other crimes subsequently committed, including in Turkey. This country has not been spared by the attacks in Daesh. He must be reminded of this: thirty-five attacks have taken place on his soil, causing 400 deaths and nearly 1500 injuries since 2013. [[Applause on many benches]] Let me also pay tribute to the actions of the Syrian Democratic Forces, composed of Kurds and Arabs: the courage of the men and women who make up them, the sacrifices they have made in the face of the common enemy represented by Daesh, call for our full gratitude. The President of the Republic has testified to this on several occasions. We are still in contact with them, with Mrs. Ilham Ahmed and Commander Mazloum Abdi; Whatever the evolution of events on the ground, we will pay attention to the situation of the SDS, who paid the price of blood to Daesh, alongside our forces, to those of the coalition: this joint fight obliges us and we are indebted to the Syrian Democratic Forces. Another consequence of the Turkish offensive is the deterioration of the humanitarian situation. Nearly 200,000 people were thrown on the roads of the exodus, in a country that already has 7 million internally displaced persons and 5 million refugees; More than 50 per cent of the Syrian population is already refugees or displaced. Hospitals are saturated. The situation could destabilize the autonomous region of Iraqi Kurdistan, which is slowly recovering from the grip of Daesh. I was there a few days ago to provide France's support to the Kurds through them. As has been said, Daesh remains very active in Iraq, where the organization is trying to prepare for its return to hiding. All my interlocutors, both in Baghdad and Erbil, expressed their deep concern. The Iraqi political situation only strengthens this resurgence capability of Daesh; So this fight is still ahead of us. In addition to these humanitarian consequences, which we want to address, there is an indirect migration consequence. Ankara has threatened a massive influx of Syrian refugees. This is not the first time that President Erdogan has taken up this antienne, but this instrumentalisation of people's misfortune is unacceptable to us. We must assert this forcefully: we will not give in to this blackmail. I would add that we cannot accept the forced displacement of Syrian refugees in Turkey. We have made clear our condemnation of the Turkish plan to forcibly resettle Syrian refugees in the north-east, including those from other areas of Syria. The return of Syrian refugees must be safe, voluntary and in accordance with international law and the principles of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR): no other plan will be able to receive political and financial support from the Member States of the European Union, nor, of course, from France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u66	The third issue concerns regional stability. The Turkish offensive takes us away from a political solution to the Syrian crisis, on which our security, the future of Syria and the security of its neighbours depend. In the long run, it could even favour the resumption of a military offensive in the north-west, on Idlib, in parallel with the regime's resumption of control of the north-east. All this is now largely subject to the will of Russia and Turkey. In this context, the beginning of the work of the Syrian constitutional committee, even today in Geneva, is a step in the right direction. However, the approach seems far removed from the reality of the situation on the ground; It will only be effective if it is accompanied by concrete measures at the political level, the beginning of which is not yet visible. From the beginning of the Turkish offensive, France proposed a coalition ministerial meeting against Daesh. We were indeed extremely surprised: when it was created, all the countries concerned had come together to decide on a joint action; As the coalition began to win significant territorial victories, two members – the United States of America and Turkey – took initiatives, without consulting it, contrary to its logic of fighting the terrorist organization. We have requested the coalition meeting, which, with the approval of all the members of the European Union, will take place on 14 November. Of course, France will participate. During this clarification and verification meeting, I will send a frank and demanding message to our partners. First, we will have to agree on the need to continue the efforts of the coalition against Daesh and to update the plans to that end. Everyone has to take into account the evolution of the past few weeks. We hope that each member of the coalition will assume his or her responsibilities and that we will draw conclusions from them. In this new context, a clarification of the intentions of each coalition partner is needed. The question is simple: how can we continue the fight against Daesh together? The answer must be clear. The word must be faithful. It must also be consistent, supportive and supportive of the respect and autonomy of the Syrian Democratic Forces. It is the great challenge of this ministerial meeting which we have wanted and which will finally be held that of making this essential clarification. I also hope that the coalition meeting will allow for a very frank discussion on the Daesh fighters. This issue is central to the security of the region, Iraq and also France. I understand the repetition of questions about French fighters. These are sixty-two. This sizeable figure may seem relatively low considering that more than 10,000 Daesh fighters are being held in Northeastern Syrian prisons. We must deal globally with the issue of combatants and ensure that it is central to the Russians, Tunisians, Moroccans and Iraqis, so that we can provide a collective response with those who wish to do so. Finally, the coalition meeting will need to take a specific look at our humanitarian support and stabilization activities. Beyond the Syrian north-east, Iraq, which is in a very difficult situation, must also be able to benefit from aid and support to cope with the influx of additional refugees from Syria. Beyond the coalition, and this verification and clarification meeting, it will also be important – as some of you pointed out – to clarify, at the beginning of December, so 15 days later, at the NATO summit, the status of Turkey as NATO's ally. The meeting must be an opportunity for an important exchange between allies, a frank and demanding exchange, an exchange with the American position as well as with the Turkish position. As you know, the President of the Republic has indicated his willingness to participate in a preparatory meeting with the British Prime Minister, the German Chancellor and the President of the Republic of Turkey to discuss, before this meeting, the state of our relations with Turkey. This offer is always on the table, guaranteeing a clear desire for clarification of each other's intentions. I would remind you that we have suspended our aid to Turkey and that we will have an extremely firm, clear and demanding position in the next two meetings. Finally, at the instigation of some of you, I would like to return to one point. I had the opportunity to say to the National Assembly a few days ago that I had experienced two tragic moments of the Syrian civil war. On August 31, 2013, as Minister of Defence, I noted the impact of an American non-action decision. On October 13, 2019, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I again observed the consequences of a US non-action decision. Since this crisis, I believe we are at a strategic turning point, which shows us the urgent need for a real European surge. We must move towards more European sovereignty and more European strategic autonomy. The time for shared responsibility has come. Europe must assume its own responsibility. The time for the European demand has also come. Otherwise, Europe will emerge from history. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LT, UDI-Agir, LR, SOC and GDR groups]] It must be recognised that the concomitance between Turkish action and American decision-making is causing trouble in the transatlantic relationship. I wanted to say that at the end of our debate. The Government appreciates the unanimity in this House, as well as the common will to continue the fight against terrorism and to solemnly affirm here our solidarity with the Syrian Democratic Forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u67	On the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u68	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u69	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 121 Number of votes cast 121 Absolute majority 61 For adoption 121 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u70	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u71	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u72	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u73	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for defence missions (No. 2301, vol. III, annexes 13 and 14; No 2303, volume IV; No. 2305, Volumes II, III, IV, V, VI, VII) and "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" (No. 2301, Volume III, Annex 7; 2305, Volume I). Mr Cornut-Gentille, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u74	According to the view adopted, it is possible to carry out two very different readings of the 2020 budget of the Defence Mission. If we stick to a technical and instant approach, what the Government and its majority are proposing, the budget seems to be strengthened and consolidated, that is beyond question. But if we step back, in space and time, we can highlight very serious weaknesses. That is the apparent paradox that I propose to examine. The optimistic perspective can be based on tangible arguments, the main one being compliance with the military programming law – LPM. March after march, the forecast of budgetary growth of EUR 1.7 billion is realized, which is not nothing. Similarly, the inclusion in the external operations budget – OPEX – takes place at the expected pace. In addition, many initiatives show real dynamism. Examples include the creation of the Space Command, the displayed voluntarism for the reform of the system of maintenance in operational condition, or, in a more anecdotal way, the sympathetic activism deployed on the theme of innovation. The whole, compared to other less privileged departments, gives the image of a military institution that sets its course despite the difficulties of the moment. The road seems clearly marked, the future assured. We must therefore welcome this significant recovery, and I fully understand the satisfaction of all those who contribute to it. I believe, however, that it would be misleading and reducing to stay there. Indeed, as we broaden the perspective, we have a worrying picture. It is time to understand that we have illusions when we have the idea that our European defence adership is acquired. Of course, the quality and I would dare say the productivity of our defence are admirable, but this first place, which we are always trying to occupy, is it tenable in the long term, when the differential compared to the British budget is more than 10 billion euros? At the point where we are at, we can even wonder if we will be able to retain second place, since from now on the German budget is significantly higher than ours, but, as everyone knows, without nuclear power. It deserves to be stopped. Can we continue to act as if this relegation did not exist, just talk about it as a risk, when it is already a reality? How can we not see that this changes everything, especially for this Europe of the defence we once imagined, in a completely different environment? What is our strategy in the face of this major shift? Mystery. We grasp the paradox of the situation: the recovery committed is very real, but it does not allow us to stop the downgrading in progress. In this context, despite the efforts made, the future does not appear bright, but extremely difficult, and the additional EUR 3 billion of budget going forward from 2023 onwards is not a luxury. It is the strict necessary not to aggravate the situation. But there is no guarantee that we will be able to cross it. Madam Minister, I very much acknowledge the strengths of your budget and I will not blame you for being responsible for the downgrading that I have just mentioned. It would be unfair to attribute it to this government, when the process is older. On the other hand, I regret that you do not dare to open the necessary debate that the situation calls for, in order to redefine a credible strategy. Of course, I am aware of the work of the strategic review of national defence and security, which was conducted with the utmost seriousness. However, you are well aware that, despite the name, this was essentially a budget scoping, which also did not include the central pillar of nuclear power. The real strategic debate on France's ambitions and the means to achieve them, indispensable and expected by the staffs, has never taken place. The duty of the President of the Republic would be to open it and not to circumvent national representation. [[Congratulations and applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, I would say that it is good to move forward, but it would be wise to finally ask ourselves where we are and where we are going. There is an urgent need, because it is certain that by 2023, when we are at the foot of the financial wall, it will be too late to ask these questions usefully. Let's do it again while it's still time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u75	Mr Olivier Gaillard, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u76	The debate that has just taken place on the Turkish offensive in Syria has shown us this again: in the face of the ever-increasing uncertainties on the international scene, faced with a threat which, unfortunately, we must note the steady renewal both internally and in the theatres of external confrontations, the defence policy launched since the beginning of the quinquennium manifests a voluntarism and constancy which are the best guarantee for our country. For the second year in a row, the "Defence" mission's appropriations are fully consistent with the military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025, which we adopted in June 2018. In order to ensure that coherence, programming had to be based on sincere principles. That was the case. We saw in the last spring of the evaluation that the implementation of the 2018 budget had been extremely rigorous and that the problems that had arisen at the end of the management process had been satisfactorily resolved. Thus, it is assured that the new €1.7 billion increase in the 2019 Finance Bill will be fully used to implement the MPA, not to make up for delays that would have occurred in the implementation of the previous budget. I turn to the draft budget for 2020, which extends this virtuous trajectory. With an increase of 1.7 billion euros, the appropriations for the Defence mission, excluding contributions to the special allocation account – CAS – Pensions, amount to 37.5 billion euros, an increase of 4.5%. By including the balance contributions to the "pensions" CAS, the total appropriations are 46 billion euros, or 13.6% of the net expenditure of the general state budget. This Finance Bill marks a significant change in the scope of the programs. Infrastructure funding, which was centralized in the 212 "Defence Policy Support" program, is now divided into several programs. Appropriation for weapons programmes and operational infrastructure will be transferred to 146 "Equipment of Forces" and 178 "Preparation and Use of Forces" respectively. The infrastructure appropriations remaining within the scope of programme 212 will mainly finance networks and buildings of general interest, as well as the improvement of living and working conditions for staff members and their families. This change is the translation of an effort to improve the management of these infrastructures. It also contributes to increasing the readability of budgetary appropriations. Commitment authorizations again show a very strong increase, earning 23.3%, excluding pension expenses. This increase is in line with the full implementation of the MPA in terms of maintenance of equipment and weapons programs. The planned maintenance of the equipment is undergoing a major transformation, with the introduction of multi-year maintenance contracts with an industry responsible for the entire chain – what is called a verticalised contract. The movement began in 2019 with the signing of maintenance contracts for the fleet of Rafale, A400M and Tiger helicopters. It is expected to continue in 2020 and expand to include Army and Navy equipment. In addition, the provision for the financing of OPEX will reach EUR 1.1 billion in 2020, compared to EUR 850 million in 2019. The MPA plans to maintain this level of provision until 2023. The total provision, including the 100 million spent on internal missions – MISSINT – will thus amount to 1.2 billion euros. The process of sequencing this item of expenditure, called for by the Court of Auditors and by Parliament, is therefore coming to an end. In terms of staffing, in the last spring of the evaluation, we found a clear under-execution of the Ministry of Armed Forces' employment plan in 2018, which reinforced the 2017 trend. In fact, the Ministry of Armed Forces continues to face significant difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel. Rare skills – technicians, computer scientists, cyber specialists, intelligence professionals – are particularly vulnerable to competition from the private sector. They are also subject to competition between State services. The stagnation of payroll expenditure in the draft budget for 2020 is a reflection of the inclusion of this under-execution. The Ministry of Armed Forces has taken full advantage of these difficulties. The service link premium, introduced in May 2019 in lieu of five old bonuses, is particularly targeted at the professions in tension. It is expected to increase by EUR 12.5 million in 2020. With regard to civilian personnel, an additional $13 million will be provided to strengthen competency-based and performance-based allowances. The envelope for the recruitment of specialized contractors will increase by 12 million. The other major focus of the recruitment and retention policy is the improvement of the living and working conditions of the military. For example, the improvement of accommodation will benefit from EUR 120 million in 2020, which is expected to increase to EUR 140 million on an annual average until 2025. This effort is very significant, far exceeding the budget of 100 million per year provided for in the MPA. In addition, the family plan is on the rise, with €57 million for 2019 and €80 million for 2020. Budget documentation was enriched in 2020 with a new performance indicator for the renewal rate of the first contract. Given the importance of recruitment and retention issues, it seems to me, Madam Minister, that the Department of Armed Forces should consider the introduction of other objectives and indicators to assess its human resources policy in a changing environment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In any event, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the appropriations for the Defence Mission for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u77	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u78	The mission "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" is singular that the mere maintenance of existing provisions leads to a decline in appropriations every year. The draft budget for next year thus loses 142 million euros compared to 2019, to reach 2.16 billion euros. Usually, the budgets presented to us re-emphasize some of the savings achieved in order to improve existing arrangements. Last year, the Government had met some of the legitimate expectations of the fighting world. The combatant's card was assigned to soldiers who served in Algeria between July 1962 and July 1964. A €400 increase in the recognition allowance for returnees had been adopted. A fund for the descendants of harkis in socio-occupational difficulty had been set up.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u79	All this thanks to Gilles Lurton!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u80	At the time, many demands from the fighting world had been ruled out. For example, the Government had announced its intention to convene a tripartite commission with associations and parliamentarians to consider upgrading the index point of the military disability pension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u81	We're still waiting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u82	However, this committee has not been convened. This draft budget, rather than satisfying certain demands of veterans, only provides for a modest upgrading of 600,000 euros, which will allow to increase the pensions of 461 surviving spouses of large invalids. More surprisingly, savings measures are planned on several actions. The National Office for Veterans and War Victims – ONACVG – is mobilised to the tune of 17.5 million euros. The advisability of this levy is not critical in itself, but it should be noted that the only objective is the control of public expenditure. These appropriations will be used to finance existing actions: the memory policy, for 4 million euros, and the measures for returnees, for 3 million. This year, €125 million will be saved on the "Recognition and Reparation for the Fighter" programme. However, it is not the needs that are lacking. Several of the amendments that we will be defending this evening are aimed at remedying the agonizing budget that is being proposed to us. The upgrading of military disability pensions, their associated benefits and the veteran's retirement are all measures that should have been included in the budget. I would like to make three observations. First, credits for memory policy are being reduced as a matter of grief. The momentum brought by the commemoration of the centenary of the Great War is running out. To return to such low credits, it is necessary to go back to 2012. The witnesses of history were much more numerous then. This year, we will need the dedication of volunteers, associations and families to ensure transmission and remembrance. The means of the ONAC-Victims of war are diminishing. Of course, the institution must adapt to the decline in the number of its nationals, but the attrition of its resources led it to place itself in restructuring in October: forty-two jobs will be abolished in 2020, of which twenty-five in the departmental services. Developments are under discussion concerning this operator, which is the keystone of the mission. I reiterate the need to maintain the territorial network of the NAACVG. The proposed transformations should not be used as a pretext to reduce proximity or degrade the quality of services provided to accompanied persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u83	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u84	Finally, I will refer to programme 158, which is not the subject of any amendment. It finances, to the tune of 94 million euros, various compensations granted to victims of acts of barbarism and persecution committed during the Second World War. Here too, the means are declining due to the demographics of the populations concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u85	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u86	However, it is difficult to understand that the means granted to the compensation commission for the victims of spoliations are declining, while our debt to them is far from being paid. In view of these observations, I have delivered an opinion against the vote on this budget, which does not meet the legitimate expectations of the fighting world. However, the committee has adopted these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u87	I call Mr Guy Teissier, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u88	The budget before us is, in terms of budgetary forecasting, a good budget, let us not be afraid of words. It foresees an increase of EUR 1.7 billion in defence resources, which is in line with the trajectory set out in the military programming law, under which France must devote 2% of its GDP to defence by 2025. This budget is therefore an important step in the upsurge of the armies, particularly in terms of the modernization of equipment. It also responds to the changing international context, which is becoming more dangerous and unstable every day. However, as you know, minister, it is not enough for the credits to be granted: they must be consumed. Let me therefore raise a number of concerns with regard to the implementation of the appropriations adopted for the armed forces. First of all – I start with the best – I welcome the effort to launch financing for external operations and internal missions, for a significant amount of €1.2 billion in 2020. I have long chaired the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces and in this capacity I have obtained the creation of this article. At the time, we had entered EUR 400 million, which was a precautionary reserve rather than an implementing reserve. Again this year, this provision is likely to remain insufficient in relation to the actual cost of operations. The question of taking over the additional costs will therefore arise. Can you confirm, Madam Minister, that the principle of interdepartmental solidarity is maintained in order to finance this additional cost, in order to avoid, as last year, the cancellation of several hundred million euros of defence budget appropriations? Even though you could cancel credits next week, I'm worried about the under-consumption of military credits. In fact, the two issues are linked: the more difficult you are to absorb the appropriations granted, the more you can afford to cancel defence budget appropriations. It is therefore regrettable that the department's internal management difficulties have the effect of slowing down the modernization of the armed forces. I will cite an example. While the LPM places itself "to the height of man", according to the very beautiful formula consecrated, the Ministry of the Armed Forces does not manage to consume the whole of the credits of Title II, however, so important for the armies, because of the difficulties they encounter in recruiting and, above all, in retaining. In fact, you have the consequences because in 2020, spending on this issue differs from the path set out in the MPA. The department is also struggling to implement the planned infrastructure funding, which may leave the implementation of the planned accommodation plan for the next five years dubious. A word, finally, of the effort made to improve the living conditions of the soldiers. This subject, which sometimes seems peripheral to the major equipment programs under way, is in fact essential to the proper functioning of the armies. If many young people embrace the military career, it is because they know that they are supported by the institution and the country. By means of the hardships it imposes, the profession of arms is no other similar: to engage in it can ultimately lead to the alteration of physical integrity or even to death. We must remain very vigilant about the balance between the hardships and the compensations, which are at the heart of the military condition. Its challenge would worsen the difficulties the armies face in loyalty to their ranks. This risk does exist, to hear youth or elders worry about the impact that pension reform could have on the military pension system. Despite the supposedly reassuring statements made by the President of the Republic and the High Commissioner for Pensions, it is up to you, Madam Minister, to make a communication effort to dispel the instability of the future that the soldiers are worried about. I know that the Government has made the improvement of the living conditions of the military one of its priorities, and I welcome this view of the adoption of the family plan, designed to address in a comprehensive manner the constraints of military engagement for families. Nevertheless, it must be clearly measured that part of the family plan falls within the advertising effect. Initiatives are sometimes taken at the regimental level, as the command did not wait for the family plan to implement certain measures, especially in the area of housing and accommodation. To date, the effects have been difficult to discern, Madam Minister. However, the challenge of retention in the armies depends largely on your ability to improve the accommodation and housing conditions of soldiers. If not, how can we demand that the military accept the heavy hardships imposed on them by the arms trade? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let me paraphrase Napoleon Bonaparte: the budget, like the war, is a simple art of execution. Think about it, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u89	Mr Didier Baichère, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u90	The budget programme 144 "Environment and foresight of defence policy" which I have the honour to present to you reflects an essential ambition for the nation: to prepare for the future, to support the indispensable effort of innovation and to constantly irrigate our industrial and technological base of defence with new blood and new technologies to facilitate the work of our soldiers in the theatres of operation. Defence is not only the armed forces but also an ecosystem of innovation and anticipation of the future. Sovereignty also implies that a nation is able to prevent strategic surprise from the technological point of view. In terms of the stakes, the budget of the 144 programme increases by 5% in payment appropriations and by 8% in commitment authorisations, bringing it to 1.5 and 1.7 billion euros respectively. Preparing for the future is a very broad concept. This is why the 144 programme covers areas as different as intelligence, technological studies, the human and cognitive sciences, research institutes, schools and the contribution related to our establishment in Djibouti. For upstream studies, which constitute the major part of the 144 programme, payment appropriations for 2020 amount to EUR 821 million, up 8.3%, while commitment authorisations amount to EUR 1 billion. The trajectory set out in the military programming law, which sets a target of EUR 1 billion in payment appropriations in 2022, will be fully respected. The heavy goods vehicles of the upstream studies naturally remain deterrence, aeronautics and missiles. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the small proportion of upstream studies devoted to the army, as theatres of operations are being digitized and the soldier faces growing cognitive challenges whose operational consequences must be anticipated very upstream. A difficulty reported by professional organisations also deserves our attention: these are the difficulties faced by small and medium-sized enterprises and intermediate-sized establishments in gaining more direct access to upstream studies. Also, the actions for SMEs organised by the Ministry of Armed Forces in the regions must clearly respond to this need for information and awareness of the industrial fabric. The Ministry of Armed Forces has also embarked on a major reorganization of the Directorate-General for Armaments – DGA – particularly in the area of innovation governance. I welcome the creation of the Defence Innovation Agency, whose first eighteen months of existence are very promising. On the other hand, the existing ASTRID, ASTRID Maturation and RAPID devices, which have been preserved and are essential to our ecosystem, attest to the need to maintain investments. We now have a new system, Definvest, which will eventually have 50 million euros to invest in collaboration with BpiFrance. To date, the Ministry of Armed Forces has participated in the capital of six companies whose production is estimated to be strategic for defence. Again, this is a start-up and the number of recipient companies is expected to grow rapidly in the years to come. Finally, I am pleased that you have recently inaugurated the common platform for the DGA and the General Staff, the Minister: it is the sign that the final client of innovations, namely the strengths, is well in the loop at all stages of the innovation process. Similarly, you have made the important decision to set an ethical framework for the future development of artificial intelligence in the armies. I come to the information, whose appropriations increase by 14% in commitment authorities and by 2% in payment appropriations. The Directorate-General for External Security – DGSE – is continuing its momentum in the area of real estate policy and recruitment. The Defence Intelligence and Security Directorate's (DRSD) appropriations show a significant 49% increase in commitment authority to build a new sovereignty base and to develop decision support capabilities as part of its new clearance processing software. Finally, the strategic analysis and studies led by the Directorate-General for International Relations and Strategy show a budgetary increase of 6% in commitment authorizations, in order, in particular, to contribute in the long term to the creation of an academic field of strategic defence studies, which is sometimes lacking in France. Before concluding, I would like to highlight a perhaps less well known but equally essential part of programme 144: military medical research, which is an integral part of our sovereignty and which has 3 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u92	I would like to pay tribute to the teams of the Institute for Biomedical Research of the Armed Forces and the Armed Forces Health Service, which focus on the daily prevention and maintenance of the health of the member in operation. The challenge is to integrate this biomedical research as upstream as possible into the design of weapons systems. From this point of view, the military health service is increasingly associated upstream with weapons programmes, and we can only encourage this trend. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] With regard to these elements, I am pleased, Madam Minister, to deliver a favourable opinion on Program 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u93	Mr Claude de Ganay, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u94	It is my responsibility to report on the evolution of the appropriations for joint support and logistics in this draft budget, which represents more than EUR 10 billion, or almost a third of the defence budget. For this second year of military programming, the budget model has been radically changed, particularly in the area of support. Unfortunately, this does not facilitate comparisons compared to 2019. On the other hand, next year we will have a more detailed monitoring tool for government arbitrations, particularly on the life infrastructure on which the condition of staff depends to a large extent and, consequently, loyalty. The latter is a matter of concern, as evidenced by the worrying rate of non-renewal of contracts. This is a real challenge for our armies, the threat of this loss of attractiveness occurring at a time when they are supposed to rebuild through a substantial financial effort. Prior to my report on my thematic section, allow me, Madam Minister, to welcome the increase in funds allocated to the Armed Forces Health Service, whose task of monitoring the physical and mental health of soldiers and their families is essential, even if this increase will have to take place over time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u95	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u96	This year, I chose to focus my work on the plan to support families and improve the living conditions of the military, known as the family plan. Indeed, I wanted to check whether this plan provided a response to the loss of attractiveness or whether it was a simple communication operation. With all the objectivity that characterizes me, minister, I must confirm that this plan reflects an awareness of the need to adopt a comprehensive approach to social action for the military and their families. I have met with fully mobilised directorates and services to improve the quality of support and to simplify administrative procedures. I also note the upgrading of the appropriations dedicated to the renovation of infrastructure, the creation of crèches and the development of new digital tools. But, with the same objectivity, minister, I must note that there are some shortcomings in this plan. First, the resources allocated to support will not be sufficient to meet the challenges of loyalty. The increase in infrastructure appropriations, for example, is proving to be inconvenient with the needs: it will only help to stabilize the situation, i.e. to catch up with the delay. In 2020, appropriations for conversion fell by more than 5% compared to 2019, thereby reducing the support for the mobility of spouses. Secondly, in a context of limited resources, the family plan is struggling to mobilize public spending efficiently and in line with strategic priorities. This is reflected, for example, in the costs incurred to generalize wifi in all military fora. However, this measure, representing 80 per cent of the budget of the military police station under the family plan, was not included in the list of priority needs drawn up by the staffs. This extension may be challenged by the deployment of 4G or 5G. In any event, it will not prevent, to take a concrete example, the soldier of the naval tank infantry regiment from tapping through the regiment's courtyard to join field toilets that make up for the unsanitaryness of the showers. Thirdly, the family plan and its media support may suggest that it will be sufficient to recruit and retain the military. The High Committee for the Assessment of the Military Condition warned me against the temptation to consider this plan as the alpha and the omega of the improvement of the military condition. The quality of health support and the fair compensation of hardships in the new remuneration policy and the reform of pensions are much more important. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Therefore, minister, this plan, however relevant it may be, appears imperfect. That is why we must consider, from now on, an Act II of the military condition, opening up an in-depth reflection on the role of the public authority and the instruments at its disposal in order to improve the military condition in a lasting way, adapting to the territories and family structures of the military of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u97	Mr Thomas Gassilloud, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u98	For the third year in a row, I have the honour to present my opinion on the Army's budget. This year again, I have closely associated Sereine Mauborgne, Member of Parliament for the Var, whom I thank for her involvement. The 2020 budget is in line with the ambitious trajectory set by the MPA. The increase in appropriations will allow the army to continue to regenerate its operational capital and to prepare for the future, as we have already had the opportunity to detail it in committee. Our opinion is therefore favourable and we thank you, Minister, for your daily commitment to the benefit of the forces. Even yesterday, you were in Estonia, where you witnessed an inter-arms manoeuvre, led by the French army, as part of Operation Lynx. This year, Sereine Mauborgne and I wanted to deepen our reflection on the role of operational reserves. From its very beginning, our Republic has conceived itself as a "nation in arms", fighting for its ideal of freedom and equality. In the early 2000s, the professionalization of the armies and the suspension of mass mobilization transformed the reserves into a voluntary act of commitment to national defence. Then, a rise in reserves was made after the attacks of 2015. The draft finance law for 2020 thus provides EUR 100 million for the army's reserves, more than double the 46 million allocated in 2015. To date, the Army's first-level operational reserve, known as RO1, consists of 24,000 troops, more than half of the 40,000 army reservists. These timeshares perform an average of 40 days of activity each year. RO1 is now integrated into the armies, which can no longer function without it. Every day, 4000 reservists are employed, especially to protect the national territory. He was a reservist, for example, who neutralized the killer with a knife at Saint-Charles station in Marseille and, during the Strasbourg attack, the tactical staff was armed by reservists. To RO1, we must add RO2, composed by former active soldiers, about 30,000 men, who have an obligation of availability for five years. Twenty years after the professionalization of the armies, the evolution of the world as that of our society requires us to go further in the development of reserves. Indeed, our armies are cut in terms of numbers and equipment. While the latter are more technological and efficient, they are also more expensive and therefore less numerous. The future is uncertain and, whether it is to deal with a major conflict, where technology is likely to show its limits, or with a major climate or technology event in our territory, reserves offer a rapid upswing capability. On the other hand, in a context where our armies face difficulties in recruitment and retention, the reserve offers a status that meets the aspirations of a part of the youth, who wish to engage on a time-shared basis. It is a fundamental element of the relationship between the army and the nation, and facilitates the recruitment of active soldiers, as each reservist is an ambassador. Every year, about 400 Army reservists even go so far as to engage full-time – the reserve is then a pre-active airlock. It also contributes to the retention of all military personnel, as any mission carried out is time saved from which active soldiers will benefit to train more or spend a little more time with their families. The reserve is therefore a recruitment and retention tool for all forces. On the other hand, the reserve is more feminized than active and allows armies to have skills developed in the civilian – doctors, linguists, cyber engineers, lawyers. It offers agility to carry out projects in an increasingly complex and ever-changing world. Finally, beyond responding to the operational needs of the armed forces, the reserve contributes to the cohesion and resilience of society, whose fragmentation represents one of the most important threats to national defence. The universal national service – SNU – is a first response, but it should be linked with the development of the reserve: out of necessity, first, in order to have a sufficient number of supervisory profiles with a military culture, even if they will be employed under a national education statute; Secondly, because the reserve represents a relevant outlet for the UNS. I also propose that training to serve in the reserve should count under the UNS. The Prime Minister shares this ambition for the reserve. On 18 October, at the Institut des hautes études de défense nationale, he told us of his expectations: "We could consider ways to facilitate recruitment and reconciliation with family and professional life... and to promote the interests of the missions and responsibilities entrusted to those who exercise them in professional life". [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Indeed, while the reserve budget has increased significantly since 2015, many points remain to be improved with regard to the status of the Reservist, his operational employment and the proper articulation with his civil life. Our report makes concrete proposals on this subject, but it is only a modest contribution to a reflection that must now be deepened and expanded to include all the armed forces and even internal security. The progress report of the LPM in 2021 will be an excellent opportunity to incorporate the necessary provisions, in addition to those adopted in 2018. In this way, we will add to the exceptional resources of the LPM an opportunity to regain power, while contributing more to the nation's resilience.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u99	Mr Jacques Marilossian, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u100	While the pace of engagement of the national navy remains strong and operational contracts are, once again, outdated, we can be pleased that in 2020, for the third consecutive year, the national navy's budget is on the rise, and in line with the military programming law 2019-2025. First of all, I want to highlight a few points of vigilance. France is a European and global power, but it does not have the means to assume its full role overseas, which offers it the bulk of its exclusive economic zone. The Overseas Patrol Programme is expected by the end of the year, but orders depend on the lifting of reserves. We must confirm our political will to renew our overseas capabilities. And, beyond the overseas, our device for the metropolis also gives worrying signs today. A renewal of our public service patrol boats is required as soon as possible. With previous military programming laws, orders were reduced and calendar carry-overs increased. The production tool of our industrialists has therefore adapted. The return to a growth phase requires new, necessarily long and complex adaptations. As a result, industry cannot respond to urgent demands. Thus, the policy of ammunition orders should be examined in detail. In the absence of sufficient orders, France is struggling to meet its ammunition stockpile targets. Meditate this comparison: the French ordered 160 Meteor missiles, when the British commanded 600 units, in a calendar more spread over time. Of course, we can welcome several positive aspects. I am thinking of symbolic commands, such as the seven Albatross maritime surveillance and intervention aircraft, as well as the delivery of a Suffren-class submarine, two Cayman Navy helicopters and a batch of Aster missiles for multi-mission frigates. In addition, the Government has taken the initiative to entrust the Marine Infrastructure sub-action this year to the Navy, rather than to the General Secretariat for Administration. In this way, the navy becomes a donor of orders for the infrastructure that directly affects it. Another great satisfaction is with the maintenance of operational conditions: the investment remains very sustained, and the service's appropriations correspond to the trajectory defined by military programming and the needs of the navy. Finally, the family plan for military and civilian personnel is effectively deployed in the navy. I would like to refer to the management of human resources in the navy. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, there is no marine without sailors! However, the attractiveness of marine life is decreasing. The navy is now understaffed, not because of a lack of funds, but because of a lack of volunteers to enlist or remain in the military. Obstacle to loyalty, the Navy's loss of attractiveness is not only pecuniary: it is very much due to the mismatch between what makes marine life and the aspirations of the majority of young French and French. The brakes are due more to a lack of interest in these occupations, which are demanding in terms of availability, mobility and unpredictability of the workload, and placing many constraints on family life. In response to the challenges of recruitment and retention, a number of measures have been taken: service linkage bonus, fellowships linked to a commitment to service, diversification of the contractual offer, relaxation of certain recruitment criteria, strengthening of training and communication, and improvement of support. The most emblematic measure is the extension of the double crew system to multi-mission frigates. This device significantly increases the presence at sea of our ships – 190 days instead of 110 – and greatly improves the family life of the crews, thanks to four-month rotations. In conclusion, the Navy adapts and reorganizes itself to meet the multiple expectations of its young recruits, as well as the demands of the missions entrusted to it by politics. One of the major adjustments is the feminization of the workforce. On this point, the navy is on track, as evidenced by the presence of a feminized crew in a nuclear submarine launcher. The Navy's efforts to recruit, train and retain sailors deserve support. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Victor Hugo wrote: "The sea is an area of rigour and freedom". It is by continuing to rigorously implement the law of military programming that France will provide itself with the means to defend its freedom on all the seas of the globe. I therefore express a favourable opinion on the national navy budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u101	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u102	In 2019, the operational activity of the Air Force remained intense, both in the national territory and in the outdoor theatres. The year was also marked by continued capacity building, as well as structuring announcements. One example is the signing of a cooperation agreement on the future air combat system – SCAF – with Germany and Spain at the Bourget fair, and the creation of the Space Command, which prefigures the birth of an air and space army. Among the good news, let us add this draft budget, which I must admit is, for the air force, in conformity with the provisions of the last law on military programming. However, the renewal of ambitions and the acquisition of new capabilities must not mask the persistence of lasting fragility. I will mention three main ones. First, the availability of air fleets remains largely inadequate, affecting both the organic regeneration of aircraft and the ability of the air force to carry out its operational missions. Moreover, I note that the availability forecasts for 2019 have been revised downwards for almost the entire fleet. "It has to fly! You said, Madam Minister, at the launch of the Aviation Maintenance Directorate. I can hear it takes time, but it's been almost two years! Secondly, the retention of personnel is increasingly difficult, in a context of high civilian attractiveness, for both aircrew and mechanics. Various levers have been used, such as bonuses and agreements with industrialists, but will that be enough, even though we need to make an important effort to recruit and train tomorrow's airmen? Thirdly, the medium-term financial perspective is worrying. Less than two years from the updating of the LPM, that is to say, the coverage of needs for the last three years of the programming period intrigues! Moreover, even if the defence effort reaches 2% of GDP, we already know that it will not reach the 50 billion announced, due to the expected decline in GDP. Don't worry, Minister! Don't they say, "In doubt, don't hold back"? Anyway, if there's any forbearance, you know she'll be kind. So you can count on my vigilance for the years to come. I now turn to the theme that I have chosen to highlight this year: the air force helicopters. On this occasion, allow me to pay tribute to one of the pioneers in the military use of helicopters, Lieutenant-Colonel Alexis Santini, from the village of Ota, located in South Corsica, in my constituency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u103	Unmissable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u104	Today we celebrate the one-hundred-and-fifth anniversary of his birth. After conducting the first helicopter medical evacuation in Indochina in the history of the Air Force, he contributed with a few, including his wife, the doctor, general and pilot Valérie André, to evacuate and save hundreds of civilians and soldiers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u105	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u106	Almost forgotten by the LPM, the helicopter component of the army seems to be back in line with your priorities, Madam Minister, with, on the one hand, the announcement of the acceleration of the HIL program – a light joint helicopter – and, on the other hand, the command of a Caracal helicopter, intended to replace one of the two aircraft destroyed in operation. Even though I regret that we had to wait until 2022 to see him join forces, these decisions are in the right direction. However, the helicopter component of the air force remains fragile. In view of the updating of the MPA, four questions seem to me to need our attention. First, the renewal of the Puma helicopter fleet seems vital to me, since the next generation manoeuvre helicopter is not expected until 2035. We know that two H225 helicopter rental options are on the table, either for twenty aircraft, replacing number for number of Puma, or for twelve aircraft, pending the transfer of the eight Light Aviation Caracals from the Army, expected by 2025. It is not for me to vote in favour of this or that scenario. But whatever option is chosen, you have to go fast, because there are only about 30 devices left in the market of the occasion. The hearings I have conducted have shown that a decision must be taken by the end of the year, if we are to complete this project. What about the minister? The second question is the determination of the Gepard's specifications specific to the air force. I hear that the addition of a refuelling pole in flight would not be certain. Imagine my astonishment! In-flight refuelling is a power and force multiplier, allowing for ever more freedom from the constraints arising from the elongation of the theatres of operation. In the Sahelo-Saharan band, precisely, it allows to limit FARP – forward area refuel/rearm points – these famous weapons and fuel refuelling points where the helicopter sets up and exposes itself. In the long run, the possibility of conducting operations involving Guépard and Caracal would be a decisive advantage for both support and combat rescue operations. I know that arbitration is expected within a year. Rest assured, once again, Madam Minister – especially after the dry contact tests between an A400M and an H160 conducted in September under the leadership of the DGA! Thirdly, the modernization of the ten existing Caracals is necessary, by means of the development of a standard 2 to correct obsolescences and to avoid putting the Caracals on the touch during operations conducted with our allies. Without a tactical data link, in particular, they are almost deaf and blind. Fourthly, it is time to seriously address the issue of heavy-lift helicopters. For many months in the Sahel, we have been measuring the relevance of this capability on a daily basis, thanks to the engagement of three British Chinook CH-47 helicopters. As I have already had the opportunity to say, it seems to me that we should support the launch of a Franco-German heavy-lift helicopter unit, based on the model of the tactical transport squadron composed of C130J aircraft, under construction on the air base at Évreux. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That, Mr President, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, is what it seemed to me to be important to share with you at the end of my work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u107	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u108	This year, the draftsman of the opinion on the appropriations for force equipment and deterrence is, dare we say, a happy rapporteur! Indeed, the proposed budget for 2020 for the arms appropriations included in programme 146 is undoubtedly a good budget, in many respects. First of all, it is an increasing budget, and even a sharp increase: the amounts allocated increase by 15.6% in payment appropriations and by 75% in commitment authorisations, reaching EUR 12.6 billion and EUR 25 billion respectively. This gives substance to the rearmament effort continued since 2015, reaffirmed by the strategic review and planned by the LPM! The second reason for satisfaction is that these appropriations are in line with the programming. Some would object that this is the least, but recent history shows that this has not always been the case. We can welcome this, on all banks, especially since the programme is ambitious: in 2020, the Defence Mission benefits from an additional €1.7 billion, of which €1.3 billion is for force equipment. This ambitious budget is also credible, and this is a third reason to be satisfied. Indeed, between the vote on arms credits and their proper execution, the path has often been tortuous. Two pitfalls have in the past undermined the proper implementation of the appropriations which we voted for: on the one hand, carry-overs, and on the other hand, the cancellations of appropriations decided to cover expenditure on external operations. So far, financial provisions to cover the additional costs of OPEX and internal missions have been set at one third, or at best half of the "billion and a few" they have been costing for some 15 years. As a result: directly or not, sooner or later in the year, we had to systematically punctuate the arms credits to cover these additional costs. For 2020, the financial provisions are set at EUR 1.1 billion, i.e. little or no funding. Here is a major mortgage on the execution of arms credits. As for the carry-over of expenses, the appropriations entered for 2020 allow it to be reduced. This makes the investment effort all the more credible as we vote, which is welcome. I will not start here in the list of orders and deliveries to which the 2020 budget provides – my report for an opinion draws up an exhaustive list of them. Of course, we can always ask more, ask everything, right now, but who would believe it? The programming that this budget implements is reasonable, because it is credible. This is an important point because, in the field of armaments, things are not done by slamming their fingers: industrial cycles are long, programmes are long-lasting. Moreover, there is nothing worse than unfulfilled promises. This is worth guiding our first work on updating the MPA. It is for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that your draftsman is a happy rapporteur. Is it a happiness without any shadow? Maybe not. Without suggesting here that hell is the others, I note that the clouds are less on the side of national programmes than on the side of cooperative programmes. I have thus endeavoured to study the European balance of arms cooperation at the time of Brexit. Will it take place? If so, in what form? It would be imprudent to take the bets, but it would be just as imprudent not to prepare for it. Considering, on the one hand, that the instruments of European defence would lose a great deal to the distance of the British – who, moreover, do not wish to do so – and, on the other hand, that France in particular has an interest in maintaining diversified partnerships with its European neighbours and friends, it seems to me that a treaty of association in the format "27+1" is necessary, and that France must, without delay, seize the opportunity of the ten years of the Lancaster House agreements to sign a new bilateral cooperation treaty, fed by new projects in operational and capacitary matters, for example in the field of digital and space technologies. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] That is the result of my work on the appropriations for programme 146, on which the Defence Committee has delivered a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u109	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u110	Over time, the budget for the "Veterans, Memory and Connections with the Nation" mission is decreasing, due to the natural disappearance of glorious elders. Nevertheless, we will vote for it, because the natural fall in the number of beneficiaries, which results in a mechanical reduction of the Mission's budget to EUR 2.16 billion, does not prevent the financing of new measures or the maintenance of the financing of the important measures that we had taken in the previous two years. In 2018, we chose to put an end to the unjust distinction between the soldier's rate and the rank rate for pensions. We had also increased the recognition allowance and the lifetime allowance, respectively for returnees and their surviving spouses. In 2019, we proposed to put an end to a recurring and long-standing demand from veterans' associations: the allocation of the fighter card to those who performed services in Algeria from 3 July 1962 to 1 July 1964 to the 50,000 beneficiaries who were waiting for it. Thirty-five thousand have been granted this year and 20,000 will be granted in the coming months. We have also proposed in your vote, and you have accepted it, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in funding for medical expertise and the implementation of the plan for the Harkis and their families. This year, we propose to increase the military disability pensions allocated to the spouses of the great war invalids, who have dedicated their lives to caring for their valiant spouses, heavily injured in combat. This measure, if you accept it, will enable widows to accompany them, and to recognize their commitment to their husbands as a commitment to France. We have also brought the commemorations back to their solemn and regal level. With his memorial roaming, with the commemorations of the Normandy landing and the disembarkation of Provence, the Head of State has returned to the proximity of the memory smugglers – of all the memories, first among which that of the Black Army, so long forgotten and humbly recalled here by your humble servant. By inviting Alain Mabanckou to deliver in his place the inaugural speech of the monument dedicated to the Black Army, on November 6, in Arras, in the same way with David Diop, on August 15, at the necropolis of Boulouris, the Head of State not only recalled how the so-called Senegalese tirailers were decisive supporters in our struggles, he also recalled the place they must occupy in a society that forgets his past, and how the black ink of these African authors, Francophones and Francophiles, enlightens our history, illuminates our present. Let me quote from Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's few words: "War is not the acceptance of risk. It's not the acceptance of the fight. It is at certain times, for the combatant, the acceptance... of death. This acceptance of death does not have a color; It has many, the colours of the homeland, freedoms, democracy, republican rules that guarantee each of the same rights. These are the colours of France. These colours will be raised on November 11, and honour will be given to the soldiers who died for France in external operations, during the inauguration of the memorial dedicated to them, so that our compatriots can finally gather in front of a marble wall on which will be engraved the names of young men, of children fallen for the country, and so that everyone remembers that there is a heavy price to pay, the heaviest that is, for the living of freedom, live the Republic, and live France. (Applause from several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u111	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u112	The new Assembly Rules only give me five minutes to discuss, with you, the "Defence" mission and the "Veterans, Memory and Connections with the Nation" mission. I regret that. It is an umpteenth manifestation of contempt not only for Parliament but also for veterans, as is the absence of a State Secretariat dedicated to them. The budget for veterans presents several points of uncertainty and raises questions which I will quote quickly: the upgrading of the index point for military disability pensions is not on the agenda; The drastic decline in funds allocated to the National Office of War Veterans and Victims and to the National Institution of Invalids is worrying – it erases the increase claimed by the Government last year –; The future of Val-de-Grâce is not clear, and there is much to be feared that the bounty that such buildings represent for real estate developers will make forget the general interest, in particular that of defence. Finally, the liberalisation of rail transport threatens the allocation of a reduction in train tickets to persons with a disability rate of at least 25%. Generally speaking, this budget gives a lot to things, and little to men. As a result of government communication, which leads to a budget for men, the choices made are rarely to the advantage of men. All budget lines that directly concern men are down, such as – emblematic example – the €8 million lost to social action in the 212 programme. To claim that the defence budget is on the rise, as the minister of armies does, you have to play with the fakes. The change in the scope of the various programmes gives a flattering picture of the evolution of the appropriations. Those dedicated to the preparation and equipment of forces seem to be growing, but they will now finance part of the exploitation of defence real estate. A pass-by trick suggests that the funds dedicated to preparing the ground forces are increasing by 20 million euros, but the wage bill is falling by 150 million. This contradiction will have to be explained. Finally, the cancellations of last year's appropriations – and hence the carry-over of expenses –, the increase in the extra costs of external operations, or the increase in the budget devoted to the renewal of deterrence, absorb the so-called increase in the budget. There is no room for manoeuvre in the coming years. The Government gives the change, but ultimately it is the industrialists who rub their hands. As the choices – or rather the non-choices – of the strategic review had already been perceived, no serious thought sheds light on this budget. The threat catalogue responds to the naive belief that technology will protect our soldiers, our fellow citizens and our homeland. It would be enough to do as before in stronger, faster and more aggressive! A budget is normally the encrypted translation of a policy, a vision. In fact, it is empty of politics. It has only one goal: to approach the 2% of GDP spent on defence, as required by NATO. It is very difficult for us to find in this budget the ways in which we can victoriously break out of the conflicts in which we are engaged or which threaten us. In the Sahel, how could what failed yesterday not fail tomorrow? However, no inflection is on the agenda. As a result of the Turkish aggression against our Kurdish allies in Syria, our dependence on NATO has become quite clear, even to the most obtuse minds. Yet nothing in this budget serves national independence. The prospect of a European smoker defence is enough to put an end to any discussion. The Government wants to be modern. Innovation is in every mouth, but the progress is very meagre. In particular, the functioning of the Defence Innovation Agency and its relationship with the DGA as well as with defence operators and the various ministerial departments are still very nebulous. The executive has claimed to update the doctrines on cyber defence and space defence, but all this is, once again, impossible to be blurred. What will happen, for example, to the Space Command, which must replace the one that already exists? What are his prerogatives? Why place him under the authority of the Air Staff, while everyone agrees that space operations are of interest to all weapons? The resources devoted to it are unclear. Once again, we are asked to vote with our eyes closed. Cyberdefense, space defence and deterrence: with these slogans, the Government is determined to embark the country in an arms race that it considers inevitable, rather than to bring about a French singularity that would cleverly articulate the state-of-the-art technical mastery, the hardiness and the defence of an international order based on law. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In reality, the ideology of the "start-up nation" is unable to produce the necessary intellectual synthesis, because it neglects the resources and needs of our people. The Members of the House of Representatives of the Republic of France see a perfect example of this disdain in the plan for a universal national service, of which it is clear from now on that the defence will have to take part in its charge, despite the promises of the President of the Republic. As experienced this summer, the universal national service is useless to the defence and young people. It will be expensive, but it is not included in the budget. This is still one of those famous false-semblances that the Government everywhere sows, and that do not allow to vote the budget as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u113	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u114	The war, whose chameleon nature has been highlighted by Clausewitz, is undergoing new changes. It is resettling in the foreground of history, and, above all, changing nature. It becomes a permanent state, mixing conflict and peace. It is hybrid, both internal and external, civil and military, regular and irregular, and it is not the eradication of some of its most emblematic figures, as in Syria, that tends to make it disappear. The savings measures taken to close the previous military programming law have brought it to the limits of the break-up – especially since this diet was carried out without an overall reassessment of the defence strategy agreed in 2008. The LPM in which we are committed through this second budget aims to correct many of the capacity vulnerabilities inherited from the previous period. It also aims to comply with the operational contract resulting from the strategic review, a real shared geopolitical state of affairs, but unattainable contract without an increase in the defence budget. In short, this 2020 budget aims to ensure that, at every moment, France lives up to its supreme mission of protecting the French. It is generally said that the ink of a military programming law has not ended to dry that the following finance law is already significantly different from its ambitions. On the contrary, we can be proud of this defence budget for 2020, as it is at the rendezvous of the commitments that have been made. It is a budget that we can be proud of because it is growing for the third year in a row, with more than 1.7 billion euros of new resources at constant scope, and is ever closer to the 2% of GDP target for defence. It is a budget whose sincerity is growing even further, since it foresees expenditure entirely financed by budgetary appropriations, and presents €1.1 billion in provisions for external operations and internal missions in 2020 – compared to €450 million in 2017. The financing of operations is now better secured. It is also a budget of the armies that is part of the territories, for their benefit. The State itself must rethink its action on the ground, taking another approach to its territorial presence. The Ministry of Armed Forces is no exception and relocates, as close as possible to the French: thus, the command of cyber defence is installed in Rennes, the direction of human resources in Tours, and the Command of Space in Toulouse. Our budget benefits all territories, without exception. In 2018, it represented 2.5 billion euros for Brittany, 4 billion euros for New Aquitaine, or nearly 2 billion euros for the Great East. We find these great masses in the 2020 budget. This territorial reading of the budget can also be done in the light of the major supplies of equipment in 2020: twenty-four Griffon vehicles will arrive in Fréjus and two renovated Mirage 2000D will arrive in Nancy, while Orleans will host two A400M and Uzein, in the South West, seven Cayman Terre helicopters. Yes, our defence industry contributes to the vitality of our territories and our employment pools! While the "Veterans, Memory and Nation Relations" budget is actually declining, all mechanisms demonstrating recognition of the nation and a concern for reparation are maintained. It is not aberrant that a budget in which intervention expenditure accounts for 94% of the Mission's appropriations – that is, 94% of the Mission's appropriations correspond to economic aid and financial transfers for the benefit of veterans or their beneficiaries – adapts to the decrease in the number of its beneficiaries. The majority have done a lot for veterans. In 2017, there was an increase of 100 euros in the recognition allowance for harkis and a 2 points increase in the veteran's retirement from 1 September. And now there is the map of fighter 62/64, whose members of the opposition still said, a few days ago: "It is regrettable that for so long governments have always followed each other with the same rengain, always the same rivet, and that this measure is always returned to the Greek calends. We have taken this step, and 35,000 cards will be published at the end of 2019. Let us finally mention the monument to the dead in external operations, which, in the opinion of all the groups present here, should have been built for many years. It will be inaugurated by the Government in a few days. In conclusion, France's economic recovery and the restoration of internal and external security are inseparable. There is no development without security, nor more security without growth, which alone can ensure the financial effort required for our defence. Also, it is with pride that the La République en Marche group will vote for the budgets of these various missions. (Applause from several banks of the LaREM Group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u115	Mr Gouttefarde, I would like to point out that Uzein is not just a point in the South-West, but is located in Béarn! (Sighs.) Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u116	The Republicans Group notes with satisfaction that the 2020 defence budget is following the path set out in the military programming law 2019-2025: for example, payment appropriations are up 4.5%, to €37.5 billion, representing 1.86 % of GDP. However, the work carried out in committee did not answer some of our questions. With regard to the end of 2019, we did not obtain any assurance about the release of the appropriations put in reserve that year, particularly for the 146 and 178 programmes, which makes us fear a significant carry-over in 2020. Similarly, there is no guarantee that the additional cost of 2019 external operations will be co-financed by other ministries. The 2020 budget itself is not without criticism. The increase in payment appropriations will not, in reality, be 4.5%, as announced, but 3%, given inflation. At EUR 37.5 billion, this budget will be lower than that of Britain and even that of Germany, which does not have a nuclear component, whereas our army is obviously much more committed. The sharp increase in the provision for external operations and internal security missions, which amounts to EUR 1.1 billion, leaves us dubious: the budget increases in sincerity, but the possibility of using other ministries to finance the additional cost decreases accordingly. Finally, there is still a lack of clarity as to whether or not the defence budget or the veterans budget will contribute to the universal national service. Beyond the 2020 budget, it seems to us that the deterioration of the international situation, much faster than the strategic review envisaged, must lead our country to amplify its defence effort without waiting for the deadlines set by the military programming law 2019-2025. This proposal is based on five worrying findings: the increasing number of crises and their increasing intensity, while more and more countries are heavily equipping themselves with sophisticated weapons; the persistence of the terrorist threat; the attitude of the United States, which can sometimes lead us to doubt the Atlantic alliance; the weakening of international treaties and multilateralism; Finally, a European defence policy at a standstill. This last observation, Madam Minister, is particularly true in industrial matters: the arbitrations concerning the two major Franco-German weapons programmes – the air combat system of the future and the tank of the future – have still not been returned. Thus, the risk increases that France will be involved in a high-intensity conflict before the military programming law has borne fruit. During the review of the LPM, we had already denounced the fact that most of the effort would be made from 2023, with deliveries staggered until 2030: too little, too late, to face a major conflict! For these reasons, the Republicans will not be able to vote in favour of the 2020 defence budget. (Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM Group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u118	I now turn to the veterans' budget. He continued to assign the combatant's map to those called deployed in Algeria after 2 July 1962 and until 1964. It is regrettable that this measure of justice was not decided earlier: we proposed it in April 2018, but the majority rejected it at the time. (Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM Group.) In addition, the natural decrease in the number of veterans will increase the pension for surviving spouses of large disabled persons. But, in our view, this budgetary leeway should also be used to increase the veteran's retirement by 2 points, as of 1 July 2020, including regular revalorisation – as under the mandates of Jacques Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy – seems to us possible and desirable. We have tabled an amendment to that effect and our vote on the veterans' budget will depend on the fate of the Government and its majority. (Applause from the LR group benches)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u119	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u120	I am pleased to express the views of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement on the conclusions of the Committee on Defence. This point of view can be summed up by a word: unity; a unity all the more fundamental in these days when, if our rivals or enemies attack us less frontally, some aim at the collapse of our national cohesion. On the national territory, we must face the assaults against our law enforcement forces, against those who embody the individual commitment to the protection of all, against places of worship, by forces that believe thus to harm our unity, our common destiny. In the international competition, we witness the troubled games of the powers: information wars, hostile financial investments, questioning of the international legal order, until the recurrence of high-intensity conflicts. Today, more than ever, war is a place of multi-domain confrontation and calls for a unique response: the rise of our defence. In the budgetary field, however, unity implies coherence and sincerity. Consistency, as Josy Poueyto said for us in committee, lies in the filiation of this budget with the law of military programming. It is in all respects the declination of its objectives, in terms of investment, deliveries, strategic anticipation, both on land, on sea and in the air as well as in outer space, not to mention digital spaces. Let us remember this victory: 1.7 billion euros in addition, at constant scope this year again, despite the budgetary pressure! Genuineness is first and foremost a consistent implementation of the law of military programming, but also the constant sequencing of the budget of external military operations. It is also the assumption that certain elements require longer consultation, or coordination with our partners: for example, the ambition of the Franco-German cooperation treaty on tactical transport capabilities should be welcomed here; We will be studying this topic very soon. Finally, budgetary unity is the courage to assume a coherent, vision-driven, multi-annual budget that is needed in a complex environment. But unity is also that of the nation with its history, a story that goes through the link with the fighters who made it. As Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer pointed out, this link is reflected today, in addition to the maintenance of all the existing arrangements, in the financing of the fighter card 62/64 or in the upgrading of the pension of surviving spouses of great invalids. These advances are the result of unprecedented consultation with associations, which announces the meeting of tripartite committees on many recurring topics. This is also the story of transmission. The success of the centenary mission of the First World War, although there are no veterans left, is proof of this. Thus, despite the planned but progressive end of the centennial sequence, we can be pleased that this budget continues to make a significant effort towards the commemorations of next year and at the service of the link between the army and youth. In this respect, the unity is also that of the National Defence and Armed Forces Committee, which, last Wednesday, unanimously adopted this budget for reconstruction and memory. But unity, which should not be confused with uniformity, also consists in respecting the role of everyone in a common project. By adopting this budget, Parliament will commit itself to monitoring its implementation. Count on MODEM to take all its part in the common effort. We will be particularly vigilant with regard to the condition of staff, the renewal of the operational reserve, the coherence between innovation and budgetary rationality. More importantly, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, our group, like you, consistent, constant and sincere, will ensure that your decisions will continue to take into account tomorrow's strategic continuum between economy, information, culture, security and defence, which will prevail in all future conflicts. We will take special care of this. In the meantime, and in order to put an end to the suspense, we will vote enthusiastically in favour of defence budgets and veterans. (Applause from the MODEM and LaREM groups)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u121	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u122	I want to make a few comments about the "Defence" and "Veterans, Memory and Connections with the Nation" missions. With regard to the Defence Mission, I want to be objective and welcome an increase of €1.6 billion, bringing this budget to more than 37 billion non-pensions for 2020, as indicated in the budget document. Even if one could imagine it more important, our country's defence effort is real: it reaches 1.86% of GDP, which brings us closer to the 2% target set by the military programming law in 2025. I also want to highlight positive developments: innovation efforts, with an increase in funding for studies; and the delivery of equipment promised for years to our soldiers, including 128 Griffon armoured aircraft, which implement the Scorpion programme, and highly anticipated NH90 helicopters, because the strategic protection function is suffering from the tensions in the aircraft fleet. The same is true for the A400M Atlas and the renovated C-130 order, which will relieve air transport. The positive developments in budgets for programmed maintenance of equipment and maintenance in operational condition – MCO – are also significant. We must ensure that deployed personnel have the necessary equipment to carry out their missions, even though they are heavily employed in combat zones that put them to the test. In the coming months, however, particular attention will have to be paid to the reform of the aviation MCO. The creation of 300 jobs to strengthen intelligence and cyber services also deserves to be welcomed. Given the magnitude of the threat in the digital field, our country must be able to respond to the increasingly frequent attacks by some States or entities close to them. It is likely that there will be a need to revisit the findings of the Strategic Defence Review, as this threat, far from shrinking, is now increasing. However, Madam Minister, I would like to highlight some areas of concern. The question of loyalty remains central. We acknowledge your efforts on this point, since 40 million euros are planned for the retention and attractiveness of the army's trades. A budget of 12.5 million will provide a service link premium ranging from 5000 to 25,000 euros for military personnel operating in private-denominated specialties. However, this problem concerns all military personnel, particularly non-commissioned members: if we want to attract more and more young people into our armies, then it is time to seriously consider extending these bonuses or, in a more ambitious way, reassessing the point of index. Real estate is another important issue. The EUR 120 million effort in support of housing policy will allow the creation and adaptation of housing, but there is a reduction in the budget for housing aid, particularly for families in areas of high rental tension such as the Paris region. The Socialist and Related Group will propose an amendment to strengthen this real estate policy, which affects the daily lives of the military. On the other hand, some equipment is still lacking and starts operating contracts. These include MRTT refuelling aircraft or new overseas patrollers, whose first deliveries are only planned after 2022, as indicated in the Budget Blue. Some points will also need to be monitored in the years to come. Feedback from operations in the Sahel and the Levant should guide budgetary choices. However, Operation Chambal has highlighted already known shortcomings, such as our dependence on in-flight refuelling or the lack of drones. It also revealed deficiencies in stockpiles of ammunition, their inappropriate power in certain combat zones, or anti-drones weapons. Finally, I would like to express our concern about some of the points of the "Veterans, Memory and Nation Connections" mission. First of all, the "Memory Policy" action of programme 167, "Links between the nation and its army", decreases by 30%. The coming years will certainly not be marked by as many celebrations as those of the centenary of the First World War, but this budget is being used to bring about a memory. In addition, this decline must be partially offset by the National Office for War Veterans and Victims, but we doubt that the means of the Office are sufficient. We also reiterated our request that the age limit for holders of a combatant's card or disability or war-victim's pension be reduced to an additional half-tax rate of 70 years, and that it be removed for widows. At present, in order for them to benefit from this half share, their spouse must have died after his seventy-fourth birthday and they themselves must be over 74 years of age. We believe that excluding widows whose husband died before his 74th birthday is an injustice that should be redressed. In short, my overall impression of the "Defence" mission is very positive, but I have questions about the "Veterans" mission. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will be able to respond to our amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u123	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u124	Today, for the second year, we are reviewing the implementation of the military programming law 2019-2025. On behalf of my group, I would like to welcome an increase in the budget for the third year in a row. With an increase in the defence mission's appropriations of 1.7 billion euros compared to 2019 and a budget of 37.5 billion euros in 2020, this budget is a good answer. However, given the challenges and threats we face, we must accelerate the movement. The delivery in 2020 of many major equipment and the significant orders that have been placed bear witness to the rise in power of our armies. On the other hand, our group can only welcome the efforts made to energize and the fulfilment of the commitments made under the military programming law concerning the financing of external operations and internal missions. Thanks to a reserve of EUR 1.1 billion, compared to EUR 850 million in 2019 and EUR 450 million under the previous quinquennium, the financing of France's commitments will be secured and facilitated. While strengthening our capacity is essential, preparing for the future is just as important. At a time when many military powers are tending to catch up or even surpass us, our armies must stay ahead to make a difference, if any, in the theatres of operations. In an increasingly complex sector, our survival depends on innovation. The Government has understood this, since it has allocated €821 million for upstream studies. Finally, our group welcomes the creation of 300 net jobs, which will enable our armies to carry out their missions and their objectives in areas as strategic and priority as intelligence and cyber defence. The appropriations for the "Veterans Fighters" mission, of 2.16 billion euros, are down 142 million compared to 2019. If this decline reflects the natural decrease in the number of beneficiaries of the military disability pension, the IMP, and the veteran's retirement, we believe that a strong signal could have been sent to our veterans and associations by extending the 2019 budget in 2020. The finance bill for 2019 was marked by the extension of the combatant's map to former combatants present in Algeria between July 1962 and July 1964, as well as the commitment of actions in favour of the harkis, which we welcome. The Finance Bill for 2020, by continuing these measures, will enable the MIP perceived by surviving spouses of large war invalids to be upgraded. Tomorrow, these women, who have dedicated their lives to treating their heavily wounded spouses and who are now in financial situations that are sometimes precarious, will receive the equivalent of a nursing pension. While welcoming this justice measure, my group regrets that widows of veterans who died before the age of 74 still do not receive half a tax share. The subject is recurring. It also regrets that the index remains set at 52. I remember the period when we gradually climbed from 37 to 52, without the value of the point of this index increasing. We could have made a little effort in that regard. Finally, it is a pity that the maintenance of the National Office for Veterans and War Victims in all departments is not certain. In Lozère, three people are now assigned to the departmental office; The restructuring of State services and the reduction of the overall budget allocated to the Office should not lead to a reduction in the number of staff in departmental offices, as was possible in French Polynesia. While the missions have so far been carried out by three full-time officers, the Polynesian organization will now have to carry out the same tasks with only two officers, including the director – which seems impossible, especially because of the enthusiasm of Polynesian youth for our armies. It will also be necessary to ensure that this reduction does not reduce the amount of social aid granted to widows, which is now administered by the departmental offices. Despite these few negative points, the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote for the Defence and Veterans Affairs missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u125	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u126	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u127	Once it is not customary, I will begin by expressing real satisfaction: the defence budget for 2020 faithfully reflects the guidelines that we have voted in the military programming law, which is all the more notable given that the recommendations of previous programming laws have not always been respected. As we know, the multi-faceted threat panorama is now marked by a significant increase in crises and the proliferation of hotbeds of tension. The instability of the context forces us to upgrade our defence efforts and to strengthen our strategic autonomy, which requires a significant increase in the resources allocated. We have thus chosen, by voting the programming law, to increase defence appropriations annually by 1.7 billion euros and then by 3 billion between 2023 and 2025. Let us come to the major strategic choices that this mission is making. A first effort is devoted to the equipment of forces, following numerous underinvestment exercises that had gradually revealed capacity gaps. An increase of €1.3 billion will result in the delivery of a number of particularly expected equipment in 2020. This is the case of the next-generation nuclear attack submarine, the Suffren, the first of the eponymous class. I could also mention the deployment of the Scorpion program, the delivery of Griffon or an MRTT supply aircraft – a multi-role in-flight refuelling and transportation aircraft – additional, particularly welcome given the weaknesses of this fleet. I also echo the concern of our fellow Special Rapporteur to ensure that Parliament is properly informed about the maintenance of operational conditions. The published indicators can be misleading, especially in the case of renovation programmes or when old and new equipment are mixed. However, these indicators are of paramount importance, in particular to assess changes in the overall procedures for the conduct of programmes. I would also like to ask you, as every year, about outsourcing in OPEX and charters, following the Court of Auditors' report, but also a number of parliamentary reports, such as that of our colleague François Cornut-Gentille. The conclusion of multi-annual maintenance contracts, an innovation of this financial year, will also have to be closely monitored, taking into account the amounts committed. On the other hand, I, like you, attach great importance to the living conditions of the military and their families. I would like to welcome their improvement through the measures taken for their accommodation and within the framework of the family plan. The year 2019 was also marked by the creation of a large space command that will gradually rise in power over the duration of the programming, with a team of 220 people. However, our group doubts that the resources allocated to this programme are sufficient. Indeed, while the United States invests $8 billion annually, the military programming law provides for a budget of €3.6 billion, but for the duration of the programming, which clearly seems insufficient. I also welcome the key role of the Institute of Advanced National Defence Studies, one of which is to strengthen the link between the nation and its defence. This community, led by 43 associations throughout the country, including overseas, is committed to promoting the values of citizenship. We therefore regret that the appropriations allocated to it continue to decline, from €8.8 million in 2012 to €7.6 million in 2019. Let's finally go to the fighter's retreat. No revalorisation has been granted for more than two years. In 2017, €741 million was spent on this recognition measure. The 2020 budget only provides €660 million for the fighter's retirement, which represents a decrease of €81 million over three years. While the budgetary margins available each year are expected to meet the legitimate demands of the associations, increasing the fighter's retirement index by two points is now legitimate, if not necessary. This will be the subject of one of our amendments. These remarks, the Liberties and Territories Group, in the name of the interests of our armies and the difficult tasks that we are asking them to carry out for our security, will vote on this budget while remaining vigilant on a number of points, of which I have just mentioned the most salient points.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u128	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u129	With regard to the budget for veterans, I will not repeat the reasons given by the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, my colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne, who led the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left not to vote on this budget. I will simply develop three points, without trying to question the current majority, whose action is in keeping with the successive majorities that have been taking place for decades. First of all, I will address the subject of the sovereignty and independence of our army, based on a few examples: the radio channel of French Rafale planes, directly connected to the NATO staff, the catapults of American manufacture propelling aircraft on the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier, the German rifles to replace the FAMAS, accompanied by a maintenance clause that puts us in a situation of dependence, Naval Group which no longer produces primarily for the French army but chooses, for example, to develop small frigates, which are more easily exportable but do not meet the needs of the French army. More broadly, our defence industry chooses the materials to be produced not according to our needs, but sales opportunities, with France preferring to buy "on shelf". Let us continue with the Reaper drones, lent by the United States, and the technicians who go with them to illuminate the targets of French aviation, the aircraft for the transport of troops leased by France which is lacking, the integration of the Defence Innovation Agency into the NATO innovation network. These are some examples of the loss of sovereignty in the defence of our country. These considerations lead me to the second point, that of leaving NATO, which seems to me the best way to regain our independence. The process would take a long time, I am aware, and would involve a significant investment by the nation in human, material and financial resources. Such an approach could not be done with a magic wand. However, France's financial contribution to NATO could be redirected to other posts to facilitate this exit. That is why we propose to start by leaving the integrated command immediately. NATO. That would be a first step. A great popular debate should also be opened in France to reflect on the contours of a defence and security policy freed from NATO and capable of ensuring the independence of the European peoples. In fact, NATO is itself in crisis. Turkey, outside the United States, Great Britain and France, has the only worthy army in NATO. It decided to give priority to its own nationalist ambitions by unhindered launching its army against the Kurdish people. Of course, France, supported by Germany, is trying to create a European pillar within NATO in order to deal equally with the United States; But the Pentagon has no intention of sharing his absolute leadership. On the other hand, it does everything to ensure that European armies are fully integrated into its military system, for the greatest benefit of the American military-industrial complex. The ITAR regulation – regulation on arms trafficking at the international level – which imposes a US right of scrutiny on any weapon since one of its components is American, provides an instructive example.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u130	He's not wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u131	I will end with nuclear deterrence, of which we are not talking enough. Let us begin by recalling its monstrous cost: 4.7 billion euros this year, or 25 billion in five years, so about 13 million euros a day! I fundamentally question the assumption that only nuclear weapons could bring ultimate security to France and its countries. On the contrary, the dangers of a nuclear arsenal far outweigh the benefits to its possessor, for three main reasons. First, there is a high risk that the weapon will proliferate to States, malicious or unstable organizations. Secondly, this weapon is inadequate for modern conflicts. Finally, the deterrence strategy could turn against the countries that have it themselves. We need to read the proposals of the information report recently submitted by Jean-Paul Lecoq and Michel Fanget and learn from them. A process could be implemented if we finally give up refusing the debate. In the name of what a priori could we not ask the question of nuclear deterrence in our country? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I will conclude by saying that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, as you suspected, will not vote for the appropriations for this mission. The reason is not due to the specificities of this budget, of which several advances – which I have not developed to concentrate on the three priority points in my view – are welcome; It lies in the fact that, for years, the defence budget has not allowed France to maintain true sovereignty and independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u132	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u133	The second year of a military programming law is always carefully scrutinized, and rightly so. In this law desired by the President of the Republic, we have in fact made strong commitments for the re-launching of our armies so that, in a strategic environment that is deteriorating every day, they never fail their primary mission: to protect the French. The finance bill for 2020 is up to these commitments. The upsurge is continuing and accelerating. On the broad lines, first of all, EUR 37.5 billion will be allocated to defence, i.e. EUR 1.7 billion more than last year at constant scope. Our budget is on the rise for the third consecutive year: it brings our defence effort to 1.86% of GDP in 2020 and we are on our way to achieving the 2% target by 2025. I would also like to stress that this is a sincere budget, which is based only on budgetary appropriations and makes no bets on exceptional revenue. To go into detail, it is above all a man-sized budget that actually improves the living conditions of our military and their families and accelerates the achievement of our ambitions. €80 million will be allocated to the family plan, launched two years ago, compared to €57 million in 2019. We will also work to improve the accommodation conditions for the military, to which we will commit EUR 177 million in 2020. Finally, this PLF does not forget the daily equipment essential to our forces: as an example, 100% of the military deployed in OPEX will be equipped, in 2020, with the new fire-resistant mesh that will better protect them, in accordance with our commitments. This budget also continues the extensive program of renewal of the operational capabilities of our armies. The year 2020 will see, among other things, the continued arrival of the Griffon – exactly 128 – and the delivery of the first four Jaguar tanks, the Suffren submarine and the third MRTT Phoenix supply aircraft. Finally, I would like to add this figure: two thirds of the EUR 1.7 billion budget increase will be devoted to the major weapons programmes of our armies. For we do not lose sight of innovation and preparation for future conflicts, so that our forces always have the advantage on the ground. With €821 million dedicated specifically to innovation through upstream study credits, we will have the means to design tomorrow's technologies; This represents an 8% increase over 2019. With 448 million euros, we will be able to develop our space capabilities and renew our satellites. Finally, 300 positions will be created, mainly in the areas of cyber, artificial intelligence and intelligence. We know that these exceptional means give us exceptional responsibility. Every euro spent must be a useful euro. In this sense, we are continuing the transformation of the Ministry of Armed Forces by reducing the number of hierarchical strata, breaking the silos and relocating some of our services outside Ile-de-France: the command of space will be installed in Toulouse and the command of cyberdefence in Rennes. For my part, I am particularly committed to the quality of implementation of the decisions we take, because it is on the ground that our reforms are taking shape. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The budget presented in the 2020 PLF is at the rendezvous of the commitments of the military programming law. It confirms our ambitions and supports our desire to accelerate the re-alignment of our armies. It will benefit not only the security of the French, but also our businesses, our jobs and our territories. I now rely on you to adopt it and form the basis of our achievements in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u134	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u135	The military-nation bond is an essential guide for the cohesion of the national community. This link is inseparable from the recognition and respect of all our veterans; It must be maintained by active memory work and developed with the youth of France. That is the ambition of the draft budget that I have the honour to present to you tonight. The 2020 budget is both a budget of continuity, sustainability and evolution. Continuity, because all the rights of veterans are preserved – all of them. Perennialisation, because it is the budgetary translation of the allocation of the combatant's card to the soldiers sent to Algeria between 1962 and 1964, in accordance with what we decided together last year. 35,000 cards will have been allocated at the end of 2019 on 50,000 cards planned for the term. Sustainability and evolution, to better care for the most vulnerable and better serve those in need. This is done with the maintenance of the ONAC's social action budget of EUR 26 million, despite the decrease in the number of its citizens, and with the increase in the military disability pensions paid to surviving spouses of a great war invalid, which makes it possible to better accompany those who have helped a great disabled person throughout their lives. The continuation, also, of the missions of ONAC, an essential operator of the State with the fighting world, whose departmental anchoring is a top priority for the Government. In order for ONAC to serve better, its future missions will include the evolution of its modus operandi and adaptation to the evolution of the fighting world. We are also committed to the National Institution of Invalides. It is not only a question of financing its operation, but also of investing: so we will be contributing EUR 13.5 million in 2020 to the heavy infrastructure work that will start soon. We want to accompany the transformation of this establishment into a major centre of physical and psychological rehabilitation for our war wounded. The "Memorandum" budget is consolidated. It maintains our efforts in the maintenance and rehabilitation of high places of memory and burials. It also prepares the commemorative themes for the year 2020 and provides for an additional funding of EUR 500000 for educational activities for young people. I propose to devote it to the fight against hatred and prejudice: in fact, we will celebrate in 2020 the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camps. Finally, I would like to detail the use of the funds devoted to the armed link with young people. Voluntary military service will be sustained, as will defence and citizenship day, for which the youth transportation allowance will be increased, which is a direct assistance to families. The overall budget of the "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" mission will be €2.16 billion, a decrease of €130 million compared to last year. This decrease, which reflects that of the number of beneficiaries, is nothing exceptional: it was 218 million euros in 2009 and 150 million in 2015. However, this budget allows us to meet all the commitments made during successive legislatures and those we have made ourselves since June 2017. It takes care of the most fragile and allows them to better accompany them, serve them better and support them better. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I call on you to vote on this budget that is so important for the fighting world as for the armed-nation bond that I care so much about. This link will be a highlight on November 11 at the occasion of the inauguration by the President of the Republic of the monument to the dead for France in external operations, which some of you have already mentioned. This monument is expected by all our soldiers, who will see there the nation's commitment to their unwavering commitment; It is expected by the families of our dead soldiers for France, who will find there the recognition of the nation and will be able to gather there; It will be particularly important for the public, who will become aware of the strength of our soldiers' commitment to our collective freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u136	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u137	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, you have all been able to see that I have shown myself this benevolent afternoon, some will say lax, in terms of speaking time. As regards questions and the defence of amendments, I would ask you to respect the time allowed by the Rules of Procedure. We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the question and the answer must be held in two minutes each. Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u138	Madam Minister, as we come together today to vote on the second programming budget, I am pleased to see that it, like the previous one, is faithful to the commitments made at the beginning of the quinquennium. It is this sincerity in the execution of our defence strategy that allows us to think of the future with optimism and to be prepared to face the changes of the world and its unpredictability. There is no shortage of challenges and innovation plays a key role in meeting them. We must be aware of this: tomorrow's war will be technological or not. It is already so, and we must continue to have a time ahead of our opponents to guarantee our soldiers operational superiority and, beyond that, to France its strategic autonomy. As the driving force behind military innovation, the young Defence Innovation Agency – AID – created on September 1, 2018, wants to take us "to infinity and beyond". I am pleased to see how challenging this new institution is every day with, for example, hydrogen drones, optical components, infrasound sensors, powder metallurgy or electromagnetic intelligence from space. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] A year after it was created, how do you assess the action of the Defence Innovation Agency? To what extent will it be able to move the lines in 2020? How will the agency be able to capture and showcase the nuggets in the territories? What will its role be in the development of artificial intelligence, especially ethics? How can we boost the financing of innovation so that the ideas of our inventors survive the crossing of the valley of death and lead to demonstrators?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u139	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u140	As you have pointed out, innovation is at the heart of the priorities that the Ministry of Armed Forces has set itself: that is why I wanted the creation of the Defence Innovation Agency in 2018, which not only brings together devices previously dispersed within the Ministry, but also enriches them thanks, among other things, to the establishment of an innovation cell open to the civil world and start-ups and the creation of Defence Innovation Lab. While much has happened in a year, the period is not sufficient to make a real assessment. However, Innovation défense lab has labeled twenty-one innovation acceleration projects. We also organized the first Defence Innovation Forum a year ago, which presented the many innovations supported by the ministry, including Franky Zapata's Flyboard Air. The AID has also developed the Defence Innovation Policy Paper and, in 2020, our investment in the future will be strengthened: €821 million will be spent on innovation and the preparation of tomorrow's technologies, such as artificial intelligence – almost 8% growth compared to 2019. Our goal is to reach one billion by 2022, as set out in the MPA. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups]] These appropriations include a €50 million allocation for the RAPID programme – a support scheme for dual innovation – for SMEs that are irrigating all our territories: they must also play a powerful role in open innovation. Artificial intelligence, robotics and military health are at the heart of our work programme for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u141	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u142	Madam Secretary of State, first of all I would like to pay tribute to the Government for its constant budgetary efforts to recognize the commitment of yesterday and today. While maintaining funding for existing arrangements, you continue to work on recurring demands from veterans and the essential needs of the military-nation relationship. Again this year, progress has been made, with the financing of the combatant's card 1962-1964, the upgraded pension of the surviving spouse of a great invalid or the upgrading of the transportation allowance for defence and citizenship days. Let us also note all the actions that are little discussed, such as your attention to the civil status substitutes reported under ordinary law or the plan to award medals with staple to the nuclear test personnel. These successes are to be credited with your listening and your method of concertation. [[Mr. Fabien Lainé applauds]] In the coming months, the tripartite commissions on military disability pensions will be prepared and held. In an environment of dialogue between the ministry, Parliament and veterans' associations, an essential topic can be put on the table for recognition due to the fighting world. That is why I would like to ask you first of all about your intentions regarding the organisation of the tripartite committee on the index point for military disability pensions. Secondly, can you confirm to us that the method of consultation with the fighting world that you set up in 2018 and continued in 2019 will be in 2020, in order to address in a calm and constructed manner many recurrent requests, those that accompany us from budget to budget, to question the Government in question to the Government and from legislature to legislature?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u143	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u144	Yes, the consultation will continue: I put it in place in 2018, it continued in 2019; It will continue in 2020. Working groups bring together associations on various topics. The objective is to work together on measures important to the combatant world, as well as to make it reflect on the future of associations of the combatant world, memory and commemorations. The tripartite commission between the Government, parliamentarians and associations is a demand of the fighting world, in order to determine together the evolution of the point, which seems to me a more important subject than the increase in points, for example, for the retreat of the fighter. If I have asked the associations to wait for 2020, it is to know the effects of the evolution of the new remuneration of civil servants known as PPCR – career paths, careers and remuneration – since, as you know, the combatant's point of index is linked to the remuneration of civil servants. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Concertation is my method: it works well because it is adapted to the fighting world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u145	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u146	We are wondering about the withdrawals made from the ONAC-VG cash flow – the National Office of Veterans and War Victims – as well as about the willingness to dematerialize all the specific approaches to the fighting world by 2022. With regard to the first point, in 2020, this public institution will receive a cash flow of EUR 17 million. At your hearing on 2 October before the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, you said that the cash flow of the ONAC-VG was very much in excess of 40 million euros. While this can be justified, it is in addition to the decrease in the number of posts – thirty-three full-time equivalents less – and the reduction in the overall budget allocated to ONAC-VG. Moreover, this reduction in resources seems to be in slight contradiction with the desire to dematerialize all procedures by 2022. Indeed, while dematerialisation can be a source of savings, it often requires additional expenditure to be implemented and properly implemented. While the modernization of the ONAC-VG seems timely, it must not, of course, be done at the expense of the oldest and most isolated citizens who, for many, are unable to undertake digital approaches. Can you assure us that the withdrawals from the Agency's treasury are made on an exceptional basis? Can you assure us that committed dematerialization will not jeopardize the departmental architecture of this operator essential for the territories, for the duty of memory, and for veterans, who need support and local support?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u147	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u148	You're attached to ONAC, so am I. You mention its cash flow: it is very surplus – almost 45 million euros at the end of 2018 – which is abnormal for a public operator. The levy of EUR 17.5 million will therefore not affect the operation of the establishment and will not put it at all in difficulty; It is an exceptional operation, a guarantee of sound accounting management. With regard to dematerialization, rest assured: it is not aimed at older veterans, but at internal procedures. For example, a central unit is responsible for cards and titles, so that departmental NAC staff can focus on the veterans themselves, without taking on any more administrative tasks. It is therefore a matter of freeing them of time, so that they are better at the service of the citizens. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group, as well as on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I really wanted to reassure you on these subjects, as well as on the maintenance of the ONACs in each department of France, whether in metropolitan France or overseas, and in some offices in North Africa.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u149	I call the "Defence" mission's appropriations, which are listed in Statement B. Fifty-three amendments were tabled. I suggest that you look at them all during this sitting, but it assumes that everyone – speakers, rapporteurs, ministers – is extremely succinct in their remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u151	Mr André Chassaigne will set an example, since he has the floor to support Amendment No 757.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u152	Indeed, especially since I have already defended this amendment in my speech by referring to nuclear deterrence. I will not repeat what I said in the gallery earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u153	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u154	I'll also be very fast. It's a posture amendment; Our strategy has been acted upon and is supported by the current military programming law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u155	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u156	Same opinion. We discussed this issue at length during the debate on the military programming bill for the years 2019 to 2025. Even though this debate deserves time, I will not go back to the substance, because I don't think the 2020 finance bill is the place for this – especially if you want to finish the review of this mission's appropriations by the end of the session!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u157	I'm afraid I'm not the only one who wants to, Madam Minister! Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u158	One comment on the vocabulary used by the rapporteur: my amendment does not reflect a posture, but an old position.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u159	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 916.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u160	It aims to make the budget for action on the operational readiness of land forces a little more coherent or, at the very least, to obtain serious and in-depth explanations of what we believe to be a contradiction. Indeed, our amendment seeks to restore the EUR 150 million of appropriations removed from Action 55 of Programme 212, which allows the remuneration of personnel responsible for the operational preparation of the ground forces and whose funding is included in Programme 178. However, the appropriations for this programme are only increasing by around €20 million. We are entitled to take the view that the appropriations allocated to managerial staff should not be allowed to be reduced. Everyone understands that increasing the appropriations for operational readiness while reducing those allocated to personnel assigned to this preparation does not seem to be consistent. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to remedy this situation, or at least to obtain specific explanations from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u161	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u162	Again, I doubt that there is much sense in changing the Army's payroll projections without changing its employment patterns or, ultimately, the direction of our defence, since you want to remove the aerial component of nuclear deterrence. The debate on national defence is, of course, desirable and necessary. However, I do not believe that it is up to Parliament to replace the military staff or even to exercise the prerogatives of the President of the Republic. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u164	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u165	I put to the vote Amendment No 916.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u166	Mr President, I ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u167	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 915.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u168	Is it therefore impossible for my colleague Bastien Lachaud to reply to the minister and the rapporteur, Mr President?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u169	But, yes, that is quite possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u170	The proof that you didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u171	I obviously have serious eye problems, because I just didn't see you asking for the floor, Mr. Lachaud. Forgive me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u172	Of which act. Amendment No 915 is intended to remind us that France is not always in a position to exercise its sovereignty over its maritime territory. Again this year, the Navy's operational contract is only 70 per cent completed. This situation leaves us exposed to the looting of thousands of square kilometres of natural resources. It is stated on page 76 of the budget annex that "The Navy's ability to manage crises is improving [...]. However, it will remain capped as a result of a strong pooling, weakened by the currently limited size of the parks and the insufficient availability of frigates [...], nuclear attack submarines [...] command and supply buildings [...]". So many euphemisms make it possible to measure the extent to which we are, on certain subjects, deprived. This is due in particular to the privilege given to high-tech equipment and buildings, which are particularly expensive and whose vulnerability increases as a result of their high dependence on information technology. On the other hand, more rustic buildings would fully assume presence missions characterized by average intensity in the event of confrontation. In line with our refusal to disregard the principle of interdepartmental funding of OPEX, our amendment therefore proposes to transfer half of the increase in the incremental cost of OPEX, funded by the Defence Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u174	As far as OPEX is concerned, I would like to recall the political will for budgetary consolidation. Moreover, as I mentioned in my introductory statement, the granting of additional appropriations to national navy personnel is inconsistent, since they would not be used. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u175	Mr Jacques Marilossian, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u176	I think that the proposed amendment is not a good solution and I see it as a doubly demagogic dimension. First of all, as we have said, the OPEX budget is now on the path of realism and sincerity: to take away resources from it is to return to the old practices of undervaluation, and therefore of redistribution of effort, which, as a result, would remove investment appropriations from the navy. Your proposal would therefore have a totally counterproductive effect. In addition, you are proposing a simultaneous increase in commitment authorities and payment appropriations. This is a step forward compared to last year, where you forgot the commitment authorizations! However, ladies and gentlemen, the execution of a military budget is not simply a matter of manipulating figures in a table: there are delays in tendering, selection, manufacturing, delivery and putting into active service. So 150 million euros, yes, but to order what? We are waiting for your proposals. And above all, 150 million euros of payment appropriations, yes, but to pay what? The deadlines I have just mentioned are not compatible with your proposal. In order to have equipment to pay in 2020, you would still have had to order it in 2018 – or 2019, according to the above mentioned deadlines. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u178	[[Smile]] The arguments put forward by the rapporteurs seemed to me to be very comprehensive. I will not risk using the imperfection of the subjunctive, and will therefore merely give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u179	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u180	I'll be brief. You want us to go fast, either! But to debate with this level of response, this level of controversy and aggressiveness is of no use. In these circumstances, indeed, it will go very quickly. We may disagree with our proposals, but this does not oblige this sentimental and extremely unpleasant lesson-giving tone, nor the use of the imperfect subjunctif to answer us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u181	Mr. Corbière...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u182	Frankly, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u183	I didn't say I totally disagreed with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u184	We don't have to receive lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u185	If we want to debate in a serene atmosphere despite the imperatives of speed, I believe that everyone must indeed strive not to revive the debate by using controversial formulas. In any event, if I have the feeling that there is a will to revive, I will make the choice to give the floor to all parties. I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 917.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u186	In this country, Parliament has the right to discuss defence issues only once a year. We are one of the few democracies in which defence issues are never addressed in the Chamber. Of course, we can deal with more than EUR 30 billion of budget in less than an hour and a half – you have shown us that this is possible, even though I have noted that you do not want to continue on this line. In a democracy, dealing with defence issues over the leg, as we are doing, is really not serious. Amendment No 917 is therefore being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u188	This amendment, which has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance, echoes the debate we have at the beginning of the afternoon. If we can only see some of NATO's shortcomings, do we have to turn away from this framework? Earlier, we reaffirmed our solidarity with the Kurdish people. I believe that it is through diplomatic and humanitarian action that our action will be most effective. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u190	I am not in favour of this amendment, and I would like to give a substantive answer to Mr Lachaud. First of all, with regard to the contribution to NATO, which you wish to reduce, France is content to honour the commitments it has made. No more, no less. A challenge to alliance membership can be discussed, but it is another subject; to the extent that we are part of it, it seems consistent to me that we are assuming the corresponding budgetary commitments. On the other hand, my personal conviction is that this alliance seems to me to complement France's national sovereignty. This does not mean, however, that we are prepared to accept any behaviour. You were right to point out the extremely serious situation currently prevailing in the north-east of Syria. I would add that the President of the Republic condemned without appeal the unilateral intrusion of Turkey, a member of the Atlantic Alliance, into Syria, and that I myself had the opportunity to speak with my Turkish counterpart at a meeting last week in NATO. France has taken several decisions, including the suspension of all arms exports to Turkey and the formal announcement last week of the commitment to deploy anti-aircraft defence batteries in Turkey. Of all the countries that have made this commitment, we are the only one that has called it into question. In conclusion, we activate all possible diplomatic channels to ensure that Turkey respects international law, especially if it should, as seems to be the case, relocate the Syrian refugees who had migrated to Turkey in mass and against their will. If it were proved, it would be in contradiction with international law. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr President, as you can see, we continue to be with our Kurdish allies; We are well aware that the struggle against Daesh is not extinguished with the death of Al-Baghdadi, just as we are aware of the value and contribution of our Kurdish partners in this ongoing fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u191	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u192	Thank you, Minister, for your substantive response. We will be able to continue the debate on France's interest in participating in NATO: strategically, it is a real substantive subject, especially for our national independence. If you wish to build a European defence, our amendment could have served you: indeed, it seems more complicated if you are part of NATO than if you are outside the alliance. Having said that, and given the substantive response to France's commitment alongside our Kurdish allies, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u193	Mr Joaquim Pueyo, in support of Amendment No. 616, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u194	It aims to support real estate policy that directly affects the daily lives of military personnel. I will not recall the interest, this is a subject on which I spoke a few moments ago, at the beginning of the discussions on this mission. We recognise the desired effort, particularly on the Operation "Achieving the infrastructure of the defence bases", but it seems that the reductions envisaged in the PLF for 2020 on the budget operation "Supporting the families" is beginning the ambitions displayed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u196	This year, there is a change in the scope of program 212. With regard to the budget operation "Supporting families", payment appropriations are, of course, falling significantly, but commitment authorisations are on the contrary increasing sharply. In all likelihood, payments planned for 2020 will have been staggered towards the next few years. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u197	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u198	The Committee on Defence has not considered this amendment, but I am also against it in my personal capacity and for the same reasons as the Special Rapporteur. The Ministry has launched a housing plan in addition to the family plan, with a 40 per cent increase in appropriations. In Mr Claude de Ganay's report here, I read that the funds for family housing rental remain stable compared to 2019. Overall, therefore, it is a very good budget for family accommodation and housing. It cannot therefore be said, as you suggest, that housing and accommodation are the ones left behind on account of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u200	It is not useful to go back to what is your pledge, i.e. the credits of deterrence, I have already answered on this point. For the rest, I fully share your desire to make housing and housing a priority, and this budget shows this: the funding for housing is 74% higher and the funding for housing for families is 24% higher than last year. Not everything will be done in a year, I'll give it to you. We have therefore planned this effort over several years under the military programming law, which provides for an amount of EUR 1 billion for accommodation. There's a lot of delay to catch up with, you're right, and that can't be done in a single year. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u201	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u202	With Laurent Furst, I am in charge of a report on the real estate strategy of the armies and in particular on the strategy concerning accommodation and housing. We will soon deliver our conclusions. We have gone around, from bases to military camps, and we have seen things that do not honor our predecessors. This 74% increase in the housing budget is therefore to be welcomed. This budget has even been multiplied by three if one refers to the previous legislature – which explains the state in which we find some buildings, which still have holes in the walls. In short, the budgetary effort is honourable, and we must stick to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u203	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u204	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and say to the draftsman that I have never denied that an effort has been made. But I am listening to the Supreme Council of the Military Service, for example, which reminded us of the need to strengthen property policy. There has been a great deal of delay for many years, as the minister said, and the amendment tended to draw attention to these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u205	I call Mr Joaquim Pueyo to support Amendment No. 614.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u206	We propose to increase significantly the resources made available to Defence Mobility, the reconversion agency of the Ministry of Armed Forces, in order to improve the capture of personnel leaving the army outside a probationary period or age limit, and which must therefore be accompanied in order to return to stable employment. Again, I am not saying that no effort has been made, but if we want to attract military personnel, we must necessarily step up conversion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u208	The appropriations for conversion are actually falling. However, according to the explanations I was able to obtain during the hearings, this decrease is due to the improvement of the labour market and to under-consumption of appropriations in 2018. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u210	Once again, I do not go back to the pledge because we have all told each other about it. On the other hand, I can only share your concern about the objective pursued, that is, the effective conversion of the military and their spouses. I have the feeling that with the resources it will be given again in 2020, i.e. EUR 32.3 million, the Agency will have the means to carry out the number of internships necessary to ensure the conversion of the military and their families: more than 17,000 internships can be financed next year. I would point out that the number of military personnel accompanied by this agency is increasing: 70% of personnel undergoing conversion were accompanied in 2019, compared to 66% in 2018. And military access to employment, which is the Agency's ultimate goal, is also improving: 62% in 2019 compared to 60% in 2018. I fully share your concern and believe that the means used contribute to an improvement in the results I have just mentioned. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u211	Amendments Nos 911, 913 and 918 may be presented in a consolidated format. I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u212	The aim of Amendment No 911 is to neutralise the increase in appropriations allocated to the operation of ministerial offices. This increase in excess of inflation is all the less understandable as, in the same programme, the budget for general control of the armies – CGA – decreases. Rather unpleasant and inopportune, it gives a somewhat contradictory signal to the military and the population. [[Smile]] The adoption of this amendment would help you, Madam Minister, because it would prevent you from making criticisms that might put you in trouble. We propose to remove this increase and reallocate the sum to the preparation of the air force.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u213	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendments Nos 913 and 918.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u214	As my colleague has just said, the budget for general control of the armies is falling, which poses a serious problem, since this body has the task of managing the Themis cell, one of the main instruments for combating discrimination and harassment in the armies. But the cell is understaffed. I carried out with Christophe Lejeune a fact-finding mission on the evaluation of anti-discrimination measures in the armed forces, and in our report we proposed that the staff of Thémis be increased. When we discussed the subject during last year's budget debates, you told us that you were waiting for the conclusions of our fact-finding mission before deciding whether to hire staff for the Themis cell. I fear that the decline in the CGA budget will call into question the increase in the number of staff in the cell. Amendment No 913 therefore seeks to replenish the budget of the CGA in order to be able to hire more people in the Themis cell. Amendment No 918 is an appeal amendment, always in the continuity of our work on discrimination within the armed forces. We propose the creation of a kind of military ombudsman, that is, an independent institution of the armed forces, which would be a remedy for victims of discrimination and could prevent their isolation. It would serve as a mediator. This type of institution, which exists in many countries with armies similar to ours, would usefully complement the Themis cell. Of course, this is an appeal amendment since we plan to provide the agency with a budget of 1 euro, but we would like, Madam Minister, to have your opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u216	Mr Corbière, the appropriations you refer to do not only cover the staff costs of the Office of the Minister of Armed Forces and the Office of the Secretary of State for Veterans Affairs, but also the administrative staff costs of the Office of General Officers and the Branch of the Offices of the Cabinets. These appropriations were EUR 39 million in 2017 and EUR 44 million in 2018. The planned allocation of 37 million for 2020 therefore remains below these levels. Opinion against all amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u217	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u218	Mr Corbière, you are right to raise the issue because reading the figures can lead to erroneous conclusions. What did we want to do? In accordance with the Prime Minister's instructions, we wanted to reduce the number of ministerial offices. We did it in 2019 for 64 people – when I say ministerial cabinet, I'm talking about the sub-directorate of the office of the cabinets, so a much wider perimeter. In 2020, we expect a reduction of 37 positions. In 2019, when we cut the workforce by 64 people, we cut the payroll far too sharply, which leads us to correct this effect in 2020. When we compare the situation of 2020 compared to 2018, by erasing this error committed in 2019, we find a change in the wage bill strictly proportional to the evolution of the workforce. In other words, the workforce will have been reduced by 15%, as will the payroll. So this year we are correcting a mistake made last year. I come to the Themis cell, which you wish to provide with additional resources through Amendment No 913. First of all, it is not because the overall appropriations for general control of the armies are decreasing that we intend to reduce those of the Themis cell. This is absolutely not our intention: the means of the Themis cell will obviously be preserved. You know how much attention I pay to this policy. It seems to me essential that we provide ourselves with the means to have zero tolerance for acts of harassment that can be committed in the armed forces as elsewhere. On the contrary, we intend to rely on the recently enacted Public Service Transformation Act, which provides for the generalization of reporting and support mechanisms for victims of harassment and discrimination, to change our own system, which, it must be acknowledged, was rather a precursor. We will therefore review the administrative investigation procedures so that the human resources devoted to this important subject are fully dedicated to victim monitoring and training. We will have the opportunity to come back to it in more detail as you have produced an important report on the subject. Anyway, I wanted to reassure you that the means of the Themis cell will not be called into question. With Amendment No 918, you express your desire to see the development of ombudsman-type institutions in the armed forces. I do not agree with your observation that the rights of the military would not be fully guaranteed. The system of protection and guarantee of these rights is, I believe, exemplary. It is the necessary counterpart to the fact that there is no trade union representation in the armies. The General Inspection Corps is independent of the military hierarchy and ensures, in all bodies under my authority, the protection of the rights of persons. For the past 20 years, there has also been a Military Appeals Board. It may be brought before any member of the military, as a preliminary compulsory administrative remedy, before any referral to the administrative judge. In 2005, the High Military Assessment Committee was established to inform the President of the Republic and Parliament on the situation and developments in the military situation. I think, like all your colleagues, you appreciate the quality of the reports it produces year after year. Finally, a mediation mechanism has recently been set up within the armed forces to conduct non-dispute dispute resolution. Thanks to these various devices, it seems to me that we are very close to the objective that you are calling for, Mr President. I therefore express an opinion against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u219	Mr Christophe Lejeune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u220	I would like to respond to Amendments Nos 913 and 918 by Bastien Lachaud. We had the pleasure of working together on the report that inspired them. I have heard what the minister has said about the expertise of our institution and our armed forces. It should also be stressed that what has been in place for several years is exemplary. I thank Bastien Lachaud for highlighting one of the recommendations of our report in Amendment No 913. Indeed, all armed forces are promoting zero tolerance of deviant behaviour – a point on which we all agree. However, the main challenge remains to detect these behaviours. That is why we propose to reorganize certain devices within the Themis cell. Guaranteeing autonomy in relation to the military hierarchy but nevertheless with a good understanding of the military specificities, Thémis would have its position maintained under the aegis of the general control of the armies. The number of staff in the cell would be significantly increased to at least eight. Themis would be more specifically responsible for the legal management of situations causing suffering: its scope would therefore be extended to include moral harassment and discrimination of all kinds, in connection with the inspection of the army's labour. If the increase in the number of the staff of Thémis seems essential to me, it would seem inappropriate to punctuate the budget for action 6 of programme 146, on deterrence, given the need to maintain the credibility of France and to respect the path we have set out in the law on military programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u221	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u222	With regard to Amendment No 911, we have heard from the Minister. We have the feeling that there were ad effects in 2019, which are corrected this year... We will therefore withdraw the amendment. With regard to Amendment No 913 I would be pleased, Madam Minister, to study with you in detail the reorganization that you are planning for all of these arrangements. As Mr Lejeune pointed out, we have made strong proposals on these issues. If you guarantee us that Themis' staff are maintained, we will withdraw the amendment. As for Amendment No 918, unlike you, Madam Minister, we do not consider that the arrangements which you have referred to would be equivalent to a body completely independent of the armies. The Ombudsperson's lead should not be abandoned. In any event, we have already had this debate and can extend it on other occasions. We also withdraw this third amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u223	I have before me two amendments, Nos 612 and 613, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u224	Amendment No 612 concerns the allocation of operational fuels, for which you are planning EUR 46 million, on the basis of a reduction in the price of the barrel of brent from EUR 63 in 2019 to EUR 59 in 2020. But the army says security and prudence. We would like to see the assumption of stability in the price of oil adopted in order to take account of the uncertainties and international risks that could affect the price of oil. We therefore propose to abound this additional €3 million. As for Amendment No 613, it concerns the supply of diesel fuel, corresponding to a consumption of 20,280 cubic metres. We are therefore asking for an additional €1644500 for the same reasons. You will of course be able to round the sum up with a subamendment, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u225	On the appropriations of the "Defence" mission, I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the Committee on Amendments Nos 612 and 613?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u226	We already studied them last year. The minister had issued an unfavorable notice because the supply contracts entered into by the service of the military essences are likely to mitigate the variations in prices. Our opinion is therefore unfavourable on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u227	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 632.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u228	This is an amendment that I would normally call, in order to discuss a serious matter. We sell arms to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, while these two countries are participating in the war in Yemen. As you know, the report published by the United Nations at the end of January 2018 clearly accuses these countries of a disproportionate use of force. The Arab coalition, of which they are members, often targets civilians and uses famine as a weapon of war. According to the provisions of the Arms Trade Treaty – TCA – we would be prohibited from selling arms to them. However, Saudi Arabia remains France's second largest customer and the United Arab Emirates, the sixth largest. I candidly say that today's control over this trade is insufficient and requires profound reform. Parliament is completely absent from the decision-making process for the issuance of export licences for war material. In other European countries – including some that you sometimes cite as an example, Madam Minister – more scrutiny by Parliament allows for better regulation of arms export authorisations. France can no longer suffer on this subject from the existing opacity, which often leads to flagrant violations of international law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u230	The committee did not consider this amendment, the subject of which seems to be purely controversial. I do not think that it is advancing the debate on the issues raised by arms exports to certain countries. I refer you to the resolution we have just adopted unanimously on the Turkish military offensive, and I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u232	This issue of arms exports is a serious issue that we are trying to address seriously, first of all by publishing a report to Parliament, which, I would say, because you sometimes tease me about deadlines, was submitted this year six weeks before the hearing in the Committee on Finance. It took place before the summer and I regretted that, on matters of schedule, you could not participate in it. As you know, I am at the disposal of Parliament to answer any question, if the committee invites me to do so. In any case, I would like to give you next year an appointment for the publication of a report which I hope is even more complete than this year. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u233	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u234	Let me tell you with great respect, minister, that this debate, from a certain point of view, is going beyond you. It is not your opinion that is at stake, but the functioning of our institutions and the fact that Parliament does not have any real means of control, despite the information you are transmitting to us. It's an important subject. The Special Rapporteur referred to the unanimous adoption of the resolution on the condemnation of the Turkish military offensive. For my part, I do not see how it would be controversial to want to discuss such serious matters: France sells arms to a military coalition, including Saudi Arabia, which is responsible for a tragedy that is currently taking place. On the other hand, I believe that the debate that I wish to open, which is controversial, is to be rejected. I admit that this House is probably not the place for this discussion, but our institutions have not provided for such a place. So I just took the opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u235	I put to the vote the appropriations of the Defence Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u236	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 77 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 59 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u237	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 429.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u238	The previous law of military programming has carried out major restructuring of all our regiments, to the detriment of some of our territories, completely emptied. In my town of Châlons-en-Champagne, as many as 1200 military jobs were eliminated and 130 hectares of military wasteland left to the community. The State accompanies the territories most affected by these restructurings, by means of two tools: on the one hand contracts for the revitalization of defence sites, and on the other hand the possibility of giving to the symbolic euro the military land thus abandoned. This possibility of cession to the symbolic euro was provided for by the Finance Law for 2015 until 2021. The aim of this amendment is to maintain it until 2024 to allow the territories to take advantage of this opportunity. It is essential for them to find project promoters who will ensure the recovery of these empty military sites. The amendment has a second part. For some territories, this transfer to the symbolic euro could only be intended for social housing organisations. In some places, however, this particular clause has proved inappropriate. This amendment therefore proposes to revert to this mechanism. It is important to stress that this amendment does not cost the state any money, since when it gives up its land to the symbolic euro, it fails to fulfil its obligations as a polluter owner. If he were to sell them at their fair price, he would be forced to clean them up before the sale.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u240	This amendment was the subject of lengthy discussions in committee, during which the difficulties of communities and donors in carrying out these operations were discussed. In view of the proposals and the details put forward by Mrs Magnier, I have a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u242	I, too, have a favourable opinion. We must indeed facilitate divestitures, which have taken place at too slow a pace in recent years. Some could not succeed because the ministry's services had not released the land within the time limits – this was the case in Châlons-en-Champagne, Drachenbronn or Châteaudun. The extension until 2024 is therefore welcome. In addition, you propose to relax the terms of transfer when housing buildings are concerned. This provision is also welcome. These two aspects will facilitate the conversion of the liberated right-of-way and thus prevent the continuation of the military wasteland.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u243	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u244	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM, MODEM and SOC groups]] I thank the Special Rapporteur and the Minister for their favourable opinion. Our territories need it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u245	I call Mr Joaquim Pueyo to support Amendment No. 605.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u246	This appeal amendment tends to ask for a report – it does not commit our public finances – explaining how the draft finance law actually enshrines European cooperation, and how the latter fully participates in the French strategy of autonomy, in a context of rising international risks. While France's ability to drive its European partners towards greater convergence depends closely on the scale and quality of its own defence effort, in particular to close its capacity gaps, European cooperation must now be fully integrated into the national defence strategy. This applies both to industry and to research.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u248	The same amendment had already been defended last year. I believe that the special rapporteurs and members of the Defence Committee have enough information not to ask for additional information. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u249	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u250	I have had the opportunity to answer many questions during the examination of this draft budget in committee. I understand that this is an appeal amendment, in which you invite us to discuss the very important issues posed by the European cooperation programmes for the equipping of our armies in the coming decades. While we are going to consider several amendments requesting further reports, I would like to reiterate that I will always be at the disposal of those Members who wish to hear me, if of course the Committee on Defence invites me to do so, to provide all the information they may wish, on the question of European cooperation as well as on others. I give an unfavorable opinion to Amendment No 605, but understand that this is not a refusal to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u251	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor to support Amendment No. 882.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u252	The defence budget for 2020 includes the order of the first four European MALE drone systems. This is a positive signal for Europe's defence, its sovereignty and its industrial sector. However, past experience has shown us that cooperative programmes are often subject to difficulties related, for example, to additional specifications which can lead to a drift in costs and significant delays, as was the case with the A400M. The European MALE drone programme has already been the subject of some criticism, particularly as regards the cost of its implementation and the achievement of the target price. DGA has entered into tough negotiations with the project partners, and we support it in its action. It is from this perspective that Amendment No 882 seeks to ask the Government for a report enabling Parliament to exercise its control activity, and above all to be fully informed of the compromises that could have been made and the assurances obtained by DGA for the benefit of our armies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u253	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u254	I obviously share Mrs Pouzyreff's substantive concern about this issue, which is very important for our cooperation with Germany in the field of defence. The MALE programme is a structuring programme. I do not go back to our principled position on the requests for reports, which the minister has expressed very well. However, without wanting to call for my report, he is directly interested in this issue – I will come back to it in a moment. In addition, in the course of the hearings conducted by the committee, we have heard the General Delegate for Armaments and the Chiefs of Staff, who have been able to speak on this subject. As you said, Mrs. Pouzyreff, a target price has been set. Negotiations are under way. We need to think carefully about the price targets we need to target, based on three criteria: the non-recurring cost of system development – you mentioned this –, the unit price of the systems, and the impact of maintaining the system into an initial operational condition. Believe that the DGA is committed to it with great vigour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u255	The opinion of the Committee on Finance is unfavourable. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u256	As far as the method is concerned, I will not repeat the argument I have put forward for the previous amendment. The MALE drone is a major equipment. As has been said, we are in a negotiating phase, so it is impossible for me to give more information at this stage. If these negotiations succeed, as we wish, production will be launched in 2020 for a first delivery in 2027. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u257	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No 606.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u258	Minister, we have complete confidence in your availability to provide us with the desired or desirable information. However, in terms of evaluation, the submission of a report is a different approach than a hearing. This request for a report is part of the substantial increase in appropriations decided by the Military Programming Act 2019-2025. We believe it is essential to monitor the use of public money and, above all, the efficiency of expenditure, particularly in relation to the industrial groups that are partners in the ministry. This report would allow us to compare our costs with those of our European allies and within NATO.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u260	I fully agree with the spirit of your intervention. However, this is more a parliamentary initiative than a supplementary report prepared by the Ministry of Armed Forces. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u262	Mr Bricout, I have heard the justification for your amendment, but it happens that, on this particular point, even if a report is drawn up, it would be brief. The reason for this is very simple: the comparative elements are not produced by NATO countries, i.e. there is no data to detail the evolution of programme-by-programme costs. I fully understand your intention, but I think this attempt would be doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u263	I call Mr Joaquim Pueyo to support Amendment No. 607.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u264	The report requested by this amendment aims to propose improvements in the logistical coordination between the use of personnel and the use of equipment, given the constraints existing within our armies. Consideration should be given, for example, to the causes of the unavailability of equipment related to the maintenance of operational conditions and delays in the delivery of equipment, as well as to the evolution of the staff occupancy rate due to the increase in the number of missions carried out and the scheduled training hours. In other words, this report aims to improve the logistical coordination between our three armies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u265	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u266	The problem of material availability, both for operations and for training and training of personnel, is at the heart of the MPA. In my view, the arrangements for monitoring the implementation of the programming and the hearings we regularly conduct on these issues are amply sufficient. Since your amendment is satisfied, I give it an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u267	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 760.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u268	[[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] It is also a request for a report. We do not consider that all our arms purchases must be made in our country, but we want to point the finger at what I would call the "knots of sovereignty" on which our national independence depends. This national sovereignty does not exclude cooperation with other countries, provided that it is part of a completely different approach from that which is being followed today. We need to identify research teams and study offices that need to be protected and developed in areas where sovereignty is the most sensitive – for example, quantum cryptography, optronic lasers or underwater detection. Some sectors require the defence of our national sovereignty. It would be interesting for us to have more precise information on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u269	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u270	Most of our major weapons programmes would not be financially sustainable for our country's budget if they were not accompanied by an active export policy. Let me quote from the report annexed to the law on military programming: "In the industrial field, arms export policy helps to consolidate France's position on the international scene, to guarantee its strategic autonomy and to strengthen the credibility of its armed forces. As part of an economic, industrial, operational and diplomatic logic, it also contributes to the financial sustainability of our defence policy and to the development of a high level of interoperability of our capabilities. The committee therefore gave this amendment an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u272	Through this amendment, Mr Chassaigne, you raise two questions. The first is: can we, at the bottom, move from arms exports to pursue our own national weapons programmes? The military programming law foresees considerable efforts, particularly in the area of investment, which can be translated into this budget for 2020. These efforts are essential to equip our armies with the equipment they need, but we would certainly not have the means to finance these materials alone, without exporting them. That is why we are walking on two legs: national orders and exports. Second question: how do we protect the interests of our country by continuing research and development efforts in the field of precious technologies? In other words, how do we reduce our level of technological dependence? You mentioned earlier a number of countries against which we are indeed in a position of dependence. It is by pursuing, as we do under the military programming law, the growth of the resources we invest in our armies and in research and development that we will succeed in getting rid of them. I understand very well the question that you raise. I do not think that your amendment can be directly answered, but I have tried to show that I see what is behind your question, Mr Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u273	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u274	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 919.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u275	The purpose of this amendment is to obtain from the Government a report on the financial impact on the armies of the universal national service, which is being tested, in order to ensure that the participation in the installation of this system does not substantially affect the defence budget. The President of the Republic had promised not to use the armies. However, it is currently recognized that the latter will take part in the creation of the UNS. We would like to know to what extent this commitment could disrupt the performance of their other missions. This is all the more important because the UNS, as designed and experienced last summer, is irrelevant. From a military point of view, its duration does not allow any kind of actual preparation. From an educational point of view, he fetishes a certain conception of military discipline as well as the hierarchical principle instead of promoting critical thinking, an authentic civic consciousness. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The various malaise and accidents that occurred this summer are emblematic of this narrow conception: young people have been left standing in the care of you for hours, which reflects... But yes! These are testimonies that have been brought back to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u276	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u277	[["But no! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] That's the reality, though. [[Exclaims continue]] Calm down! It's reality, and it's a shame...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u278	You should do it, SNU!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Corbière conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u280	There is much to be feared that this UNS is also not able to revive the link between the army and the nation, nor to create vocations in areas of tension or high added value such as the cyber struggle. It is not by giving a false and over-year picture of "militaryity" that the UNS will justify the expenses that are imposed on us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u281	You're the one making a false image of the army!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u283	First of all, I would like to point out that budgetary expenditure on the development of the UNS is retraced within the 163 "Youth and Associative Life" programme. I refer you to sections 3 and 6 of the MPA, which state that the trajectories of budget appropriations and staff drawn for the years 2019 to 2025 do not include the possible funding of a universal national service. With regard to your request for a report, the monitoring and evaluation functions can be carried out by parliamentarians without the need for a Government report. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u284	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u285	I would not wish, Mr President, to start a debate on a mechanism which is still at a very experimental stage, with an extremely limited sample of participants. You will understand that we are not at this stage in a position to describe in detail the modalities for funding the UNS. Your question is therefore somewhat premature in relation to the rise in power of the device, but we will have to talk about it very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u286	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u287	Mr Corbière, you have referred to things that have appeared in images, but you know better than anyone else that sometimes you can distort the image and the sense of reality. You were talking about those young people who were in Evreux. I spent twelve days with them in Evreux, from beginning to end, and I was on the steps with them that day. They didn't stay for hours. You get anything to say to an image. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If I have to remember a testimony – I have it with me and I will show it to you whenever you like, dear colleague – it is that of these young people who were stigmatized, and who the next day, seeing everything that was said in the press about them, told me: "We didn't even remember that we sang Marseillaise well! It's shameful how we've been treated. We've never been insecure. We took care of ourselves. The first thing we were taught was to pay attention to the comrade who was next to us because it was hot, and if he wasn't well, you just had to warn to get him out. This is the UNS program: how to be useful when a comrade is in default. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We can get the images to say anything, and you know that. In this case, I cannot agree to hear that they would have been martyred. All these young people were proud of what they did, they had this pride in them that they had been useful to the nation, to others and to themselves. They do not agree to be stigmatized or to be victims of a system that we collectively want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u288	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 920.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u289	Madam Minister, on 12 October you announced that "any plans to export war materials to Turkey that could be used as part of the offensive" against Syria were suspended. In doing so, you have acknowledged that the export of arms to States guilty of serious violations of international law must be allowed to stop. I sincerely welcome this and thank you for taking this position, but I cannot but regret that you have not taken the same decision on Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. In recent years, however, Egypt has carried out bloody repression of its own people and of all forms of opposition, including through French materials, as demonstrated by an Amnesty International investigation. Saudi Arabia and the Emirates are engaged in a particularly heinous war in Yemen and are regularly accused of serious human rights violations, including by the experts of the UN Human Rights Council. The purpose of this report is to know how much it would cost our country to stop delivering arms to such countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u290	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u291	That's an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u293	It is also unfavorable, but I would like to answer Mr Lachaud's question. If in 2018 we had suspended arms exports to the three countries mentioned, the cost would have been 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u294	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u295	Thank you for this information, Madam Minister: this is the prize for the honour of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u296	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u297	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I find this exchange quite shocking. Perhaps it would have cost $1.4 billion, but I would have liked something other than such a dry and brutal response. I'm sorry, but we're talking about the life of human beings! We are talking about a conflict presented by the United Nations as the deadliest in the world, and the answer we have in this House, without it shocking anyone, is that we could have lost 1.4 billion! Of course, but perhaps we could ask the question in other words and say that this billion is also the price of blood.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u298	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u299	[["Yes! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I think, honourable Member, that if you had been able to attend the discussion of the previous amendments, your intervention would have been of a different nature. You come to ask your question by ignoring the previous exchanges. You have an insulting attitude towards me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u300	It's the reality that insults you, no one else!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u301	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and a few benches of the MODEM group]] We could have a much more serene debate, but that would require a little continuity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u302	Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u303	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I know your position, Madam Minister: I have already asked you several times in committee and you have always opposed me with the same denials, the same systematic denial, without ever trying to answer in substance the questions that were asked to you, particularly about Yemen. I regret it and I am telling you here, no matter what noise my colleagues can make to cover my voice: the situation in Yemen is a serious situation, which should alert us all to what we are doing to this country through our arms sales. We are the only ones in Europe to show absolutely no contrition, to have no problem with selling weapons to countries where we know how they use them! NGOs document their use week after week and in our Chamber it is radio silence! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u304	He's not wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u305	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we still have 35 amendments to consider. I remind you that our Rules of Procedure oblige us to respect the timetables set out in Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure – I take all the more pleasure in reminding those who voted that this is not my case! So we're just going to start the next mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u306	I call the "Veterans, Memory and Nation Relations" Mission credits listed in Statement B. I have before me three amendments, Nos 694, 638 and 922, which may be the subject of a thematic discussion, if you will. I call Mr Joaquim Pueyo to support Amendment No. 694.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u307	The purpose of this amendment is to increase the appropriations of the three state operators, the National Office of Veterans and War Victims, the National Institution of Invalids – INI – and the Order of Liberation – National Council of Municipalities "Companion of Liberation".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u308	You have the floor, Mr Pueyo, to support Amendment No 638.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u309	He's forbidden. We will be more precise when we consider Amendment No 636.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u310	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 922.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u311	This amendment aims to secure funding for the ONACVG and the National Institution of Invalids. Indeed, the Government's plan foresees a drastic reduction in these appropriations, to the point of completely erasing last year's budget increase in the case of the INI.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u312	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u313	I share your concerns about the transformations of the ONACVG: 42 jobs will be eliminated next year, 25 of which in the departmental services. Guarantees should be given to us regarding the preservation of the proximity network, which is the main asset of the ONACVG. Similarly, dematerialization is welcome, provided that it facilitates the process and accelerates the processing of cases; Under no circumstances should it be a pretext for making savings at the expense of the accompaniment of the fighting world. Finally, using the ONACVG's cash flow in this way seems to me to be critical for two reasons. First, the operation pursues an objective of controlling public expenditure, while this mission is already naturally contributing to this goal; It would have been more timely. Secondly, the readability of political actions of memory and those in favour of returnees is blurred. For all these reasons, I personally express a favourable opinion on these amendments. I would point out that the committee did not adopt Amendments Nos 694 and 638 and did not consider No 922.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u314	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u315	Many amendments on the same subject, I will try to make a stone several blows by explaining things clearly. In 2019, we had a total of 57 million euros in the operating budget of the INI, a public institution that is currently undergoing a restructuring linked to the decrease in the number of veterans: every year there are 600,000 to 700,000 veterans who are a national of the ONACVG. The purpose of this restructuring is to continue to serve them well by adapting to the number of nationals. ONACVG plans to reduce its operating expenditure by €2 million for 2020. We are bringing 45 million out of our budget and the additional 10 million will, on an exceptional basis, be taken from its own cash flow, which is far too large. I would say from this cash reduction that this is a "budgetary safety" operation. Regardless of this exceptional operation, the operating budget voted by the ONACVG Board of Directors amounts to €55 million for 2020. The restructuring of the Office has been voted on by its Board of Directors and by the establishment's trade union organisations, with enough agreement on the need for restructuring. The ONACVG will therefore not suffer a massive reduction in its subsidy. While this year's budget is in decline, in fact, with the mobilisation of its cash flow, the Office will have to save only €2 million in 2020, which is a good thing. My goal is to ensure the departmental permanence of the ONACVG, which will be maintained. The restructuring effort will focus on the central administration and we will preserve all departmental levels. Secondly, Amendments Nos 694 and 638 referred to State operators such as the Order of Liberation. The appropriations of the National Council of Communes "Companion of Liberation" have increased from 1.3 million in 2018 to 1.7 million in 2019 and are maintained to 1.7 million for 2020. This operator will therefore not experience any decrease in its credits. As for the National Institution of Invalids, it receives 12 million euros of operating appropriations, a sum identical to that of 2019, to which will be added this year 13.7 million investments to finance infrastructure works as part of the implementation of its new medical project. All our participations in these operators are therefore completely stable, especially for ONACVG: beyond a facial difference, the budget of ONAC is of course maintained. Maintaining a budget, maintaining ambitions does not mean that an institution that loses 600,000 or 700,000 beneficiaries every year cannot be restructured. These are simple equations that we have to solve to better serve people on the territory, and to be even more relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u316	Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u317	I come back to the National Institution of Invalids, referred to by Mr Pueyo and Mr Lachaud, because you could be misled by the delay in the proceedings. It is not due to a lack of funding: the Secretary of State has just reminded you of the amount of our contribution to the INI's post-traumatic monitoring centre project. On the other hand, the delays in ignition we know in the work may have misled you and explained your request for additional appropriations. They are due to administrative problems: the architect of the Bâtiments de France who had drawn up the file had foreseen that 8 to 10% of the project would fall into the domain of Bâtiments de France, and had determined the allotments in function. But his successor refused the file as it was, and sent him back to his gestation. Hence delays which are absolutely not due to a lack of funds, since, as the Secretary of State has said, we will receive well those that were planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u318	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u319	Thank you for your development, Madam Secretary of State. I would just like you to confirm what you have just said about the departmental offices of ONACVG. We do not dispute that the number of veterans is decreasing, which probably justifies the reduction of the wing, but the Agency is, in the departments, alongside the associations, the focal point of many other actions, each of which wishes for sustainability. In particular, I want to talk about the work of memory and the commemorative duty to which we are committed: ONACVG is an indispensable pillar of it. The sustainability of its departmental settlements is therefore absolutely fundamental for the elected representatives of the territories that we are. That is why I was glad to hear you say that it is not being called into question, neither for 2020 nor, I imagine, for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u321	Thank you, Mr. Viala, I think we're all happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u322	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-30-O1048.u323	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020: Continuation of the review of the appropriations of the "Veterans, Memory and Nation Link" mission; Review of appropriations for the "Public Finance and Human Resources Management" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
