ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and establishing a national subscription for this purpose (Nos. 1881, 1918 and 1885).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u2	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u3	On the evening of April 15, the country held its breath, and with it the whole world. When we saw the arrow collapsing, one thought crossed us all: the possibility that we were witnessing the total destruction of Notre-Dame de Paris. We were convinced that, because this cathedral was there before us, it would necessarily be there after us. If she had spent eight centuries up to us, she would still know, we thought, to cross the next. What kept us in front of the images of Our Lady inflamed, what reached us, saddened us, terrified us was to see this stunned certainty and ignore what would happen. It was to see this part of France consume itself without knowing whether or not the flames were going to engulf it. It was to see that part of us leave without us being able to hold her back. Without being able to do anything about it. So, very quickly, the French wanted to act, and our fear of fire was equalled only by the extraordinary mobilization that followed it. This mobilization was that of women and men who, sometimes at the risk of their lives, stopped the burning and saved the works. It was first that of the firefighters of Paris, assisted and strengthened by their colleagues from the other departments of Île-de-France, that of the police, but also that of the agents of the Ministry of Culture, the City of Paris and the diocese. I really want to thank them very sincerely for their courage, skill and commitment. If the vaults are still very fragile, the building is now saved, and we owe it to their professionalism, dedication and courage. This act of bravery has given way to the mobilization of experts, institutions and companies, whose pledges of donations and proposals for assistance in skills have multiplied. Above all, it is a popular mobilization. Hundreds of thousands of donations from individuals have come from all parts of France and from all over the world. Even today, they continue to reach us. It was therefore necessary to create a framework to welcome them, to accompany them, to encourage, to frame this spirit of generosity, to match this exceptional fervour with an exceptional device. This is the meaning of the draft law for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and establishing a national subscription for this purpose. Yes, we will rebuild Notre-Dame. The President of the Republic has set a target of five years. It is an ambitious, proactive time frame, which allows to motivate the troops and mobilize all the teams involved in the service of Notre-Dame. In this task ahead, however, we will not confuse speed with haste. We must indeed offer Our Lady a restoration to the height of her splendour and of what she symbolizes. On a number of points, there is an urgent need to intervene. On others, we must take the time to reflect. The present situation of Notre-Dame imposes on us these two temporalities, which this law manages to reconcile. So yes, we want to go fast. We were accused of going very fast – too fast. But it was the momentum of generosity that went very quickly, it was the gifts in favour of Notre-Dame that abounded very quickly: it was necessary to be able to respond just as quickly. That's what we did. It is now necessary to reaffirm the purpose of the dedicated national subscription, launched by the President of the Republic and under his high authority, and to lay down, by law, the main principles and rules applicable to him. Security guarantees must be provided to the hundreds of thousands of donors, whether French or foreign. I really want to thank them for their generosity. They will not be betrayed: their gifts will go to Notre-Dame, only and in full to Notre-Dame, to its conservation, to its restoration and to its maintenance, in the short, medium and long term. Some argue that we have already raised too much money, more than it takes to restore the cathedral. But while some donations have already come to us, others are still waiting to be realized. In addition, the total cost of the work has not yet been quantified, of course. For the moment, the work is only about the building's safety, whose vault remains, I want to say again, fragile. Allow me at this moment to thank the companies very sincerely for the dedication and responsiveness they have shown: as early as Monday evening they undertook with the departments of the Ministry of Culture a colossal and exceptional work in order to safeguard the essentials. Thank you very much to them and all their teams. It is only then that we will move on to the diagnostic phase, then to the restoration itself. In these circumstances, it is totally premature to say that we would have surpluses to deal with. In order to make this national subscription, in addition to the direct payments to the State, we can count, since 16 April, on the mobilisation of three foundations recognized as being of public utility, the Fondation de France, the Fondation du patrimoine and the Fondation Notre-Dame, as well as that of the Centre des monuments nationales, operator of the Ministry of Culture. I also want to thank them for that. I would like to recall that Notre-Dame de Paris is a historical monument belonging to the State: that is what justifies the State being, in fine, the recipient of the donations. I would also like to point out that the text of the law that we are discussing will obviously not undermine the principles of the laws of 1905 and 1907, that is, neither the principle of secularism, nor the division of prerogatives and responsibilities between the State, the owner of the cathedral, and the Catholic Church, which is its affector. All donations will be made through the national subscription, with the exception of those specifically intended to finance the restoration of religious or artistic property belonging to the diocese, or, more generally, the needs relating to the exercise of worship. It is not cultural property, it is cultural property. Agreements may be concluded between the State and each of the three recognized foundations of public utility, as well as with some donors. The precise arrangements for the agreement remain to be determined: amendments have been tabled, which should make it possible to move the text forward on this point. I am thinking in particular of the amendment which provides that the conventions will lay down the modalities for the payment of funds by foundations recognized as being of public benefit or by donors. I am in favour of its adoption and welcome the La République on the move, behind Cathy Racon-Bouzon and Raphaël Gérard, as well as the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, behind Sophie Mette, who have worked extensively on the subject. In addition, for the same purpose of transparency as regards the use of the funds collected, a monitoring committee will be set up. It will bring together the First President of the Court of Auditors and the chairmen of the committees responsible for finance and culture of the Senate and the National Assembly. This control shall be carried out in conjunction with and without prejudice to that exercised by the Court of Auditors. Local and regional authorities and their groups will also be able to contribute to the financing of the work beyond their territorial jurisdiction. Article 4 removes any uncertainty arising from the usual rules of jurisdiction or the local interest requirement. The Minister of Action and Public Accounts, Gérald Darmanin, will have the opportunity to say again: community expenditures in favour of Notre-Dame will be considered capital expenditures. They will therefore not be taken into account for the annual operating expenditure ceiling of 1.2%. As far as individuals are concerned, the Act introduces a specific tax system to accompany their donations. I would like to commend the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, and the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, Gérald Darmanin, for the work we have done in close cooperation. With a limit of EUR 1000, the draft law increases the rate of income tax reduction from 66 per cent to 75 per cent in respect of donations and payments made by individuals to the Treasury, the National Monuments Centre and the three foundations recognized as being of public utility. I would like to point out that this device concerns individuals only. It was designed to cover the donations of the largest number of French. It is precisely limited: in time, with a tax advantage that concerns donations made between 16 April and 31 December 2019, and in terms of amounts, I said, with a donation ceiling eligible for the tax reduction set at 1000 euros. These limits do not prevent us from giving in excess of that date or, of course, above that ceiling. In this case, however, the tax advantage will be that of ordinary law. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Finance, who have made it possible to improve the text by introducing, by virtue of Rule 5a, a requirement of transparency with regard to the monitoring of the subscription and the application of the related tax arrangements. The Government will report to Parliament on this in a report that will examine the share and amount of donations made under the national subscription that resulted in a tax reduction. It's a good thing, and we might even consider going further. Thank you to the rapporteur for her opinion Marie-Ange Magne, to the rapporteur-general Joël Giraud, to Bénédicte Peyrol and of course to Gilles Carrez for their work. More generally, thank you to all the members of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Cultural Affairs, and to the rapporteur Anne Brugnera, who has done a remarkable job. I know the work of pedagogy, clarification and consultation of all the actors it has carried out, and I know its commitment to culture. Thanks to all of you, the work in committee has been fruitful. On all these subjects, I said, we will go quickly, but we will not rush: the restoration will not be done in haste, because it must be up to the level, I said and I repeat, of the splendor of Notre-Dame de Paris. We will be able to take into account the opinions of heritage professionals, curators, architects, historians, academics and all those involved in the maintenance, conservation and restoration of our monuments. We'll be able to listen to them, and we'll be able to trust them. Time must be given to reflection, to allow us to make all the necessary choices, and to make them in due course. I want to anticipate them, as long as possible, in the law, to avoid having to come back to you tomorrow: that is the meaning of clauses 8 and 9 of the bill. We are in the process of thinking about the optimal organisation to carry out this project in the light of the objectives set. The choice of organization has not yet been made. We are giving ourselves the opportunity to create a new public institution for this purpose. In any event, I would like to say before you three key points. First, the master of the project will be ensured, in accordance with the rules of art, by the chief architects of the historical monuments. The Government will defend an amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u4	That we were denied in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u5	... which makes it possible to clarify the bill on this point. Secondly, as is the case with a project of this magnitude, the National Commission for Heritage and Architecture will be consulted regularly on the progress of the works and the choices of restoration. Thirdly, regardless of the choice of organization that will be chosen, it will have to allow to take into account the legitimate interests of the main stakeholders interested in the restoration, notably the City of Paris and the Diocese. Ladies and gentlemen, if no historic monument restoration operation had yet given rise to such a legislative adaptation, it is because we are facing a situation completely new in our history. The project is indeed exceptional, ambitious, and unique. In order to do so at best, we want to give ourselves the opportunity to relax certain provisions, mainly procedural ones – hence Article 9 of the authorisation. But of course the derogations from the legislation in force will be strictly proportionate to the needs of the yard. There is no question of using the restoration of Notre-Dame to trample on French and European law on heritage, the environment or urban planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u6	That's what this text does!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u7	This has, of course, never been the intention of the Government. We will have the opportunity to come back to this during our debate. I want to say it and say it again: as Minister of Culture, I will tirelessly be the guarantor of the protection of heritage and will be committed to mobilizing all the ministers concerned. The interdepartmental work in the coming weeks will allow us to jointly define the derogations and adjustments to be made. There are specific rules, formalized in the Heritage Code, that apply to the restoration of built heritage and furniture. They also correspond to France's excellence in this field, which is recognized worldwide. It goes without saying that these rules will apply. I will be the guarantor – I am committed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u8	In this case, why provide for derogations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] At every moment, we will impose the preservation of the historical, artistic and architectural interest of the monument. We will have the opportunity to consider the amendment which seeks to clarify the law on this point, with the rest of the amendments, in a few moments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u10	Mrs Anne Brugnera, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u11	Colleagues, today we are considering the bill for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. Built more than eight centuries ago, Notre-Dame de Paris was first a religious centre and a place of Catholic worship. It is also a masterpiece of Gothic art, a major architectural heritage of France and Europe. High place in our history, the cathedral has welcomed many events of national significance, which link it inextricably to our history and to the French. Its heritage value was recognized by a classification of historical monuments in 1862 and by UNESCO World Heritage Registration in 1991. If we look at this text today, it is that a terrible fire struck Notre-Dame de Paris on Monday 15 April at the end of the day. Many of us have witnessed helpless, on-site, remote, or in front of television and news channels continuously, the violent fire that ravaged a structure, a roof, an arrow. We were also many, I think, to sleep that night with this lunatic question in mind: "Will it be there again tomorrow morning? » For seven hours, 500 firefighters fought the fire; They were able to turn it off at two o'clock in the morning. Their action helped to safeguard the structure of the building and to avoid the collapse of the bumblebee, which could have had catastrophic consequences. Nevertheless, the fire completely destroyed the almost millennium frame, as well as the roof. As the arrow collapsed, it pierced three gaping openings in the vault. The treasure of the cathedral, with many relics and other ornaments and which is among the richest in France, as well as most of the Mays and major sculptures were, fortunately, quickly sheltered. There has been a deep grief over our country. The French, of all convictions, felt this emotion. Seeing Notre-Dame de Paris approaching the disappearance, everyone suddenly became aware of the place it occupies in our collective imagination. It is a masterpiece of Gothic art, an architectural treasure and also a symbol of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u12	And a place of worship!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u13	It is surprising to see how far this commitment has crossed our borders. I read in a press article published after the fire this reflection which I find quite right: "In our familiar imagier, it was in very good place, stable and definitive". Here I want to thank the firefighters for their remarkable commitment, as well as the diocese, the prefecture and the city hall of Paris, the architects, the agents of the Ministry of Culture and the construction companies. Their reactivity and dedication played a crucial role in the rescue of the cathedral. I extend a special thanks to the chief architect, whose thorough knowledge of the building allowed the firefighters to design the firefighting strategy. That's why the damage was intelligently limited. Today it is too early to accurately measure the extent of the damage caused by the fire and the amount of water spilled to extinguish the flames. No one can say for the time being with certainty about the consequences that the disaster will have on the structure of the building, while the vault has been pierced. That is why our first concern is to keep the cathedral, to ensure that it does not get further damaged, to protect it from the rain and the wind and to monitor it. Many sensors have been installed to verify its stability. An inventory of structural disorders and emergency work is under way. Four chief architects of historical monuments are at work to oversee these interventions. Only then can a diagnosis be initiated. Once this diagnosis is done – and it will take time, because it needs to be done carefully – it will be possible to consider the necessary work. It will not only be a matter of rebuilding a structure, a roof, an arrow, restoring the damaged nave and furniture. It will also be a matter of restoring a cathedral to be even more beautiful, in the continuity of the ambition that had led to the work in progress before the fire. In order to carry out this conservation-restoration project, the President of the Republic has set a period of five years. During my hearings, I interviewed my interlocutors about this. I was told that five years is possible with willingness and good organization, and with a device adapted to an out-of-standard construction site. This is the purpose of this bill. The hearings that I conducted convinced me of the need to reach a speedy adoption of this text in order to frame and secure the collection of donations and to carry out the restoration under the best conditions. This bill meets three essential objectives. First of all, it is a question of accompanying the spirit of generosity born from the fire, by instituting, in Article 1, a national subscription and by proposing, in Article 5, an exceptional tax exemption for donations of less than 1000 euros. The text will make it possible to conduct the subscription in an organised and secure framework, using the reference actors in the fundraising and philanthropy of the three foundations concerned. The funds collected will be raised through agreements with the foundations; The majority has tabled amendments to this effect. The second objective is to ensure transparency both in the collection of donations and in the use of funds collected. To this end, a Monitoring Committee shall be established by Article 7. The State or public institution which is intended to be established shall report to this committee, which shall be composed of the First President of the Court of Auditors and the chairpersons of the committees responsible for finance and culture of the National Assembly and the Senate. The purpose of this provision is to ensure greater transparency in the use of funds received. Finally, the conservation and restoration site of Notre-Dame de Paris must be carried out in the best possible conditions. For this purpose, section 8 provides for the establishment of a dedicated public institution and section 9 of the legislative amendments by order. I welcome the idea of establishing a public institution specifically responsible for carrying out the work, given the exceptional nature of the construction site and the need to involve all the actors involved. The aim of this institution is to mobilize and closely involve the various competent services and personnel. It is also envisaged that a scientific council will be set up with this institution in order to give it the necessary "knowing" support. Amendments will be tabled to this effect. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] With regard to Article 9, I know that it has raised a lot of questions. I understood during my hearings that the exceptional nature of this project, due to its size and its historic and historic importance, might make it necessary to adapt, without calling into question the need to carry out an exemplary restoration, respecting the cathedral, its history, the site and the missions of each actor. It is not a question of derogating from the principles of heritage protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u14	That is what is written in Article 9!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u15	You should read it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u16	"Derogation": it is written in all letters!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u17	Please listen to the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u18	These, ladies and gentlemen, are the provisions that are before you today. I would like to make two additional remarks. With regard to donations, I call for both caution and respect. To caution, because today there are more promises than gifts. Individuals gave a lot, from 100 to 140 euros on average. Major donors and local and regional authorities have made pledges of donations, which will be gradually honoured. Whether they are small or large donors, let us respect their actions. The gift responds to an emotion for a cause or for a symbol. It is a personal gesture, a gesture of generosity that must not be discouraged. It is also the expression of a will that must be respected. With regard to the conservation-restoration project, we should act quickly, in order to protect the cathedral and allow a restoration in good conditions. However, it is previously necessary to clean and then diagnose. We will then know what work is needed and how to organize it. We will also know what skills we will need, as skilled craftsmen, curators-restaurateurs, stone tailors, master glassmakers... We have these special skills in our country. However, we may be understaffed because, alas, in France, these trades suffer from an image deficit; They are not sufficiently valued when they are valuable know-how of which our society can be proud. It is for this reason that the funds collected will also be able to finance training and allow the Notre-Dame yard to have all the necessary professionals and experts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u19	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u20	I have no doubt that this project will give rise to vocations. I know that he will give to see the best of our country and that he will allow Notre-Dame to regain its splendor. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I hope that our debates will allow this text to be refined and enriched without distorting it. Indeed, I am convinced that it sets out relevant directions towards the objective that unites us all, namely, the preservation, for future generations, of a building that is both a masterpiece of sacred art, a national monument and an eminent witness to our civilization offered to the world. I hope that we can be united, in this beautiful objective, around a text that organizes national solidarity for the benefit of our heritage, the professions of excellence in architecture, conservation and restoration, art and crafts, our culture and our history. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, many admirers of the cathedral, parishioners, local residents, Parisians, art and history lovers, or simply fellow citizens attached to our heritage hope to find this beautiful cathedral as soon as possible. Let's not disappoint them. Let us all work together to make this bill a beautiful, operational and respectful piece of legislation for both stones and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u21	Mrs Marie-Ange Magne, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u22	The fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris on 15 April marked all minds, in Paris, throughout the country and abroad. It bears witness to the special place occupied by the cathedral in our historical, religious and literary heritage, as well as in the collective imagination. The bill before us today is designed to respond to an exceptional situation and to accompany, beyond emotion, the momentum of spontaneous and massive solidarity that began the night of the fire. Given the unprecedented scale and amounts of pledges made or announced from April 15th to the evening, it was necessary to establish a national subscription. That is the purpose of the bill we are considering today. This text has been referred for substantive consideration to the Committee on Cultural Affairs, which has delegated to the Committee on Finance, by mutual agreement between the two presidents, the substantive examination of Articles 4 and 5. I would like to welcome the very unusual use of this procedure, which has enabled us to work in good intelligence and with due respect for the powers of each of our two committees, in a time-consuming manner. In general, these two articles are evidence of the Government's willingness to allow all to participate in national subscriptions, individual as local authorities, each according to its own means. Article 4 thus establishes a legal framework for the donations and payments that territorial authorities and their groups would like to make for the conservation and restoration of the cathedral, regardless of any local public interest. In addition, in order to ensure that these grants do not adversely affect the objectives and terms of the contracts concluded between the territorial authorities and the State representative in their territories, in the context of controlling their operating expenses, the Government provides that all payments made under the national subscription will, on an exceptional basis, be considered as capital grants, thus included in the investment section of the local budgets. This basic clarification is not expressly included in the legal provisions of article 4. We have discussed at length in the Finance Committee the advisability of including in the law what is very clearly stated in the summary of the article. In the end, we did not choose this option, because it appeared to us that the accounting treatment of certain expenditure by local and regional authorities was strictly within the regulatory sphere. Nevertheless, I believe that this debate, which is essential for communities, is not yet completely closed. I therefore call on the Government to confirm that this item will be clearly specified in the budgetary and accounting instructions and to clarify the deadlines and modalities for the implementation of this measure. On behalf of all the Members who have tabled amendments on this subject, I wanted to stress this point. At the same time, the bill is intended to accompany the generosity of our fellow citizens, who have shown their solidarity and commitment to this heritage building. Article 5 is thus the heart and symbol of the State's commitment alongside individual donors. It is clear that the symbolic and historical importance of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and the magnitude of the restoration expenses caused by the violent fire require going beyond the ordinary tax incentive scheme. The aim is to put in place a simple, exceptional and temporary mechanism on which it was communicated at an early stage. Article 5 thus introduces an exceptional and time-limited increase in the rate of the income tax reduction for donations made by individuals, as well as a specific ceiling of EUR 1000 per tax home. As a result, donations made between April 16 and December 31, 2019 for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame will qualify for a tax reduction equal to 75% of the amounts paid, up to a limit of 1000 euros. Beyond this ceiling, donations will be eligible for the tax reduction provided for in Article 200 of the General Tax Code at the common duty rate of 66%. On Article 5, in committee, we kept to the balances drawn by the Prime Minister in his public announcement shortly after the fire of the cathedral. We have therefore not changed the rate of the tax reduction or the ceiling of EUR 1000. Finally, I want to say a word about Article 5 bis. This article, introduced in committee by an amendment by Gilles Carrez, the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Finance, provides for a report to be submitted to Parliament, which will allow us to have information on the monitoring of donations made in connection with the subscription and on the amount of the associated tax expenditure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the debate in committee, Mrs Rabault rightly argued that the need for transparency should also apply to payments by local authorities in the context of national subscriptions. We therefore agreed to work on a joint drafting for the meeting in order to enrich the request for a report on this item, which we will submit to you earlier in a comprehensive drafting amendment to Article 5a.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u23	The president of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u24	We will remember the time that our life will last for this evening of April 15, 2019, where we were all powerless observers in front of Notre Dame Cathedral on fire, powerless in the face of the devastation of one of the wonders of the world, but also, immediately, determined, like our remarkable soldiers of fire. This fire upset France and that night the world was watching it. The many messages of compassion and sympathy, as well as all the gifts that have begun to flow, bear witness to the importance of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris to all of us on the planet. Such momentum obliges us. Governments had to live up to the challenge, and there was a need to organize and facilitate this tremendous national and international mobilization. That is the case with this bill, which was passed in committee last week and is before us today. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the text, Anne Brugnera, and the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, Marie-Ange Magne, who, in exceptional circumstances, carried out excellent work to deepen the text. And since you have praised all the staff who have helped to safeguard the building, Minister, it is also an opportunity for me to greet the staff of the National Assembly, who have made it possible to organize our work in record time. Let them be deeply and sincerely thanked for this. As we know, the Notre Dame building, left to humanity by its builders, has, according to everyone, a historical, heritage, cultural or religious importance. It also welcomed close to 13 million visitors a year, thus contributing greatly to the tourist influence of our country. These were reasons for which there was no doubt as to the need to restore and preserve the building as soon as possible. I will not go back to the whole text, but want to answer some questions that emerged after it was tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u25	And worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u26	On the issue of urgency, it was necessary to frame and organize the national subscription, in order to reassure the French as to the proper use of the gifts they spontaneously sent for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. I would like to thank the three foundations that have been fully engaged with the State and the National Monuments Centre for the successful conduct of this fund-raising, which, as you said, Minister, has not been completed, because many of these donations remain, to date, promises: they will therefore have to be realized in order to carry out the project. With regard to the specific tax arrangements that allow us to encourage donations and to accompany them, citizens, businesses, foundations and local and regional authorities will be able to participate, each in its own way and according to its will, in the financial effort to rebuild Notre-Dame. This was a strong demand, and the bill accompanies this mobilization with an exceptional collection mechanism, which will help to meet the challenge of restoring the cathedral in the long term. We have heard questions about donations from corporate patronage. Beyond traditional government and community funding, I would like to point out here that sponsorship is crucial for the restoration of many of our heritage buildings. Thus, the restorations of the Palace of Versailles or the Grand Palais are made possible by the patronage of major donors: let them be praised and thanked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u27	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u28	I fully agree, of course, with the constant concern for the proper use of funds, transparency and ethics expressed in our debates. Earlier, we will also be studying the rapporteur's amendments to increase the transparency of these donations, and that is a very good thing. With regard to the possibility for the Government to legislate by order, I would like to reassure my colleagues here, and beyond the French, who are asking questions, in particular about the provisions of article 9. If the exceptional work we are talking about can require some latitude, Parliament will fully assume its role of evaluation and control in order to take up these issues throughout the process of rebuilding Notre-Dame, a process which, let us recall, is in the hands of heritage enthusiasts, enthusiasts of the cathedral. This, for our discussion, leads to the assumption of the confidence we must have in our services, in our officials engaged in this work. Moreover, as chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, I can assure you that the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education will take its full part in this follow-up. First, a transparency committee will be set up, in which I will sit alongside my counterpart in the Finance Committee, Eric Woerth, and our counterparts in the Senate's Finance and Cultural Affairs Committees, under the chairmanship of the First President of the Court of Auditors. This body will carry out a monitoring mission until the work in the cathedral is completed. This is essential to ensure transparency and the proper use of funds. In addition, the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education will continue to mobilise regularly in the coming months, and I will propose a timetable for this work at the committee office next Tuesday. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to say about this text. In conclusion, Mr Minister, I reiterate the invitation launched by the Mayor of Strasbourg, Roland Ries, whom I greet, to come to this city to discover this unique management model in France, which is that of the Fondation de l'Ouvre Notre-Dame de Strasbourg. This, perhaps, will suggest us long-term perspectives regarding the use of funds dedicated to the maintenance of Notre-Dame, beyond conservation and restoration, which, of course, constitute the first emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] I am, of course, impatient, ladies and gentlemen, to start the debate on all the amendments that you have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u29	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u30	I will not go back to the unanimity that prevailed throughout the country after the tragedy of the fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris: everyone has recalled it, for weeks now. All the French were touched in their hearts and in their souls, starting of course with the Catholics, since this building is not only a place of culture, in the broad sense of the term: it is first a cathedral, a place of worship, a religious place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u31	It's good to call him back.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u32	But this concerns a much wider audience!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u33	But, far beyond Catholics, it was the entire French population and almost the entire world that had been affected by this tragedy. I would also like to pay tribute, as my colleagues have done, to the extraordinary work of the police, the fire and the police, and all those who have secured our cathedral before the restoration work. The Finance Committee was referred to the Committee in a substantive delegation for Rules 4 and 5. These two articles say quite simple things, within a text that is intended to organize the collection of donations and to define the rules of operation of the State for the work. This text, of course necessary, was quickly written and discussed in our respective committees, before arriving today in the sitting. That's a good thing, too. Rules 4 and 5 of the Finance Committee have two objectives. The first is to allow local authorities to go beyond their territorial competence; the second, to increase the challenge rate of donations. On these two aspects, of which I do not, moreover, make subjects of controversy or opposition, I have some uncertainties. I am not sure, first of all, that local authorities should be allowed to go beyond their geographical scope, even on a subject of this importance. They too have an important heritage, on which much work is needed to avoid other tragedies. The question of the appropriateness of Article 4 therefore arises. However, the Government had proposed it and the committees had voted on it: of which action had been taken. The second point is the increase in the level of challenge of individual donations. Our legislation is already very generous. If it were not, the question would obviously arise, but the challenge rate is already almost two-thirds of the donation for individuals, and 60% for businesses. I am not sure that an additional boost was needed to raise the rate to 75% within the first 1000 euros. It seems to me unnecessary, and costly for public finances. And I'm not sure that this will help raise more donations. I'm sure the opposite is true: the French didn't give because of a tax advantage, but because they wanted it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u34	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u35	The generosity of the state, moreover, already translates into a defiance rate of 66 per cent, a fairly symbolic figure since it represents two thirds of the sums concerned. We are talking, as I know, about a building that belongs to the state, for which the task would be very costly if it were to be carried out alone; But most of the pledges were made prior to the announcement of an increase in the rate of the incentive scheme. The Government, let us note, has kept to this mechanism, without going any further: of which action, again, but I am not sure that it was so necessary. Three questions remain, which I do not think the text answers. The first concerns the use of donations. Many people have given for the restoration, in other words the repair of the damage suffered by the cathedral, not for its maintenance current in the years to come. The minister stated earlier that these donations would be used for the maintenance of the cathedral for years. I do not believe that the French have given to maintain it ad vitam aeternam: it is of course the budget of the State to ensure the conditions for this interview. We should therefore be much more specific in this regard; I am also concerned about the term "conservation", which seems to me to be a way for the state to discard the budget allocated to the cathedral, if necessary to transfer it elsewhere. I do not believe, I repeat, that the motives of the donors were the maintenance of the gardens and of the whole cathedral. It is not a whole: we cannot imagine that the latter will live for years thanks to donations. The State must continue to play its role. There is a risk of slipping. The second point is the use of any surplus. As you said, minister, we cannot prejudge the level of donations, but if there is surplus, how will it be used? Again, the will of donors, which is often very specific, must be fully respected, from the most modest to the most generous donations. Thirdly, transparency is obviously needed. The amendment I tabled with Joël Giraud and Gilles Carrez shows that much more can be done in this area. This proposal, moreover, is part of a more general mission that we are carrying out on patronage, particularly as a company. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] In short, this great momentum of unanimity must continue with respect for what the French have given. And the best way to ensure that, I think, is to ensure full transparency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u36	I have received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u37	« Who did not see the day rise on the Seine "Ignore what it is that this tearing « When taken on the fact the night that is defiant "Defends himself with obscene red eyes "And Our Lady comes out of the waters like a magnet. » These words are those of Louis Aragon. They express the magic, the strength of a building that has dazzled us and ignited itself. On April 15, the arrow of Notre-Dame de Paris fell a bit of our vanity, which could make us believe that it would be immutable. The link between the earth and the sky for 160 years was broken abruptly, and it was an ideal that was consumed at the same time as the stones. This arrow bore the seal of audacity at the same time as that of devotion. By freeing herself from gravity, she bore the sign of a human genius that architecture has long, perhaps still, sought to immortalize in the rock. No doubt, as architect and urban planner Catherine Tricot suggested, Gothic art, of which Notre-Dame is emblematic, is a milestone between the Greeks and the Enlightenment. It is the first rationalist architecture that has shaped a particularly rich French tradition and which continues to this day, perhaps you have not thought about it, colleagues, in the architecture of Beaubourg, for example, with this apparent structure and postponed to the outside of the building. Our Lady of Paris rises by embodying human emancipation, which does not flourish in one way but finds multiple paths to come. Eternal metaphor, spun over the centuries, from a genius extirpating himself from his condition, it is this link of freedom on which we are dependent. By falling apart a little less than a month ago, the breath of Notre-Dame de Paris opened our eyes to the fragility of our heritage. The cathedral became in its way an alert launcher, making us experience a reality that we hid from ourselves. If it is true that we are "dwarfs on giant shoulders," that evening we had a glimpse of the emptiness. And that is little to say that it gave us vertigo – indeed not only in France. Nothing is eternal, and history is a book that never closes. We would have had to burn hundreds of tons of wood and lead to remind us of this. Colleagues, I believe, however, that Notre-Dame de Paris has rarely been as alive as it is today. This fire was like a wound that suddenly reminds the body of the existence of a limb. What the monument lost in the embers, it regained in our hearts to all. On the rubble, we've had a great time of exchange, and I think the name Viollet-le-Duc has never been mentioned as much as it is today, except perhaps in its time. As the cathedral's arrow collapsed, it reborn everywhere, in the streets, bars, houses and schools of our country. This collective emotion was also to live together the happiness of sharing a "common". This cathedral, of course, belongs to no one. In fact, it belongs to everyone. And it's been seen! The discussions were numerous, lively, controversial or serene. What a happy surprise, ladies and gentlemen, to see our country suddenly gripped with this intellectual, cultural and artistic vitality! I would even say that this is good news for whom, like me, so often complains about the weakness of the cultural debate. I would therefore like, in the preamble, to pay tribute to all those, specialists, amateurs, neophytes, who have nourished this moment of affection and exchange. To all those who have contributed, through their passion and energy, to make live in our minds the flame, which we wish eternal, this one, of Notre-Dame de Paris. The fall, however, was a little rough. Five years. The presidential verb is firm, it fell like a cutlet. The President of the Republic, who takes up the occasion again with his self-proclaimed role as master of clocks, gives in fact five years to rebuild the monument. Five years for a building that has more than eight hundred. You can imagine saying to his advisors, "We're not going to wait 107 years! – precisely the number of years it took to erect the cathedral: this is the origin of the consecrated expression. But no: five years. While everything, in this collapse, invited us to humility and respect for know-how, to accept the slowness that is the mother of the demand, in the time of the builders and workers, to take up the expression of the time, the presidential speech seemed to be whimsical. It would have been necessary to extend the time of the exchange, in a democratic and collegial manner, so that the debates on this reconstruction infused into every fold of society. But Emmanuel Macron offers us five years, a general to supervise the works, and an exceptional regime to supervise them. The stones were barely cooled that already the mechanics of the macronian power started with authority, to demand that the cathedral be put back up for the Olympic Games of 2024. An old lady has just fallen and, even before making a diagnosis about her condition, she is prescribed a prescription, anxiolytics, a diet, and is asked to prepare a marathon. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the Government forgets that to govern is to foresee. While the still smoking stigmas of Notre-Dame de Paris were a vibrant plea for the protection of our heritage, for a reflection inscribed in the long time, the fire suddenly became an additional milestone in the presidential communication. To reflect is to bend twice, the writer Alain Damasio tells us. Now, with Emmanuel Macron, we visibly jumped steps. And the text before us further accelerates the process. I am therefore not surprised that the answer is a fundraising and an exceptional law. To save Notre-Dame, it is charity on one side, derogation from the other. Then come back to me these words of Victor Hugo, quoted abundantly in recent weeks, rightly, but which we would do well to listen to: "History has almost always been written so far from the miserable point of view of the fact; It is time to write it from the point of view of principle. » The principle of the emergency law, contained in article 9, confirms the domination of the fact over the principle. It also covers with a veil of modesty the procession of damaged monuments that are found in the path of Notre-Dame de Paris. This is neither the first nor the last time, unfortunately, that a building is threatened with collapse, with disaster, not to mention those thousands of heritage buildings threatened by the decline in appropriations. Any principle of exception is a prank in the social contract – and I see that in Macronie, unfortunately, it is often the exception regime that is adopted. With this bill, the Government, in essence, ventures into a Gribouille policy. By proposing a derogation from the laws governing restoration, archaeology, security, urban planning, respect for the environment and public procurement, it weakens what has enabled us to save what remains of Notre-Dame de Paris. It creates a dangerous precedent and tackles the common foundation of legislation based on collegiality, rigour and the sense of public service. A text that introduces derogations is proposed to us even though the procedures exist to carry out this restructuring, this re-foundation of Notre-Dame. These procedures are the result of accumulated knowledge and experience that the fire invites us to value more than ever. To be free from it is to deprive oneself of an expertise indispensable to the duty of excellence which is incumbent upon us. I understand the idea, after all. It's true that the ideas sounded during the fire. Some of them may have invited us to take a few freedoms with our rules: Donald Trump, for example, proposed to deploy Canadairs. The shields raised in front of this inept proposal are the same ones that stand in front of the text that we are going to examine – which must really make us think. The injunction to immediacy threatens our entire heritage, and this bill is just putting a bandage on a wound while the whole body is covered with similar ones. So how can we not understand heritage professionals, elected representatives and associations who oppose this choice? The current regulations are sharp and give the state, in this case the Ministry of Culture, the latitude necessary for the renovation of the building. While this project must be exemplary, show the concerns of our time and mark with our mark a monument that has not ceased to live, the Government's haste endangers all this. Specialists all agree that a five-year restoration poses a significant risk to the site: adding professionals to the site is tantamount to increasing disaster hazards. On the other hand, it also means depriving many construction sites of companions and oeuvres – I keep the word – who will in fact be assigned to that of the cathedral. While the decline in appropriations has greatly reduced the number of companies specializing in heritage, this disaffection would be a blow to many rehabilitation works already under way. As I read in La Croix, a newspaper that is not suspected of slowing down restoration times, section 9 of the bill provides for the possibility of freeing itself from certain transport and waste guarantees. Elected representatives and NGOs – non-governmental organizations – are concerned, and we understand them, especially as the site contains lead. Let us therefore be vigilant, ladies and gentlemen, so that these breaches of ordinary law are not committed. The Prime Minister said he wanted to give Notre-Dame a new arrow "adapted to the techniques and challenges of our time." How could we better embody these techniques and challenges of our time than by respecting rules shaped by centuries of practice? Except to consider that the mediocrity and the primacy of the economy over the heritage are "issues of our time" – but perhaps we do not live in the same... Let's go to the donations. In ten years, the budget for architectural heritage and monuments has decreased by 25 per cent. Therefore, the voluntarism displayed by the Government during the fire at Notre-Dame de Paris must not obscure the heavy tendency, for years, which deprives our monuments of the financing necessary for their maintenance. We wouldn't want the burning tree to cover the sound of the dying forest. The disengagement of the State is a threat to our monuments throughout our country. The text we are looking at today does not seek to extinguish it. On the contrary, it endorses the political resignation of a state that finds itself negotiating by trading its resources against the generosity of some. After launching a heritage lottery, after asking for money from US donors to complete the renovation of the cathedral, we are today discussing a text that wants to rely on an incentive. It should be recalled that by encouraging the French to give for the renovation of Notre-Dame de Paris, the Government deprives many associations and NGOs of the resources necessary for their viability. I recall that donations decreased by €200 million in 2018 compared to 2017. In passing, I would point out that the reforms, or rather the counter-reforms of the Government, I am thinking of the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth and the increase in the widespread social contribution, are not to blame for this decline. With this bill, we are therefore helping to threaten the whole of an already severely weakened voluntary sector. If we wish the reconstruction of the cathedral to be the result of national solidarity, it must be done through tax, precisely distributed and distributed. As far as Notre-Dame is concerned, it seems to me to be doubly necessary. In addition to the argument I have just made, tax financing would devote the monument to the common good, in which we would all be involved. Is it not ultimately the purpose of the tax to identify what belongs to our "commons"? When large companies or large fortunes invest millions of euros in these donations, the balance breaks between citizens. When Notre-Dame falls, it is our tax that must raise it. The race to the millions that we have been able to attend has caused weariness and anger on the part of those who see fortune naked for the stones, after having hidden so much for human life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u38	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u39	Yes, the efforts made for this renovation – 800 million euros promised in two days! – showed the power of shock and attachment to Notre-Dame. What makes the cathedral great is its collective dimension and the symbol it represents for all, as I have already mentioned. That is why everyone must be able to feel an actor in this reconstruction. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] Without wishing to compete with solidarity, we must, Minister, hear the criticisms of a "selective generosity" sometimes draped in indecency. As poverty and insecurity increase to a frightful extent and as so many French people exhaust themselves to make the Government hear social and environmental demands that it ignores, we see hundreds of millions of euros pouring in with speed, to be honest, rarely observed. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] When donations go hand in hand with attempts to move the challenge to 90%, as you propose, understand that it can surprise, displeasure and even disgust. I would like to point out that many of the patrons involved have been guilty of tax evasion. For example, the Kering group, owned by François Pinault's family, has escaped €2.5 billion in taxes since 2002. Do you realize? But I see, ladies and gentlemen, that you have little interest in billions of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u40	We were wondering what you just said about the 90% defiscalization!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u41	Continue with your remarks, Madam Member of Parliament. The minister will answer you later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u42	I was only trying to wake up the House, but I see that it is following! It is true that many of us in this House do not accept tax evasion and believe that there is real indecency in all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u43	We've never done so much against tax evasion! It is our majority that acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u44	In view of the 2.5 billion euros of tax left in smoke that I have just mentioned, the donation by the Pinault family of 100 million must therefore suddenly be relativized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u45	Are we talking about Notre-Dame, or anything else?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u46	From there to say, with Paul Lafargue, that philanthropy is "fly big and return in small", there is only one step.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u47	The kings of polemics...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u48	The question also arises of the future of donations. We have exceeded one billion euros in donations, while specialists seem to agree that the repair of the building should cost 700 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u49	I didn't give that number.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u50	You said we didn't know...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u51	...but you, you know!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u52	I don't know any more. I listen to expert assessments, which give this order of magnitude. We are therefore entitled to ask ourselves where the amounts that will not be used will be allocated. They could be used to restore certain rooms of the cathedral that take dust from the Louvre reserves. They could also be used to set up an exhibition of Notre-Dame's works, the time that restoration takes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u53	We would also find uses in Calvados!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u54	They could finally be used for other buildings that have been collapsing and waiting for a few subsidies for ages to stay up – we have discovered many in the media since April 15. But, with a little ambition, we could also allocate these sums to the reconstruction of the arrow of the basilica of Saint-Denis, cradle of Gothic art, destroyed in the 19th century. Its funding is now based on a system of paid visits and patronage. It seems to me that we could usefully put to the pot in its favour – the cost of reconstruction in this case amounts to 28 million euros, we know it precisely – and that we could also use the time of renovation of Notre-Dame to value this majestic and magnificent basilica of Saint-Denis. The Prime Minister said he did not want to betray donors by allocating money to something other than the restoration of the cathedral. But aren't we betraying our heritage by leaving gaping cracks waiting only to open up more? Will we, in order to honour the presidential promise, seek to beautify Notre-Dame by covering it with gold? These debates, ladies and gentlemen, are necessary to meet the aspirations of our fellow citizens. In order not to kill in the egg the democratic and cultural breath that has begun, we must make live, everywhere and for all, these issues that can reconcile our country with its heritage, with culture and with democracy. It therefore takes time and a method to create, far from the ordinances promoted by this bill, a democratic process worthy of our time. I would like to conclude by recalling one point which I have already mentioned very quickly, like Eric Woerth, but which must be placed at the centre of our concerns: this is the spirit in which the reconstruction of Notre-Dame de Paris must be carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u55	Catering!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u56	Restoration, reconstruction... Large semantic debate, which has its interest, you are right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u57	It's not just semantic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u58	It's a substantive debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u59	Indeed, this is not just a semantic debate, but a substantive debate. I'm coming, and you'll understand why I used that term. Previously, I would like to have a thought for the sixty-seven people who worked in the cathedral, and who, for the most part, will be unemployed from 15 May next. It seems to me necessary that these women and men who have made the monument live should be able to benefit from new jobs, whether in the maintenance and restoration works or in interface with the various publics. Ladies and gentlemen, the work to come must be built with the requirement of honesty and the honesty of the requirement. We were able to see it, the cathedral is an immense symbol of emancipation. From a technical, symbolic and historical point of view, it is a murmur of freedom that must continue in the years to come. The cathedral will not be identical to what it was – we should already know what it was, for it has not always been the same. It will not be, it cannot be identical, therefore, to what it has been. I deeply believe that the drama cannot be masked or denied: the fire is now part of the history of Notre-Dame de Paris. Its reconstruction will be a mixture of continuity and technical and architectural contributions that are the responsibility of our time and our time. Victor Hugo wrote: "Time is an architect and the people is the mason. So what does our time teach us, ladies and gentlemen? What image do we want to give to those who will continue to look, as we have done, at the majesty of a monument by thinking of its builders? What dreams do we want to inspire, and what imaginations do we want to grow up? These questions seem essential to me. Like any disaster, the sinister has given us a form of mirror. The collective emotion, the moments of recollection, whether religious or not, the political considerations on what drives us, on the technical concerns, on what it says about our heritage: these spaces of discussion, ladies and gentlemen, are necessary for this moment of sharing not to be confiscated by a simple vote of discipline. Our Lady of Paris can be the instrument of a renaissance, I believe deeply, and of a heritage and ecological reconquest. Just as the warhead cross concentrates the thrust on a point at the top of the pillar, the fire we have witnessed as unfortunate could be a surge in the defence of our "commons". But, let's take time, let's not be arrogant at history and events! That is why, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I solemnly ask all colleagues in the Chamber to think carefully: the adoption of a motion to reject would allow us to debate in depth...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u60	Motion for dismissal, Member of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Yes, I stand for a motion to refer to committee. We could have defended a motion of rejection, but it is not our state of mind, neither with regard to Notre-Dame, nor with regard to this debate. We are driven by a constructive spirit, and we would have liked a consensus to emerge. That is why, I repeat, I solemnly ask you to think carefully about it: a referral to committee seems to me to be at the level of the stakes that the cathedral represents, but also at the level of the wisdom that we must show in the face of history and in the face of a majestic work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u62	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u63	Madam Member, you know how to talk to me: I love constructive states of mind. There is, however, a difference between the words you have just spoken to conclude your remarks and everything that preceded them. The 2019 heritage budget is the highest in eleven years. The Heritage Lotto, which enabled the Heritage Foundation to recover more than 20 million euros, was added to this ambitious budget. These funds will be used to restore in particular the vernacular heritage, which is neither classified nor listed as historical monuments. This very good initiative, proposed by Stéphane Bern and decided by the President of the Republic, aroused a tremendous enthusiasm. A strong choice in favour of heritage has therefore been made, an effort which may need to be stepped up in the coming years. Moreover, there is a real enthusiasm among our compatriots for these heritage issues, which is a very good thing. A point of semantics now. Mr Woerth, the word "conservation" applied to the case in question does not mean long-term conservation after future restoration work: this is maintenance. Conservation is the emergency work required to safeguard the building – which has been done since April 15. In fact, an amendment by the rapporteur reversed the order of the words "restoration" and "conservation" in the title of the bill, so that it is clear that in heritage matters, conservation refers to safeguard measures. After the conservation come the restoration, then the maintenance of the cathedral, which aims to keep it at a high level of aesthetic and heritage quality. This interview is obviously the responsibility of the State, which will assume it. He has already assumed his financial responsibility through the reduction of tax on donations. You understand that if the works are financed through donations, it means that the state finances a large part of the restoration through the tax reduction – unless some companies or individuals give up this reduction. The State has assumed its responsibilities since the evening of 15 April, with all the teams that have fought the fire, of course, and since then with all the agents of the Ministry of Culture who are mobilized, without waiting to see if there were any donations to finance this commitment. I point out, and it is very important, that the means mobilised by the State in favour of Notre-Dame de Paris will not be deducted from the budgets that were planned to be allocated to the heritage in 2019 or 2020. It will be an additional contribution of money in favour of Notre-Dame, independent of the credits that were already devoted to the heritage. Mrs Autain, let us not enter into a competition or a competition of generosity. We are fortunate that the French are a generous people. Let them show this generosity without one or another judging their approach or classifying generosity according to the causes to which they are directed! The French demonstrate every day that they can be generous towards Notre-Dame de Paris, whose fire has created an extraordinary emotion in the country, while continuing to be generous in favour of all the other causes they usually support. Finally, I stress one last point: the minister I am will guarantee that the great principles of preservation of the heritage will be satisfied with the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. All French will be judges of the quality of the restoration. We want it to be transparent. We want the maximum consultation to take place with all the actors concerned, be it the bishopric, the City of Paris, the residents – because they also need to be associated, I was talking about it earlier with Pacôme Rupin, the deputy of the electoral district of Notre-Dame – or the French as a whole. This event has touched and continues to affect all our compatriots; We must therefore fully associate them with the restoration that we want as an example of Notre-Dame de Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u64	In the explanations of vote on the motion for referral to committee, Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u65	On April 15, the whole world, seized by the images of the burning cathedral, showed its attachment to Notre-Dame de Paris. Loved for its beauty, for the harmony of its forms by some, for its myth and for the meaning it has worn for more than eight centuries by others, Notre-Dame de Paris is our French book. The French and the inhabitants of the world have expressed this love and a very clear will to see the cathedral reborn from its ashes in an impulse of generosity as formidable as it is exceptional. The bill before us is intended only to accompany this spontaneous mobilization, and to provide a framework for this momentum to meet the challenge of rebuilding a single building. The first objective of the text is to provide a legal framework for the national subscription announced by the President of the Republic, in order to secure donations and ensure respect for the will of donors. The bill will also enable individuals who wish to contribute, regardless of their means, to benefit from a strengthened tax advantage, which will help to restore the building but also to train the necessary skills and thus to enhance the skills of the arts. Far from the futile polemics, this text demonstrates that France is able to adapt its procedures to the great challenges facing it. Another challenge is to organize the state's capacity to respond to the challenge of restoring the cathedral in five years. This impulse demonstrates a very strong political will to act to preserve Notre-Dame, while it is often this political will that is lacking to carry out projects of such magnitude. Unedited by its size and symbolic scope, this project will be exemplary, and without derogating, as the minister has just pointed out, from the foundations of heritage protection. To make this dramatic event a new page to write about our national history embodied in this unique building, the La République en marche group will vote against this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u66	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u67	The Republican Group will abstain on this motion for referral to committee. We have listened very carefully to Mrs Clémentine Autain's speech, but we cannot find ourselves in her entire speech. At the same time, we would like to express our extreme reservations about many of the provisions of this bill, including, as we have already said extensively in committee, sections 8 and 9. Of course, we have heard the words of the rapporteur and yours, Mr Minister: there is, like, a retro-pedaling of the original intentions, a widening gap between the drafting of these articles and what you say here. We are constantly told that your remarks should be such as to reassure us and all the French, as well as the experts from all over the world who have expressed their concerns about the proposed mechanism. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] At this stage of our debates, before we have the opportunity to express ourselves much more at length on the reasons why we remain very reluctant, at least, to this text, we therefore choose to abstain on this motion to refer it back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u68	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u69	This bill may raise doubts and questions, and MODEM will share them during the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u70	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u71	But we must move forward quickly, give a legal framework so that the momentum of the French is not in vain. MODEM fully trusts the Minister on this point. We have no doubt that the debates in the National Assembly and the Senate will improve and enrich the text, which is why we prefer this path and the parliamentary shuttle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u72	Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u73	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] That is why our group will vote against this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u74	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u75	Exceptional the fire that ravaged Notre-Dame de Paris. Exceptional the courage and dedication of firefighters who intervened to control it. Exceptional the emotion that has won the French and even crossed our borders – the space for a moment, Notre-Dame de Paris was Notre-Dame de France. Exceptional, this monument belongs to the national heritage and our history. Never did Victor Hugo write that "every face, every stone of the venerable monument is a page [...] of the history of the country" has been denied. However, "exceptional" does not mean "exceptional". Our hand must tremble when we are asked to vote an exceptional law. The truth is that we parliamentarians are prisoners of the five-year deadline set out in the presidential hat in a contest of circumstances. France, which makes reference to heritage throughout the world, has in its hands all the tools that must enable a successful restoration and conservation. She has in her midst the best professionals in the world...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u77	... and the necessary financial means, especially thanks to the donations of the French. In law, the State is manoeuvring. Better yet, minister: your department must be. No one imagines Malraux disposing of a restoration project... There is no need to derogate from the environmental or heritage rules, or even those of the public order. But the choice of orders puts Parliament out of play: the text in its current wording is unfortunately too vague on a number of aspects, as colleagues have pointed out. There is a need for more guarantees for national representation. That is why the Socialist and Related Group is in favour of referring it back to committee. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Furthermore, the French, as you know, minister, are opposed to an exceptional law. They do, however, like all of us here, want the restoration and conservation to be successful. A word of advice, minister: don't put the spleen in the short chuckle, don't confuse speed with precipitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u78	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u79	It's going to be moderate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u80	[[Matthieu Orphelin and Clémentine Autain applaud]] Minister, according to an Odoxa - Le Figaro - France Inter poll published this morning, 72% of French people are very opposed to an exceptional law for Notre-Dame. This morning, however, you propose to us, by Article 8 and above all by Article 9, to give you a blank cheque allowing you to derogate from the environmental code, from the rules on wealth, from the way citizens participate in public decision-making and from the code on public procurement. You said in your opening speech, Minister, that you wanted to anticipate so as not to have to come back to the national representation! It is therefore your conception of the balance of powers... The rapporteur spoke to us about prudence and respect, but said that the diagnoses which made it possible to know the nature of the construction and skills needs had not been made. Therefore, the IUD group, Agir et indépendants, thinks that to find, or rather to find, this famous consensus that we all need today – beyond the Notre-Dame de Paris project – we need guarantees. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] You say you bring it to us personally, minister, but it goes beyond your person: guarantees, in democracy, is the balance of powers. So from the moment you withdraw from the national representation its powers in this case, our group can only vote in favour of the motion for referral back to committee in order to be able to regain that consensus, respect for the institutional balance and the prudence mentioned by the rapporteur. As you said, minister, words must be followed by deeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u81	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u82	Everyone was able to express, in the assembly or in other places, how much emotion invaded us when we saw the flames ravaging Notre-Dame – we were almost surprised to see that a building could create the same. We have been reassured somewhere by the firefighters' so effective intervention. I believe that after all this, there was a need for a strong and comforting word, with an ambition for reconstruction. To the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, we therefore waited for the President of the Republic to deliver this statement, but very quickly, we saw, through his words, a pretentious will to haste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u83	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u84	It's about going fast, at all costs... but at what cost! The bill that you are introducing in this House today, Minister, is consistent with these presidential words of haste and pretension, since it proposes to break with all the rules, to derogate from all the codes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u85	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u86	You ask us to believe in your guarantees. We believe that there is no need for derogations in order to rebuild Notre-Dame and that, in addition, these would be dangerous for the future. The GDR group can't give you that white-seing you're asking for. It is for this reason, and also for others, that I will certainly unfortunately have the opportunity to refer to, that we call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this motion for referral back to committee. I think you, too, have been meducated before so much haste. It is still time not to go back, but to take the necessary time, that is to say to show humility in front of this magnificent building, this magnificent cathedral.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u87	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u88	In the Libertés et territoires group, we asked ourselves: was there a need for an exceptional bill? Our group is far from sure. He's even very reserved. Exceptional measures, emotional decisions generally do not make it possible to legislate properly. It is therefore rather sceptical that we have welcomed this text. However, we are aware that accompanying the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris is an imperative. This is true of the preservation of our heritage, but also of the support for our economic activity. We are prepared to debate this bill with a view to providing the necessary resources for this restoration, but our doubts about this bill go beyond our certainty. While we welcome the reactivity of the Government, which has wished to quickly support the momentum of solidarity of all our fellow citizens by providing a framework for it, we regret, as has just been said, the haste. We regret the establishment of a public institution, the creation of which does not necessarily seem necessary, and above all the ordinance provided for in Article 9, which opens the way for numerous derogations, particularly in the areas of urban planning, public procurement and environmental protection. The haste and lack of consultation on a subject which should have brought us all together unfortunately prevent us from addressing this text calmly. If we understand the usefulness and the stakes, we deplore the method. A referral to committee therefore seems wise so that we can finally take the time for reflection, up to the challenge ahead. Mr Minister, we have not been able to discuss with you in committee, so we expect more details on the future public institution and on the exemptions envisaged. Our group also hopes that the issue of heritage protection throughout the country will be addressed during this debate. Consequently, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote on this motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u89	On the motion for referral back to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u90	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 71 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 13 Against 52
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u91	In the general debate, Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u92	"No doubt it is still today a majestic and sublime building that the church of Notre-Dame de Paris. But, so beautiful that it has been preserved as it ages, it is difficult not to sigh, not to be indignant at the degradations, the mutilations without number". More than three weeks after the fire that ravaged Notre-Dame, these words that I borrow from Victor Hugo resonate as a prediction. I entered a few days ago in this weakened, fragile cathedral, but still standing. I have noted the urgency of keeping this testimony of the genius of humanity today under sensors, as a great sick person whose vital constants are measured at every moment. This disaster reminded us of our categorical duty: to preserve Our Lady, for us, for our history and for future generations. That is the commitment we make with this bill. To preserve and then restore, this is the meaning of the rapporteur's amendment, adopted in committee, to include conservation before restoration. The restoration will come in a second phase, after all the curative actions aimed at stopping the deterioration process have been carried out, after a diagnosis that will be long, at the inevitable pace of the building. This project will require, by its exceptional size and symbolism, the best intervention capacity of the State, the mobilisation of the best artistic and craft skills of France and Europe, the greatest exemplarity and our highest degree of demand. It is the political will of this text dedicated to this high place of our heritage, a place that makes the link with our past, that of research, of the experiences, of the knowledge that has enamelled its construction, but also with our future, that of the transmission of an eternal national history. The continuation of this story will be collective. That is why the creation of a public institution, in order to manage with the State the funds collected and to rebuild Notre-Dame, is necessary. The aim is to bring together those who know and those who know how, and to involve in their rightful place two actors indispensable to the reconstruction: the diocese and the City of Paris. The La République en marche group therefore proposes to set up an independent scientific committee, composed in particular of heritage experts, to issue recommendations. The example is what we all expect from this off-the-shelf construction project. It must be an example of restoration, commensurate with the artistic and historical importance of the building. The framework for the derogations provided for in article 9 will reassure the Government's intentions: it is not a question of derogating from the fundamental principles of heritage protection. The rules covered by these provisions are purely procedural and very narrow. We defend this text as we defend, without compromise, the rigour that is indispensable for reconstruction. The impetus given to the building people is to rebuild Notre-Dame in five years. This invites us to ambition, not haste. Respecting the pace of the building is a priority. Listen and trust heritage professionals as well. The first aesthetic emotion that Viollet-le-Duc felt, at his 6th birthday, took place as he gazed at the stained glass windows of the cathedral. A few decades later, he would restore the building by accepting the possibility that what he was rebuilding might never have existed. The attachment, be it Christian, heritage, historical, does not prevent innovation. It cannot be a brake on the audacity to which the Church has never renounced to emphasize her greatness. Hope, progress, resistance and ambition: Our Lady carries all these values. It is undeniably one of those French permanences that we must defend. To achieve this, it is necessary to accompany the tremendous momentum of generosity that has taken place in recent weeks. That is another objective of this bill. The gifts, spontaneously coming from all over the world, were announced numerous for the cathedral. They bear witness to a desire that goes beyond support for restoration: those who have given want to contribute to the building. Our Lady of Paris asks to put the human in her heart. "The largest products of architecture are less individual works than social works; Rather the birth of peoples in work than the jet of genius men," said Victor Hugo. The construction site that has opened is also that of our apprentices, and the generosity of the French will accompany the training in the trades of the renovation of the heritage. While the real cost of the project cannot yet be known, the controversy over the supposed billion already collected for Notre-Dame is still alive. Developing philanthropy is not creating hierarchy, competition between causes. With this text, we allow a strengthened tax system for donations from individuals. As with the Coluche law yesterday, it is essential today to live up to this new national challenge. This subscription that we put in the law requires us to be as transparent as possible. That is the meaning of our amendment to allow the establishment of conventions between the State and the foundations responsible for collecting to ensure respect for the will of donors and to inform them. Transparency also on the overall amount of donations collected: we are collectively making an amendment to provide the Government with a report to Parliament on all payments made. I will conclude as I began, quoting the one who loved her so much, so well sublimated. Victor Hugo wrote: "The time has come when no one is allowed to remain silent. A universal cry must finally call for the new France to help the old one. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The whole world has cried out its love at our cathedral, in an unprecedented momentum of mobilization. It is now up to us to hear this cry and to make the union necessary to write a new page of our national history triumph in this Chamber and to contribute by law to the fact that France and the world will finally find Notre-Dame de Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u93	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u94	Many beautiful things have been said about Our Lady and our unique relationship to this cathedral made of stones, but not only. What more can we say, if it is not that we bear a singular responsibility, that of respecting the attachment that the French manifested to Notre-Dame on the evening of the dramatic fire? This attachment obliges us, but in a particular way. Our role is not to rebuild Notre-Dame, but to do what is necessary, and only what is necessary, to ensure that the preservation and restoration of the cathedral is carried out in the best conditions. In essence, our role could, perhaps, have been limited to setting the rate of tax reduction and allowing donations from local authorities, the final point. All the rest is at best superfluous – starting with the national subscription intended to cover the collecting bodies, which, in fact, is of a purely formal nature, pure communication will say the wrong languages – or even useless – I am thinking of the public establishment that replaces the Centre for National Monuments and the Operator of Heritage and Real Estate Projects of Culture – or worse, dangerous – I am of course thinking of the provisions of Article 9 that allow the Government to derogate from the rules of urban planning, the environment or the preservation of our heritage, which I will return to later. Whether these are the laws and regulations that frame construction sites on historical monuments or the knowledge, know-how and talent of all those – chief architects, curators of historical monuments, Companions of duty, artisans of art – who dedicate their lives to the preservation of our heritage, everything is there, already gathered to achieve our common goal: to restore Notre-Dame in its almost millennium splendour. So, why, with all force, want to derogate from this protective framework, at the risk of depriving oneself of the assistance of the best experts and specialists? I have my little idea about it, like many of you certainly... Faced with the images of devastation, Emmanuel Macron was seized by emotion. But the obvious sincerity which he displayed at first glance was too quickly swept away by a form of pride. Why, the day after the tragedy, set the deadline for the reconstruction even though today, almost a month later, the impact of the fire on the structure of the building still cannot be accurately measured? Why launch an international contest on the arrow when we don't yet know how the frame that is supposed to support it will be restored? Why did the President have to give in so quickly to the culture of immediacy and sensationalism that is so bad for the future of an 850-year-old building? The race against the clock that Emmanuel Macron launched as a challenge does not serve Notre-Dame. As the best specialists all over the world say and repeat, such a construction site, which requires in the first place a huge survey of the facade and foundations, imposes an important time for reflection. A time that the Speaker does not seem willing to give him, placing the bill as a whole, without any compelling reason, under the control of urgency. But let's go into the details of the examination of the text. As regards national subscriptions, a number of comments are required. According to some experts, the sums collected to date – more than EUR 1 billion – would be sufficient to cover the costs of preserving and restoring the cathedral. Therefore, the question of a possible overpayment arises. In the rule of law, it seems difficult to move these sums towards other historic monuments at risk, of which I recall that there are 3500 in France. However, by sticking only to the Parisian religious heritage, I observe that the needs are considerable and that the City of Paris does not honour its commitments to the maintenance of the churches. Is this not a historic opportunity to support heritage at risk more effectively? Also in the area of grants, funding for the training of professionals competent to carry out this work is central. A "Generation Notre-Dame" will be born on the basis of this colossal construction site. There is an urgent need to attract the most motivated young people to these crafts, which offer opportunities and, more importantly, can give meaning to a working life. We must seize this opportunity to finally change society's view of these professions. The task is immense. To date, companies licensed for the restoration of classified buildings are already facing a shortage of labour. They told us: 100 mason positions and 250 carpenter positions are still looking for tenants. This is proof that the outlets are there, and will always exist after the restoration of Notre-Dame. It is even necessary to ensure that the building site of the cathedral does not aspire to all the skills to the detriment of the territories and their companies. Remember that there are almost 45,000 historical monuments in France, and that the needs are very great everywhere. Why not create, from the existing structures, a recruitment and training centre that could be set up on the parvis of Notre-Dame? It is a proposal that we make with others, including the Companions of Duty. With regard to the tax reduction, the Government had opted for a rate of 75 per cent, up to a limit of 1000 euros. Personally, I agree with this new mechanism, which takes stock of the event, even if we observe a posteriori that the bulk of the donations were collected before the announcement of the revalued rate. The report advocated by Gilles Carrez in the Finance Committee will give an accurate picture of the proportion of donors who have benefited from the reduction and those who have given up or have been unable to apply for it. That being said, I want to break a very widespread idea: no, heritage is not the great beneficiary of patronage! On the contrary, it is the poor parent if one considers that only 7% of all donations go to the preservation of the heritage. Controversies about donations from private groups may further divert the great patrons of heritage, which I deeply regret. Let's go to the more problematic and, let's say, dangerous articles. The Republican Group is proposing the deletion of Article 8 for the reasons I have already mentioned. Indeed, why not rely on pre-existing organizations? Is it really useful to create an ad hoc structure, which will lead to duplication and additional costs? I would add that, as it stands, the tasks entrusted to the public institution, namely to design, carry out and coordinate the work, are not sufficiently precise to avoid the mixing of genders. A clear distinction must be made between the control of works, which is the responsibility of the public institution, and other tasks, such as the control of works, which are entrusted to the chief architect of historical monuments. Still in the logic of strictly supervising the prerogatives of the institution, why not condition its decisions with the opinion of a committee of experts on heritage? That is what I will propose in an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u96	Let's move on to Article 9. The conviction of the Group of the Republicans, and this is the thread of our reflection on this text, is that it is not useful to vote on an exceptional law in order to achieve our objectives. If some thought should have been given, it should have focused on simplifying existing standards which, under the guise of better protection of the heritage, in fact limit companies' access to public procurement and increase the price. I would add that, as regulations stand, the chief architects of historic monuments, in the interest of the works, may already derogate from certain rules in force. So why do you want to go even further? Why defy heritage standards that have made France a global reference in this field? Why, if it is not to save time and open the door to architectural audacity which Notre-Dame has no need and which the French reject massively! Minister, this Article 9 alone justifies the abstention of the Republican Group. It is a forbearance in the form of a warning: let us, please, allow the experts time to make the right choices and place the construction site under the protection of the safest procedures. But it is above all an abstention from regret: in our view, this text is, above all, a prisoner of political contingencies and of a eagerness unrelated to the objectives, though laudable, which it proclaims. In short, you will have understood, minister, this is an abstention in the interest of Notre-Dame!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u97	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u98	Today we are considering the bill "for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and instituting a national subscription for this purpose". Everyone here remembers the terrible images of April 15th: Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, our cathedral, the cathedral of all the French, was in flames, which devastated the entire structure, the roof and caused major damage to the vaults, digging a gulf from the collapsed arrow to the choir and the nave. The sideration that was ours that day reflected the place that the cathedral – it is no longer even necessary to name it – occupies in our hearts, in our minds, in the souls of the French. It is only to remember the formidable spirit that reigned in the time of its construction to feel the emotion that was that of all those who helped to build this building. Europe's intellectual, spiritual and cultural flourishing gave us its most beautiful heritage. Every age has brought from its contribution, to the point of achieving, with the work of Viollet-le-Duc, around 1850, a balance and harmony as they nourished our collective imagination. Today everyone praises this building for the unheard of architectural gesture and the power of its elevation. Everyone should also remember the idea that made it possible. The cathedral is also a literary monument, the heart of Paris, the zero point of the roads of France. The luxury of its ornamentation is the counterpart of the public it welcomes and collects, the poorest, asylum seekers, all that humanity counts more fragile, which could find there a refuge, a permanent home, free from the bustles of the world. It is intimately linked to the history of the French people, with the opening by Philip the Bel, in 1302, of the first general states, the marriage of Marguerite de Valois and Henri de Navarre, the sacrament of Emperor Napoleon I, the Magnificat given in his choir to the liberation of Paris in 1944. Each of us has this in mind, when he thinks of Notre-Dame de Paris. Each of us is committed to restoring the cathedral as quickly as possible and under conditions that can maintain the balance and harmony that I mentioned earlier. To get to the text before us, does an exception monument call for an exception law? The answer, obviously, must be balanced against the proposals put forward in the bill. Reconstruction must be an opportunity to bring the country together; It must be the emanation and exaltation of the know-how that our artisans hold of an immemorial time. We still have these qualities, the materials, the ambition. This project is intended to bring them to the fore. In its article 2, the bill also provides – this provision has been unanimously adopted in committee – that some of the donations collected could be allocated to this field of work. Several amendments are intended to reinforce this approach; The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will itself defend a number of them, to go further. This is a common sense approach, which accompanies the upgrading of these trades and trainings, which are often unknown, yet very promising for those who follow them. In reconstruction, we must give priority to these national know-how by trusting the competence of professionals and their knowledge of fine art. By returning to the origin of the know-how, we can rebuild an even stronger building to face new times. Reconstruction is intended to take place as soon as possible. We support the presidential will and ambition to drive it in five years, while, of course, allowing ourselves the flexibility to reconsider the deadline in the light of the progress and difficulties that may arise. We must first and foremost focus on the quality of reconstruction – we know that it is also your ambition and your will, Minister. We understand, in this respect, the derogations you are announcing, which must enable us to overcome, in particular, a number of administrative obligations, which, as we know, often delay the start of a construction site. It should be recalled, however, that the regime of national monuments is already derogating. It is therefore desirable to refine the scope of the derogations you wish to apply for now. If we hear the argument that we must go quickly and not be embarrassed by formalities, we must not confuse speed with haste. That is why we hope to obtain information from you. In any case, as my group will point out by way of an amendment, France cannot exempt itself from its international obligations, particularly to UNESCO. We would like to move forward with you in order to better identify the derogations and thus vote with confidence. More broadly, our assembly feels equally interested in the architectural competitions you have announced. The subject of restoration, whether identical or not, is thorny and is of interest to many of our fellow citizens, as everyone has reminded us. It will probably require an initiative in this direction that could take – why not – the direction you have announced, that of a debate or consultation with citizens. With regard to the public institution set up under Article 8, we would like to know the extent of its scope of action. According to several comments, the renovation could go beyond the field of the cathedral itself and include, for example, the parvis and the Hôtel-Dieu. If that were to be true, it would profoundly change the face of the construction site and its restoration. This would also give it another dimension, by redefining this space more widely in the heart of Paris. It will also be necessary to be vigilant about the use of donations, which have been numerous and spontaneous, to ensure that there will be no waste, because of too heavy a structure, for example, but also to ensure that the whole of the donations are actually allocated to the cathedral. In the Committee on Finance, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has already expressed doubts as to the tax arrangements provided for in the text, which we consider irrelevant. If everyone has felt concerned about this tragedy, we do not want an exception law to be passed whenever a particular event occurs. In addition to this formal argument, a substantive remark is made. It may be considered legitimate to increase the amount of the tax reduction to 75% for a given time. However, today it seems inappropriate for us to go beyond the "Niche Coluche" by raising the ceiling to 1000 euros until 31 December. We will therefore propose two amendments, which aim to limit the reduction in time – by making it possible until 30 September – and, above all, to limit the reduction from 75% to 531 euros, to the same as the "Niche Coluche". The same applies to Article 4, which opens up a new right for local and regional authorities. Let us be clear: there is no question for our group of questioning the freedom of administration of local communities. That being said, we do not understand why we would include them in a particular device.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u99	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In the discussion that is under way, it is up to all of us to find ourselves around this bill, addressing concerns, and clarifying your department's intentions. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support you in this direction, so that we can achieve reconstruction in the best possible conditions and in the fastest possible time. Thus, in 850 years, from the top of its towers and from its arrow to the sky, the cathedral, our cathedral, will always watch over Paris and France, and we can still say, like Louis Aragon, "There was Notre-Dame, so much more beautiful on the side of the apse than on the side of the court, and the bridges, playing a curious marelle, from arch to arch between the islands, and there, opposite, from the City to the right bank..."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u101	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u102	You will forgive me for repeating what has already been said, which is the mark of some convergence between us, at least as a result of the observation. The fire that destroyed part of Notre-Dame Cathedral upset us and moved us beyond Paris, beyond our borders and the simple religious community. It is indeed a strong symbol of our collective history, a heritage that went in smoke, leaving room for great sadness. Once again, we must pay tribute to our firefighters, to their tremendous commitment, thanks to which this building, carrying so many collective vibrations, remains, despite everything, proud and standing. We do not wish to open any unnecessary controversy about the intentions of the President and the legislator underpinned by this text, or about the responsibilities that remain to be determined and whether the means made available to protect the building during the construction work were sufficient. These questions – we all wish – will find their answers, when the time comes. However, the concerns we have expressed in committee are not just ours; they are shared by many legitimate actors. They come first from the scientific community that specializes in our heritage – more than 1,000 conservatives in our country – for whom the haste with which the Speaker wanted to put this bill on the Orders of the Day, by setting a five-year deadline for the reconstruction of the building, is not compatible with architectural time. They ask you to give this site the necessary time for a reconstruction that is at the height of the priceless value of Notre-Dame. How can we, even before an architectural project has come into being, speak of deadlines without taking the risk of yielding to impatience, to the issues related to tourism – issues which are legitimate but which are at a time other than that which should dictate the architectural gesture? What's the emergency? The one related to the upcoming Olympic Games, the President of the Republic told us...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u103	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u104	... as if these two objectives, both of importance, could be treated in the same way. Assumptions of the duration of reconstruction vary: 5, 10, 15 years or more, depending on the assessment of the damage, and depending on the project to be carried out and the techniques to be used. In this regard, I wish to reiterate that the discussion of what should be done to replace the cathedral's arrow does not seem to us to have to enter into this discussion. I was, on Saturday, in a college in my constituency, where a teacher offered to all her students, after a long discussion, to decide on the proposal to rebuild, identical or not, the arrow; Unsurprisingly, a small majority of these young students voted in favour of the same, expressing a commitment to classical heritage values. This probably reflects the position of French society, but the interest that this small survey, carried out for educational purposes, in the classroom, is not reproducible at the level of Parliament or even the country: the question of the authenticity that should be preserved and transmitted to future generations, whatever philosophy it may be, is not the one that we should ask ourselves. As has been said, I believe, during our debates in committee, the fire, however terrible it may be, is now constitutive of Notre-Dame's DNA, and the manner in which it will be treated will indicate our ability to think about the role of architecture in our daily lives, in the sensitive bond that it can create between men. "Let us not erase the complexity of the thought that must surround this project behind a display of efficiency": it is, in essence, the strong message that these specialists of our heritage have addressed to us. Nevertheless, we have many assets that should facilitate this reconstruction, starting with the updated inventories of 800 years of perfectly up-to-date history, through which the men of today can follow the architectural and intellectual path of the successive builders of Notre-Dame. However, this does not argue for rushing under media pressure. Specialists are also concerned that this law of circumstance creates exceptional conditions for the renovation of the heritage. We regret, like them, and like several parliamentary groups, that the Government has chosen to put in place, in Article 9, too many measures derogating from the common law, in the areas of urban planning, the environment, public procurement and the road – the list is long. At a time when the environmental issue must be at the heart of our public policies, it seems to us essential that the rules be scrupulously respected and that the renovation be based on the many competences gathered within the Ministry of Culture, in consultation with the Order of Architects, the Federation of Conservation-Remediation Professionals and the entire scientific community. Faced with the emotion that has crossed borders, France wishes to open international, and more specifically European, cooperation in order to share know-how and skills. The idea is attractive. Donations from abroad were already worth €24 million 15 days ago. We are in favour of a mechanism for new solidarity in the field of heritage, subject to great vigilance as to the source of these funds. The momentum of solidarity that we have seen could not accommodate dirty money: let us be vigilant. The collective and European effort under the aegis of the former master architect of the Cologne Cathedral is also proof of a new awareness, within civil society and in the political world, of the value of heritage – another common good with more blurred borders. Historical building laws have always been the primary purpose of protection since their inception. They are universal, far from the permanent immediacy characteristic of our time, which seems to catch up with us. They tell in their own way centuries of construction, hesitation and audacity that have surely not been of all the tastes of contemporaries of the different ages of Notre-Dame Cathedral. The building carries within it the stages of an architectural transition, accumulated knowledge, which it would seem crazy that the presidential word decides to ignore. Another source of concern for our group is the creation of a new public facility dedicated to conservation and renovation. Would the existing foundations not be able to carry out the tasks that you wish to entrust to this future public institution? If it is finally created, we want transparency to be ensured through regular parliamentary scrutiny, as has been the case in the past with other national subscriptions. Because Parliament is the place that bears the soul of a people, and it represents it, it is desirable that the governance of this public institution be transparent and take account of the new demands expressed by our fellow citizens. To this end, we have tabled amendments clarifying the management of this future establishment and asking several questions: why an exception to the age limit for its future leader? Who will really be involved in the coordination of the work? We hope that this progress will be assessed before national representation once a year. Why, once again, are the powers to legislate by ordinances, which, as always, leave a doubt on this transparency? We have also expressed our disagreement with the terms of the tax exemptions that you propose: they will not benefit all French people. Indeed, half of the French, who do not pay income tax, are de facto excluded from the tax support scheme. For this reason, in the Committee on Finance, we have made a number of proposals allowing all those who wish to participate in this spirit of solidarity. In order to reduce the amount of public expenditure, we have proposed to reduce the ceiling for donations eligible for reimbursement from the State from EUR 1000 to EUR 531, which corresponds to the existing ceiling for donations to charitable associations. The adoption of these measures that would avoid any budgetary slippage would make it clear that you are making the choice of fiscal fairness in line with the national momentum. As we know, the French are attached to their heritage: this, in addition to the promises of donations, bears witness to material aids such as those of the wood industry, the importance of which in the context of this future construction site is major. The 3000 cubic metres of wood, possibly necessary for the structure of the nave, will have to meet very special characteristics in order to be in line with the history of Notre-Dame. The French are attached to the "small heritage", as it is called with some condescendence – or tenderness, it is according to – to our 42000 historical monuments spread over the whole territory. These monuments are largely owned by the communes of France, which do not always have the means to protect them. Of the 637 million euros that finance the built heritage, 326 come from the Ministry of Culture, but this represents only a tiny part of the Ministry's budget. Even if it is not this heritage that we are talking about this morning, the French have said it very quickly following the fire and the setting up of the subscription: they want this effort to have an impact on this small heritage. This subscription, which already amounts to more than 1 billion euros in pledges of donations, brings in it as much optimism as potential regrets, as if the generosity displayed, almost overtly, were to run counter to the misery and neglect of our society. Also, and since the vast majority of donors are asking for their donations to be directed towards the building itself, we hope at least that important work will be done to ensure that the 2000 works housed in the cathedral are accessible to a very large audience. Our amendments have not been considered admissible, either, but we continue to defend the idea that beyond the cathedral itself, it is this notion of common good that is in mind. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, beyond all polemics, I hope that we will be attentive to the strength of the symbols, even when they do not tell us about our great men, those that history generally holds. Let us remember a 26 January 2007, on this day of funeral in Notre-Dame Cathedral, where the nation was paying a vibrant tribute to Abbé Pierre, to this sincere and generous man, for the misery and lack of political will of men. This symbol is our honor, as will this exceptional construction site if we know how to be reasonable. Through this text, which aims to highlight the nation's attachment to its heritage, we hope that the spirit and values that nourish our history will be present in its most beautiful, bold representations. There is no beauty in these buildings turned towards heaven, or more modestly folded on the lives they protect, except with the intention of men and women to enshrine a will, a project in a moment of human history, to give meaning to the real. Build shelters for our dreams, imagine curves, angles, arrows, always tend towards perfection and, in the end, reconcile with the indescribable, join the inaccessible star. It is probably because the dreams of the builders of Notre-Dame were as great as so many major events took place there, resonating still in our hearts and continuing to make the heart of our nation beat. It is for all these reasons, Minister, that we ask you not to make this site an exclusion site, a site built on exceptional laws, a site for the air of time. If we agree on the final objective of this bill, we do not share all the conditions for its implementation. We fear, in this accelerated procedure, which you call "prediction," that the urgency will not take precedence over the time of diagnosis, reflection and reasonable action. So our group, based on the progress of the discussion, will finalise its position this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u105	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u106	In 1831, Victor Hugo, a lover of the Republic and of freedoms, described in his book Notre-Dame de Paris, the spectacular burning of the cathedral, which had so far emerged from his imagination: "On the top of the highest gallery, higher than the central rosacea, there was a great flame that climbed between the two bell towers with whirlwinds of sparks, a large, disorderly and furious flame whose wind at times carried a shred in the smoke." On April 15, 2019, the fruit of his imagination takes on a completely different meaning: it becomes premonitory. Our Lady of Paris is well gnawed by the flames and lets us see, as the writer imagined, our vulnerability. It is the heart tight by the emotion that we have witnessed the devastation of part of what we are. Several centuries after its construction, this symbol of the richness of humanity, this architectural beauty, the soul of Paris burned in a tragic light. We were all, during these long hours, the prostrate, powerless spectators of this tragedy. Alas, the reality, too astonishing not to look at it, forced us to stare at Notre-Dame for a long time, blushing, gangred by the flames that swallowed its structure. Symbol of its greatness, the arrow, from the top of its ninety-three meters, ceded and nourished the firemaker. It was at that time that we realized that Notre-Dame could disappear. And yet, albeit eroded, certainly diminished, our cathedral has resisted the fire and its belfries stand still solidly thanks to the unwavering commitment of more than 400 firefighters mobilized on the spot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u108	The determination of the soldiers of the fire, marked by courage and self-denial, brought an end to the devastating haemorrhage. But when the day rose, slowly, the time remained frozen. Now, a bewildering wound erupts two thirds of the roof, showing the ashes defiling the interior of the cathedral and the piles of rubble littering the ground. But the horror of the fire succeeded in courage, commitment and generosity. The spirit of generosity for the cathedral is a formidable movement, no matter where it comes from. Regrettably, some have used this situation. Others were genuinely shocked by the amounts coming from major donors; We must also make the effort to understand it. But above all, we will remember the time of gathering and cohesion. It is up to all of us now to give meaning to the future, to transform the challenge of this gigantic project into hope and opportunity. We therefore welcome the speed with which the Government presents its bill to the national representation to establish and regulate the national subscription for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. But we are very concerned, like many others, about the rush with which it is announced that this project should be carried out. What does "go fast" mean, on the scale of Notre-Dame? Read Michelangelo's true-false diary, which devoted more than twenty years of his life to his sculpture of the tomb of Julius Caesar, without having finished it. To embark on the realization of a work without being sure of being able to finish it during his life, without being sure of success, in the social sense of the term, is what constitutes the very essence of an artist – we have forgotten that. I do not ask you, of course, to return to the time of the construction of the cathedrals, the times when it took months and months to transport carefully chosen marble plaques during their extraction, and which could break clear upon arrival. But can we at least "return time to time", a much more contemporary formula? To return in concrete terms to this bill, sections 1 to 7 do not pose a particular problem to us. We are therefore in favour of creating an increased tax reduction, allowing donors to deduct 75 per cent of their donation from their income tax, up to a limit of 1000 euros. This limit is important because it must promote the small gifts of all French people. The participation of all communities is also made possible: they are free to make payments or to develop the training of artisans and builders in their regions. I will have more personal reservations to make on Article 8, but, as you will have understood, as many of us here, our reservations mainly concern the general derogations that you intend to benefit from, which in addition is by way of ordinances. Orders are justified in view of the urgency, when they are well supervised by Parliament and when the purposes are clear: this is not the case here. Minister, time has to stop. How can you imagine for a single second that we can sign a blank so that the Government can free itself from all the rules that may be enforceable against it? To this quasi-philosophical question, which we should ask ourselves about all the texts, we must add other very concrete arguments. How can we justify that territories must comply scrupulously with the law when, at the same time, we would derogate from all the applicable rules for the restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris? If certain standards of common law applicable to construction under the aegis of a community or a public establishment are too heavy, too burdensome, our group considers that it is then necessary to start a real job in order to put everything down. Let us open the debate, yes, but a transparent, framed debate with safeguards. Having said that, Minister of Culture, you are introducing a bill that proposes to move away from heritage preservation standards. Admittedly, your predecessor had made the non-compliance with the rules of the patrimony his trademark; That's the reality! Of course, the ELAN law was the vanguard of questioning the role of the architects of the Bâtiments de France. This can only increase anxiety! On the other hand, asking for a blank cheque to derogate from the environmental code, in the midst of a debate on the ecological transition, is almost a provocation! Proposing to question the modalities of public participation in decision-making is in part a betrayal of the momentum of generosity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u110	As for the request for a blank cheque to derogate from the rules on public procurement, it is the precious notion of exemplaryness, establishing trust, that is directly affected by it. This article alone is a terrible addict to the trust contract that you want to enter into with the French through this national subscription. You confiscate what belongs to the French so that some may arrogate the right to decide the derogations to be made to the standards. By this attitude, you are derogating from fairness by opening the field of possibles which, in our view, constitute the field of impossibles. In his press conference, the President of the Republic told us to "reaffirm the permanences of the French project, of what is the fabric of our nation", what he called "the art of being French". Would he be the only one, you alone, to be able to state what our permanences are?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u111	Yes! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u112	This great lady gave us a great lesson in humility, though, through this drama. The real reflection, which can only bring us together, is on the development of trades, skills and know-how, on the exploitation of vocational training. This reflection requires a long time. This is a position that we hold dear and which we have defended in committee, together with my colleagues Pierre-Yves Bournazel and Béatrice Descamps. This project is a great opportunity to honour forgotten or ill-considered know-how, men and women capable of stunning prowess, to show the world French excellence in heritage restoration. It is also an opportunity to involve citizens other than through their financial participation. Whatever our function, regardless of the amount of our donation, whether we have made one or not, moreover, the Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris belongs to all and can be the beginning of a collective adventure around heritage. For this event must also act as a real electroshock: yes, our heritage is ancient. Yes, he's fragile. He is in many cases in danger. The restoration work is considerable; Stéphane Bern has alerted us many times. And this time, nothing can ever be as before: for future budgets, not a euro must be missing from the wealth. And you are right, Minister, the 2019 budget marked a positive inflection: we wanted to underline it. Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to improving this text, we will propose three amendments. First, we will propose to include in the law that the donations and payments made for the preservation and restoration of the cathedral will be devoted exclusively to these objectives. As the Prime Minister has made clear on this point, we cannot betray donors by reallocating the proceeds of their donations. Otherwise, we will defend an amendment protecting ourselves for the future. Should a reallocation of these same donations and disbursements be considered, we anticipate that a donor consultation will be mandatory in order to obtain their consent. Finally, we will propose, like many, the deletion of Article 9. As you have understood, we are deeply affected by the possibility for the Government to derogate from all the rules that may be applicable to it in the conservation and restoration of the cathedral. [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] Minister of Culture, 1170 curators, architects, and professors shouted an alert cry, a cry from the heart in a gallery recently published. These personalities call upon the President of the Republic to be cautious and responsible in reaction to the statements in which he expressed the desire to rebuild the cathedral even more beautiful and within five years. The message sent by these specialists and by many Frenchmen is simple and clear: not only should we not do anything with Notre-Dame but, whatever the good intentions displayed, and this will be worth it for the future quinquennats, we must not let any doubt be cast on a restoration that must be perfectly framed. Unfortunately, this is what this article 9 does: this empowerment is neither necessary nor timely because it worries, it cries on a subject that should not suffer from any area of blur or shadow. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Therefore, if the IDU, Action and Independent Group supports the principles of this text, it is shared. A majority of us will adapt our vote to the debates and the new wording of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u113	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u114	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u115	The meeting was resumed. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u116	[[Smile]] With all the quotations listed since this morning, if Victor Hugo's works were still subject to copyright, and if – as he would have wished – the financial manna were involved in financing the creation of living artists, we would have enough funding tonight to help a large number of French creators! On April 15, 2019, a large-scale fire ravaged Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris. This masterpiece of the architecture of the Middle Ages, inscribed on UNESCO's World Heritage under various criteria – including that of human creative genius – has suffered irreversible damage. The images of the collapse of the arrow, broadcast live on television screens, caused a wave of shock felt far beyond our borders. Our Lady of Paris is inseparable from the history of France. In 2013, we celebrated its 850th anniversary. Long time has forged this national symbol and allowed its popular appropriation. This painful news leads us this morning to debate a bill of circumstance, entitled "for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and instituting a national subscription for this purpose". It is aware of the weight of history, with the necessary hindrance and the wisdom that must accompany it, that we must proceed. The old lady forces us to take the time for reflection. The intense emotion generated by the disaster has given rise to extraordinary generosity. Within 24 hours of the fire, more than 700 million euros of donations were announced. Most French and French people have been affected, and many of them – from the most modest to the richest – want to contribute to the reconstruction effort of the monument. But not all will benefit from this generosity. The smallest donors will be responsible for 100 per cent of their donation if they are not taxable. The generous sponsor offering 200 million euros will benefit from a tax reduction of 132 million, offset by the State, and thus by the taxpayer. To be even more explicit, I would like to point out that we are now proposing to improve Article 5a, which is the result of an amendment adopted in the Committee on Finance, which was submitted for opinion, providing for the submission to Parliament of a "student report... the share and amount of donations and payments made in respect of national subscriptions resulting in tax reductions...". We wish to establish an additional clarification mission in the report, namely to study the profile of the beneficiaries of a tax reduction per decile of standard of living, which will help to highlight the unfairness of the donation system. With regard to payments made under the national subscription, the text provides that they may come from local and regional authorities. The Explanatory Memorandum – but not the provisions themselves – states that "these payments are considered as capital grants" and not as capital expenditure. Legal uncertainty persists on the ability of regions to make such payments. In any event, it is true that some of them, who claimed to be financially suffocated by the decline in state resources, have been able to find the resources necessary to participate in this spirit of generosity. In any event, we hope that you will be in favour, Madam rapporteur, Minister, of our proposal to exclude these donations from the calculation of the increase in their operating expenses, which is now limited to 1.2% under the contract. The best solution to cover the costs of restoration and conservation of our heritage is taxation. National solidarity can finance such a scheme. We could consider, for example – even if such a mechanism might not be sufficient – raising an exceptional tax on big fortunes and large companies. We have seen that the French and French are committed to supporting the national subscription. This requires transparent and transparent management of these funds. The La France insoumise group hopes that this national subscription will not be placed under the high patronage of the President of the Republic, but that the fund control committee will be composed of two parliamentarians from the opposition of each assembly, and that it will regularly present conclusions, which can be consulted on a website, so that each one of them will be informed of developments in its work. On this occasion, we could also include in the legislation that surplus money collected may be used to finance other buildings that are part of our public heritage or require renovations. The demands of the French live up to their generosity. That is why many of them have expressed their disagreement with the derogations provided for in the bill: derogations from the rules of urban planning, environmental protection and even public participation... This exceptional regime, which you wish to include in the legislation, is of particular concern to us with regard to the compliance of planning documents, the issuance of works and construction authorizations, the modalities of public participation in the development of decisions and environmental assessment, preventive archaeology, and rules on public procurement, public affairs, roads and transportation. Your tendency to derogate from the legal provisions is confirmed until the appointment of the head of the public institution responsible for reconstruction. Orders as you contemplate them may provide that the heads of the institution are not subject to the age limit rules applicable to the public service of the State. At a time when the French and French have marked a clear rejection of nepotism, and have stressed the need for a more exemplary state, this bill ensures that General Jean-Louis Georgelin can take the lead in this institution and receive treatment for it: without prejudging the quality of the person in question, it reinforces our idea that this bill is a text that multiplies exceptions to law and ethics. This seems to us to be contrary to the general interest. It is precisely the general interest that should prevail. Here we could learn from a situation that is imposed on us. The fire at Notre-Dame de Paris was not foreseeable, but it was possible; However, we note that, in the current state of the Ministry of Culture's finances, the State could not react at all. The logic is implacable: since 2009, the budget for architectural heritage and monuments has been cut by 25%, from €440 million to €332 million. The State is increasingly disengaging itself from cultural affairs in favour of private patronage, which it encourages with great reinforcement of tax exemptions – borne by the taxpayer. Culture is the variable for adjusting government budgets. Yet it is a vector of emancipation, therefore of freedom. It is the absolute antidote against obscurantism. This text was written in haste. That is why we wanted to send him back to committee. We need to restore this wonderful building, but not under the conditions you offer us. We will therefore vote against this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] At one time, Notre-Dame de Paris was the embodiment of a new time that began. It is essential that its reconstruction be carried out in a spirit of respect for the great issues that enliven us today, as well as those that have been able to animate the builders of ancient times. Social, environmental, ethical and democratic issues must be at the heart of the concerns of those who will have the mission of carrying out this reconstruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u117	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u118	The fire that struck Notre-Dame moved us all. It is a new testimony of the fragility of things that we thought were insubmersible. There was a fear of seeing the Parisian landscape of Notre-Dame disappear and, with it, part of our history. We watched, with anguish and admiration, the firefighters act. The cathedral is not only an architectural feat and a place of worship, it is a work, a conquest of the sky by thousands of companions, for tens and tens of years; It owes its existence to their know-how, to their sacrifice sometimes. It is also an audacity, whose arrow built in the 19th century and fell into flames testified. It was finally the work of art sublimated and sublimating the writings of Hugo, Nerval or Aragon. This Gothic cathedral is a link to the conquest of freedom. In these moments of tension, the words spoken and the first decisions taken are of particular importance, as they respond directly to a collective, French and even global emotion. This may seem futile when so many human tragedies strike the world and our country, and this emotion that invades us is almost surprising; but it was essential to put words on what had happened, to reassure and give a perspective on what had happened. The next few days should have been the days of appeasement. Our Lady, thanks to the action of the firefighters, was saved, and no wounded were to be deplored. At that time we had to open the debate with specialists on the modalities of reconstruction, taking the time to do things step by step, as a cathedral demands. But it was not; the haste took precedence over reason, the President of the Republic improvising himself chief architect, decreed a period of five years for the reconstruction. Then comes this bill, which provides a framework for national subscriptions, but goes further by proposing to derogate from a whole set of rules protecting our heritage and our environment. All heritage experts object to this bill, which they consider unnecessary for reconstruction and dangerous for the precedent it creates. The rostrums multiply to warn about the danger of this rush. But the process was already under way, the Government remains deaf and the majority, who first tried a little to lead the sling, are now sticking to disciplined behaviour; She has no choice but to follow. Parliament is once again reduced to giving all power to the executive through two orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u119	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u120	Go fast, no matter what the price: it's your watchword. The work in committee has been particularly eloquent in this regard. Article 9, which allows the Government to derogate from the rules on, inter alia, heritage, urban planning and the environment, is particularly poorly written; the authorizations are far too wide, and it contains at each line a potential drift. We are reduced to crossing our fingers to avoid disasters. We are facing a pretension to history here. Of particular concern are the last two articles, which empower the Government to legislate by order. The first, article 8, authorizes the Government to establish a public institution to carry out the work – but you said, minister, that this establishment may not eventually be created... We wonder what this bill is for! It should be recalled here that there are already two public administrative establishments responsible for the renovation of historical monuments: the National Monuments Centre and the Heritage Operator and cultural real estate projects. These two establishments have already carried out large-scale restorations and have sufficient expertise to conduct operations around Notre-Dame. Moreover, the association of the diocese and the city hall of Paris is not without questions and even difficulties. If a natural association is made, because it is a place of worship, it can only go further than for the management of other cathedrals. With regard to the City Hall of Paris, it should not be possible for it to carry out certain works by derogating from the rules in force. Our Lady must not become a pretext for ignoring legal obligations. Finally, others have said: we are surprised at the absence of the Ministry of Culture in this article. The newly established public institution must be under its control, as is the National Historic Monuments Centre. This exclusion from the ministry and its officials is incomprehensible, as the reconstruction and conservation of Notre-Dame are part of its missions. As I explained earlier, Article 9 is in our view the most dangerous. Members of the GDR Group strongly oppose the proposal to derogate from the rules on urban planning, environmental protection, heritage protection or preventive archaeology. First of all, these derogations are not indispensable for the reconstruction of Notre-Dame. In the past, very large-scale construction projects have been carried out without going beyond them; These rules are not obstacles, but protections, especially of heritage, thanks to the importance of the role of the architects of the Bâtiments de France and the curators of heritage. Preventive archaeology, whose place was reinforced by the law of 7 July 2016, is not a constraint, but an indispensable element for the knowledge of our history. As far as the environment is concerned, the drafting of the article again poses a danger by opening the door to many abuses in the derogations granted. Indeed, the words "related operations" are insufficiently precise to limit derogations from the work directly related to Notre-Dame. Finally, in addition to the Urban Planning Code, the Environmental Code, the Construction and Housing Code, the Public Order Code, the General Public Property Code, the Road Traffic Code and the Transport Code, the Government is setting a dangerous precedent for future renovation and reconstruction. Let's straighten it out: these rules are protections, but they do not prohibit audacity. All of this must not make us forget the fundamental problem of public resources devoted to the conservation and renovation of our heritage. The funds dedicated to the protection of the heritage are for this year 345 million euros, less than the donations of the Pinault, Arnault and Bettencourt families combined. Heritage maintenance is increasingly dependent on sponsorship or initiatives that I will call "baroque", such as the heritage lottery. A good response to the fire at Notre-Dame would be to put the policy of conservation and renovation of the heritage down, by providing it with funding that meets the general interest, i.e. public financing. We can no longer rely on the so-called generosity, often interested, of great fortunes to maintain our monuments; We can no longer depend on their goodwill. There is something indecent about the huge donations of the most wealthy, who at the same time practice fiscal optimisation or even escape, and who accumulate billions of euros. Our society is gangrenized by inequalities; its cohesion is weakened by the appropriation by some of the wealth produced by the greatest number. What followed the fire of Notre-Dame is a new symptom, where suddenly the money appears according to the goodwill of some. In our view, this bill reflects a profound lack of knowledge of heritage; More than an ambition, what we see is a pretension on the part of the executive and its majority to think stronger than time. Nothing prevents in the current texts an effective reconstruction of Notre-Dame; emergency procedures exist. There is also no evidence that conventional procedures are wasting time. The architects of the Bâtiments de France or the various commissions are not there to obstruct or to annoy the public authorities. They're guarantors. You have already set them aside during the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development, known as the ELAN Law, and you repeat this mistake today. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the GDR Group will not vote as it stands for the text before us today. We denounce its content, which weakens our heritage, and we deplore its form, which puts Parliament at the foot of the wall with a new recourse to the ordinances. It is still time to show humility; It's essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u121	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u122	The fire at Notre-Dame de Paris affected every Frenchman and every Frenchman, and far beyond, in the depths of himself. This tragedy made everyone feel the strength of a carnal bond with a thousand-year-old heritage, and revived the silent consciousness of so many past efforts, so much accumulated genius, so many sacrifices, so much spirituality, and so much beauty, which gave a singular place to this cathedral. The emotion has been general, whether in Paris, in all territories or around the world. I share it, of course, as all members of the Freedom and Territory Group, and as I am sure, each and every one of you. First of all, I would like to express our group's gratitude to the firefighters and law enforcement personnel who were mobilised during the fire, who fought the flames at the risk of their lives, and whose unbroken commitment has helped to avoid the worst. The multi-sacular cathedral of Notre-Dame de Paris is still standing. After the lively emotion, which is still present, comes the time of reflection, then the time of restoration. For that is what we are talking about today: how best to accompany the restoration of Notre-Dame and to allow, in a second stage, its conservation? The President of the Republic, who, in his address to the nation, had called not to be caught "in the trap of haste," announced, however, that he wanted the cathedral to be rebuilt in five years. This voluntarism, this ambition, of which his words were drawn, we can no doubt share them. We're probably right to be, always, voluntarist.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u123	We need ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u124	Many times in its history, France, struck by the harshest trials, has found the strength to rebuild in the face of the abyss. However, we are convinced that we must also be realistic and measured, especially when restoring a unique gem of heritage is at stake. Let us also be humble, in the face of the weight of 900 years of history, in the face of the mark of the genius of man, on which the political agenda has no right, and before which we undoubtedly have only duties. In view of these considerations, the question of freedom and territory group is simple: should such a short time limit be fixed? By the way, did he fail to set a deadline? Our group doesn't believe it. We would have been able to show ambition and voluntarism without any notion of delay being taken into account. It is no doubt this original sin – a sin of pride, one might say – that led you today, minister, to introduce to us what looks very much like an exceptional bill. Of course, our duty is to accompany the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris. As I said, this is the case with the preservation and promotion of a unique cultural heritage, as well as with the image of France. More prosaically, I would also like to mention it, it is about the dynamism of tourism activity, and even economic activity in general. Indeed, with 14 million visitors, the cathedral is the most visited monument in Europe. Things being what they are, this aspect should not be overlooked. However, our group believes that the need to restore Notre-Dame de Paris and the imperative of efficiency should not lead us to haste. However, the speed with which the bill was submitted to us questions our collective ability to propose a successful reflection, and above all, to the extent to which this restoration raises issues. Moreover, the absence of the minister in committee did not allow us to answer our questions. At the moment, we have more questions than certainty, beyond the tremendous generosity of the many actors who have immediately mobilized – individuals, local authorities, businesses. Caution is all the more rigorous as the whole world looks at us. Our Lady of Paris is, as we know, a world-renowned building. The particular visibility of this site also obliges us to be exemplary. Our discussions may help us to reduce our doubts. At least that's what our group is hoping for. I am thinking above all, as I said, of this five-year goal, which one can wonder if it is achievable. By way of comparison, it took twenty-eight years to rebuild the Cathedral of Saint-Malo after a fire, and twenty years for the Cathedral of Reims after the First World War. Apart from the security of the site and the reflection on its future, which could delay the start of the work, do we really have the means, especially human, to keep such a calendar, knowing that the trades essential for the restoration suffer from a lack of labour? I am also thinking of section 8, which provides for the creation of a public establishment by order: why a new establishment when there are already two? What will be the role of the city hall and the diocese of Paris, which this new public institution is intended to involve in its decisions? Will they have any prerogatives with regard to a building belonging to the heritage of the State? A contractual partnership between the Centre for National Monuments, the city of Paris and the diocese would probably have been simpler. As it stands, we are therefore reserved on this provision. Then I am thinking of the derogations from the rules on heritage protection, the rules on public procurement and the environmental standards which may be made by order under Article 9. Are they necessary knowing that derogations are already possible under constant law? Couldn't they at least be clarified right now? This article, which seems to introduce double standards, could pose significant legal risks. If the State can free itself from it so easily, how can we justify the relevance of the rules relating to the conservation of heritage to local and regional authorities, whereas these rules sometimes create difficulties and obstacles, all the territories know that? Are these derogations also in line with European rules? Nothing's less sure. They could therefore be invalidated. A majority of Members of our group will therefore propose the deletion of Article 9. Our questions also concern Article 5, although we are pleased that it facilitates small donations and thus supports the generosity of our fellow citizens. For example, some members of our group believe that the 75% tax reduction rate could be up to €7500 for both natural and legal persons. Furthermore, it seems regrettable to us that you have chosen a tax reduction, not a tax credit, which would have allowed sometimes modest donors, who are not subject to income tax, to also benefit from state support. Moreover, why limit these incentives to donations for Notre-Dame de Paris and not include monuments classified in all our territories? This essential, if not vital, question demonstrates that it is the tax framework as a whole that needs to be improved. Finally, the question of the use of a possible surplus of donations arises: could we not allocate it to the conservation of our heritage throughout the territory? For the fire of Notre-Dame asks us about the means of conservation of this heritage. Many specialists have alerted us to this. A general awareness is now more than necessary. That is why our group is calling on you, Minister, to draw up a precise picture of the difficulties of conservation of the entire heritage and a diagnosis of the fire of the main monuments. Minister, to date, 65% of the heritage credits go to Île-de-France. The rest of the territory must share the remaining third. That is why, as you will understand, we believe that this bill should be an opportunity to address another aspect of the territorial divide. Our group will therefore support an amendment to ensure that surplus donations are used for the restoration, preservation and conservation of monuments in all territories. If these funds are allocated in full transparency – I insist on this requirement of transparency – we are sure that none of those who have made a donation to Notre-Dame de Paris, and ultimately, to save a heritage at risk, will feel betrayed. As you can see, we now have more questions than certainty. Yes, we need to be responsive for this national monument to be restored, but this bill seems to have been drafted in haste. However, we are approaching this debate in a constructive spirit, with the sincere desire to make progress in enriching and improving this bill, and the desire to work collectively to defend a history, culture and heritage to which we are all attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u125	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u126	I will not go back to the immense emotion raised by the fire of Notre-Dame, the most visited monument in Europe, located in the constituency of which I have the honour of being a Member of Parliament, where many heritage enthusiasts live, very attached to Notre-Dame and, first and foremost, the residents, who live in and behind the rue du Cloître-Notre-Dame, as well as the many Catholic faithful, who regularly gathered there. I just want to stress here that we still have to welcome the exceptional level of professionalism and voluntarism of the firefighters in Paris, first of all, which have prevented the total collapse of the cathedral, as well as of all those officials of the Ministry of Culture and service providers who are working to consolidate it. We are here today to consider a bill that has three broad objectives. The first is to raise the necessary funding for the restoration of Notre-Dame. It is proposed to boost national subscriptions through a 75% tax reduction for donations up to 1000 euros. If this subscription is already a real success, we must put an end to the debate on a possible surplus. First of all, nothing says today that there will be one. We must also assure all donors that their generosity will be well dedicated to the project of reconstruction of Notre-Dame. The second objective of this bill is to organize the reconstruction of Notre-Dame through the creation of a public institution. Of course, this immense and unprecedented project raises many questions. The first priority must be to ensure the quality of the reconstruction of Notre-Dame, no matter how long it takes. The creation of a public institution can lead to greater efficiency by bringing together a number of actors around the table. But we must not forget anyone and abandon the unfortunate habit that we in France do not involve all the stakeholders. I am thinking in particular of the residents, residents and traders of Notre-Dame, whose lives have been disrupted and for whom decisions concerning the bases of life of the site and the perimeters of safety will have a decisive impact on their lives and their activities in the coming years. Decisions must not be made without them. They must be debated, explained and adapted as much as possible to simplify their lives. That is why I have tabled an amendment to create an advisory board, which will involve them now and over time. This project must be exemplary. In particular, it is important that those hard hit by this tragedy be compensated. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There is also the question of the governance of this public institution, if it is created. Will he be the contractor? Will he have the responsibility to choose the contractor? Will he manage the architectural competition? Who will choose the reconstruction project? I take this opportunity to share the opinion of many Parisians, who, aesthetically speaking, want a reconstruction almost identical. Only a discreet gesture could mark the fact that there was a reconstruction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u127	A very discreet gesture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u128	A scientific council, directly attached to the president of this public institution, must be established to ensure that the best heritage connoisseurs can advise the institution and avoid disasters. It is also necessary to give a Scientific Director a central place in the hierarchy of the public institution. Finally, what will be the place of the Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs – DRAC – to ensure the proper conduct of the work? The third objective is to make it possible, by order, to derogate from a number of rules. We must also be vigilant on this point. While we must limit derogations to a few time-saving procedures, we must not derogate from the rules aimed at, for example, preserving the environment of the site and its surroundings, as well as the health of those who work or live there. Finally, I want to point out that this bill does not meet an objective that I believe is essential and that we will have to find another answer. It is a matter of carrying a coherent and visionary project for the island of La Cité, which is a jewel of our civilization and the cradle of Paris. The reception of visitors to Europe's most visited monument is failing. At the Hôtel-Dieu, as well as at the Palais de Justice, or at the Police Prefecture, great transformations are carried out by the ministries, but without a common vision. Parisians are less and less on the island of La Cité despite its historic flower market. We must keep life and people in both parts of the island, and fight against seasonal rentals. To respond, the State managing most of the island through four ministries – ministries of culture, interior, justice and health – would require interministerial coordination in connection with the city of Paris to carry out this project. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have a challenge here that is as exciting as it is demanding. Let us live up to the genius of our illustrious ancestors. Everything must be done to reassure the lovers of our heritage and cathedral. This reconstruction project must involve everyone and be exemplary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u129	It's a restoration project!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u130	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u131	Everyone agrees on one point: the reconstruction site of Notre-Dame must be exemplary. But then, how can we imagine that this project does not comply with the regulations in force in the field of the environment, urban planning, or heritage? However, that is what clause 9 of the bill we are considering today allows. How can we imagine that this emblematic construction site is not at the forefront of the management and sorting of waste from construction sites, while the Government is presenting its circular economy bill in a month's time? How can we imagine, only a few weeks after the end of the great national debate, bypassing the modalities of public participation in the operation? How can we imagine derogating from the rules of planning and protection of heritage, when we rightly ask all public and private contractors to comply with them? All this is unimaginable and ultimately quite incomprehensible. However, this is what Article 9 allows as long as it is not better framed. Minister, in your remarks this morning, I heard your willingness to reassure us. If, as you said, it is only a matter of adapting to the margin some well-identified procedures, then let's name them, list them, and rewrite Article 9 to limit it to these specific points.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u132	That makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u133	To reassure us, a complete rewrite of article 9 had been envisaged by the Government through an amendment, but unfortunately it seems abandoned for the time being. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u134	We don't see anything coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u135	Citizens' doubts and the concerns of experts must be heard and addressed. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I know you are sensitive to environmental issues and to the long term. I am counting on you to delete Article 9 or to rewrite it entirely. Our Lady is a universal masterpiece. By making its reconstruction an exemplary operation in the fields of environment, public participation, waste management, and heritage, you will mark your respect for another sublime work of universal art, to which we owe so much: nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u136	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u137	The fire at Notre-Dame de Paris, which declared itself on 15 April last, aroused the emotion of the entire national community, and for cause. The one that rises in the heart of the island of the City, repeatedly portrayed in the most beautiful writings of literature, both as a witness to our collective history and as a universal motive of human genius, almost disappeared in the devouring agony of its arrow. Thus, on the evening of April 15, the fire at Notre-Dame de Paris was a moment when the entire nation held its breath, aware that a dramatic page of its cultural history was playing there. We have a duty to preserve this national unity, which has been accompanied by a spontaneous impulse of generosity. For too long, the preservation of our cultural heritage has been the subject of countless disputes, between the Moderns and the Anciens, the elected representatives and architects of the Bâtiments de France, and the associations for the defence of heritage and the services of the State. If they say that the French are committed to their heritage, these vain quarrels have instilled a culture of distrust. Feeding a new quarrel doesn't seem to me to be up to the stakes. However, this text, because of its inaccuracies, has already lent too much to criticism. The numerous derogations from the ordinary law provided for in Article 9, because of the vagueness of their contours, are likely to fuel all fantasies. But I want to believe that at this time, national unity remains within reach. It involves doing, as you said, Minister, from the Notre-Dame yard an exemplary conservation-restoration exercise. We are all dreaming in this House that this project will be an opportunity to expose to the face of the world the excellence of the crafts that guarantee the transmission of the most beautiful legacies of our history to the next generation. We all want it to show once again the effectiveness and unwaveringness of the world's desire for heritage protection policies. We all want to reassure our fellow citizens of the intentions of the Government and the legislator on the construction site that must be carried out in accordance with the rules of art, while adapting to the realities and constraints of our time, as Viollet-le-Duc did in his time by proposing a new design of the monument without removing anything from its historical coherence. But this contract of trust can be concluded only on three conditions: first, by including in the text precisely respect for the fundamental principles of conservation and restoration, as formalized by international doctrine since the drafting of the Venice Charter in 1964.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u138	We can't say better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u139	If it is not for the legislator to decide whether the cathedral should be reconstructed in the same way, we must give assurances about the purpose of the works – these must take into account the artistic and architectural interest of the monument, while considering each stratum of its history. We will not come back to the tragic evening of April 15, which is now another painful episode in the history of the monument. Secondly, we must reassure ourselves of the central role that the Ministry of Culture must occupy in the design, monitoring and implementation of the work. The creation of an ad hoc public institution cannot justify the exclusion of the technical and scientific expertise of the architects of the Bâtiments de France or the chief architects of historical monuments. That is why I propose to clarify the tasks of the latter with regard to the management of delegated works, following the model of the existing public institutions of the State. It is also essential that a scientific committee be placed on the board of directors of the public institution in order to inform its decisions on historical, architectural, scientific and cultural matters. Finally, this trust contract is possible if, rather than blindly derogating from the procedures guaranteed by the Ministry of Culture itself, at the risk of creating precedents whose dizzying risks we cannot measure, we rely on the richness of the existing arrangements in the heritage code. In fact, today, there is no indication that it is necessary to derogate from our heritage code in order to achieve the ambitious and justified objectives set by the President of the Republic and to meet the five-year deadline. I regret this trial of intent, which seems to be done regularly to the services of your ministry. While a dedicated pilotage of the Notre-Dame yard may seem appropriate, it has never been shown that the scheme inherited from the law of 31 December 1913 was inoperative, including in the event of a disaster. It has never been established that the procedure for the authorization of classical works could slow down a state yard of such magnitude, especially since the opinion of the National Heritage and Architecture Commission or that of the architects of the Bâtiments de France is advisory, the prefect retaining the last word. Above all, it would be a pity for the State to deprive itself of a surety that could extinguish criticism in the event of a challenge to the project. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why I sincerely hope that, together, we can discuss articles 8 and 9 in depth so as not to make criticism unnecessary. Together, we must affirm our will to carry out an exemplary conservation and restoration project in order to restore to Notre-Dame its majesty, magnificence and radiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u140	Very well said!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u141	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u142	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u143	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u144	Be assured, ladies and gentlemen: even if I go up to the gallery, I will be brief and hold the two minutes that are allotted to me. France and the world mourned Notre-Dame de Paris. The courage of our firefighters has avoided the irreparable. The restoration of the cathedral – this sacred place – should have been the symbol of the gathering of the French: gathering to know the truth, without bias, while waiting for the results of a long investigation; to make this restoration an example of French know-how as world-renowned crafts; to launch a vast rescue plan for our often abandoned cathedrals and churches. Unfortunately, minister, you have preferred to bow to the pride and megalomania of the President of the Republic, which imposes on you a dangerous and unnecessary haste of which this bill is the first derogatory stone. The pieces of the puzzle begin to assemble and I want to alert our compatriots: first a press release of the Elysée evoking a contemporary architectural gesture; Then, the statements of Mr. Guerini, delegate general of the Republic on the march, relaying this idea of a contemporary element on Notre-Dame de Paris; then, the publication in the press of more or less delirious sketches; Finally, the announcement of an international architectural competition – why such a contest while Viollet-le-Duc left all the plans of the arrow? And now, this derogatory bill. Since we are dealing with Article 1, do you think that the French wished to give money to satisfy the demeasure of the President of the Republic who believes himself to own Notre-Dame de Paris?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u145	You're always to the extent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u146	Our Lady of Paris belongs to centuries, to the humility of men, to wisdom. You would do well to get rid of this article 9 derogatory and to hear the French who do not want a contemporary architectural gesture but want the restoration of Notre-Dame in the same way, no matter how long it takes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u147	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u148	For the French, Notre-Dame de Paris, it is much more than a magnificent cathedral. Our Lady is the vibrant heart of France. Notre-Dame is a literary monument whose pages are enriched every century, thanks to Gérard de Nerval, Victor Hugo, Louis Aragon, Charters Péguy, Paul Claudel. Notre-Dame is the voice of France with its world-famous organs, five keyboards, 109 games and nearly 8,000 pipes. Notre-Dame is also the victorious song of France. How can you not think of all the TeDeums played on the island of La Cité? How can we not think of the one of 1944 when France was finally able to heal its wounds? Notre-Dame is the beauty of its centuries-old facade and the shimmering colours of its stained glass windows. Our Lady is also the resting place of the tunic of Saint Louis, of the holy crown of thorns and of a nail of the Passion of Christ, not to mention the tender look of this statue of the Virgin, near the choir. To say that Notre-Dame is an allegory of France is not a vain expression. This is where more than 12 million visitors visit each year, making it the most visited place in Europe, a place of gathering, where all could enter free of charge. For all these reasons, we must rebuild Notre-Dame, but with respect for the knowledge chain, for the transmission of techniques, and, of course, without derogation from the rules on restoration of the heritage. These rules apply to all, including the State that must not overcome constraints. So, yes, let us rebuild Notre-Dame but respecting its architecture, its history, its appearance because this cathedral, more than any other monument, represents France, its foundation, and its incarnation. It is the very symbol of our unity, of our history, of our civilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u149	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u150	I will be very brief on Article 1e r since the discussion will continue, in a more concrete way, when the amendments are discussed. We have already expressed all our concerns about some aspects of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u151	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u152	We were all paralyzed in front of our screens in the face of this devastating fire that threatened to decimate one of the jewels of French heritage. It was our cultural intimacy that flew away that night. This accident has awakened and revealed the link we have with our civilization and our history, the carnal attachment we have to them. This cathedral is also an emblem of French and European Christendom in that it has been home to Catholic worship for more than eight hundred years. It's not a museum. The cathedral has preceded us and will survive us, it has resisted the hazards of centuries. It therefore seems to me important to respect both its original silhouette and its destiny. This tragedy has given rise to genuine national and even international communion. It has given rise to a large national subscription. This surge of generosity has apparently raised more than 1 billion euros in a few days in order to restore the cathedral partially but seriously damaged. This national subscription must not suffer from any appropriation. That is why we do not want it to be placed under the high authority of the President of the Republic. We oppose any law of exception. We must be careful to preserve the timeless character of Notre-Dame de Paris and not to appropriate its appearance to make it a marker of a political mandate or an era. Notre-Dame de Paris is the vibrant heart of France. It is the centenary symbol of European civilization and the Christian roots of the European continent. It is a cultural, cultural and heritage treasure from which all the roads of France depart. It is important to restore it to the rules of the art by thinking about future generations, especially since we have all the skills in France to do so. The French, believers or not, have all been bruised by this memory and heritage suffering. It was a moment of national unity. I am dismayed that, even on such a subject, the President of the Republic, in an opportunistic exaltation, managed to divide the French and arouse their concerns about their past, about this present tragedy and about our future. In a recent survey, 72 per cent of them voted against an emergency law for reconstruction. They want an identical restoration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u153	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u154	Then, by grace, Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris is a landmark of Catholics but also the house of the French. Let's keep it, let's restore it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u155	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u156	"With what bitterness he saw all his scaffolding of glory and poetry collapse piece by piece! It is in these almost prophetic terms that Victor Hugo describes in Notre-Dame de Paris the fire devouring the building in front of the helpless people. That's what happened on April 5, 2019. A masterpiece went in smoke, facing many Parisians, who were watching, erasing, the spectacle of these indomitable flames. Let us recall, in this regard, Rudyard Kipling's magnificent poem: "If you can see the work of your life destroyed, and without saying a single word you will build, [...] You will be a man, my son. » When the fire occurred, I was deeply moved by my son's questions: "But why did they set Notre-Dame on fire? I tried to answer him as best I could. In every family, be it Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, Buddhist or atheist, it was the emotion, I'm sure. After the fear aroused by this terrible event now comes the time of reconstruction and restoration. This requires humility; It takes the time of humility. We're not building a highway or a nuclear power plant! We are rebuilding a jewel in the history of France, a symbol both material and immaterial, even spiritual. This task requires exceptional means. This is what the bill before us, with the launch of a national subscription, the creation of a public institution to oversee the renovation and conservation of the site, and the development or derogation from certain legislative provisions to facilitate the completion of the work. If the rush of announcements does not seem to us to correspond to the necessary humility in the face of the reconstruction of such a work, the Libertés et territoires group can only welcome the guidelines set out in this text. Paul Valéry said: "Of all the acts, the most complete is that of building. So let's get to work and regenerate the community of destiny of which we are all members!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u157	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u158	On April 16, France woke up orphaned by the arrow of Notre-Dame. As we come together to reflect on its restoration, I would like to make a few reminders. First, it was a place of memory that burned. Moreover, Pierre Nora, in his well-known book, cites not only the cathedral, but also the restoration conducted by Viollet-le-Duc. We have, on the island of the City, this cathedral, which is a whole, which corresponds to a collective memory. His fire gave rise to an extraordinary moment of unity. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I adjure you to ensure that this unity is not broken, in particular by opposing generosity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u159	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u160	... as some have done on the other side of this House, or by reinvigorating opposition between the Ancients and the Moderns. Let us show absolute respect for the work. Let us have in mind that it is the judgment of the centuries that awaits us. We are going to restore not for five or ten years, but, hopefully, for the coming millennium, for the Parisians, for France and for its influence. Under these conditions, let us be very careful. Let us keep in mind the Charter of Venice, which should inspire us. Let us not leave the pride of an architectural gesture desired by some to break this moment of national unity. Our entire assembly must be united here so that Notre-Dame renovated, Notre-Dame restored, can live up to our history. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We support the principle of a national subscription, but let us not let the pride of the present century betray the past and threaten this cathedral and its image in the centuries to come!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u161	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u162	After the considerable emotion and sadness that have invaded us all, in France, in Europe and in many countries around the world, the time has come for restoration and reflection. It is a matter of working together, collectively, to repair the wrongs and damage caused to Notre-Dame de Paris. We are the generation that has not been able to protect and preserve Our Lady. Our historical responsibility is therefore to repair it, restore it, restore its splendour damaged or carried away by the flames. This enormous challenge for our generation and our country requires a great deal of humility, modesty and sobriety.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u163	And ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u164	No more than the speakers who spoke around me do not understand the interest of launching an international architectural competition to try to imagine and build a new arrow, when we have all the plans and all the precise data we need to restore the arrow Viollet-le-Duc had given to the cathedral. By the way, I also do not understand the very deep contempt that clearly continues to take place in many circles with regard to the nineteenth century and the work of restoration of the heritage of which Viollet-le-Duc had been singing. We do not understand further why it was necessary to mention a "contemporary architectural gesture". [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The challenge facing our generation is, I repeat, to restore Notre-Dame de Paris with modesty, humility and fidelity, while at the same time highlighting French excellence in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u165	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u166	The fire that devastated Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris on April 15th gave rise to an unprecedented emotion in our country and beyond our borders. I also want to stress the remarkable commitment of the firefighters of Paris, who have worked for more than eight hours, at the risk of their lives, to extinguish the fire and intelligently limit the damage. We must now rebuild. The President of the Republic has committed himself to doing this in five years, and today we are considering an exceptional text intended to accompany the momentum of mobilization of French and French women by a specific collection mechanism within the framework of a national subscription. As we approach the examination of this text, I believe that we can agree on the final objective: to make Notre-Dame de Paris reborn from its ashes. However, given that it took more than a century to build it and that it was subsequently improved and enriched for more than nine centuries, I wonder about the consequences of the decision taken by the President of the Republic to proceed with its restoration in five years, at the risk of failing to respect the building and its builders. For my part, I hope that the cathedral of Paris, the jewel of humanity, will be restored in the same way, respecting the work of its builders. To do this, we must respect the know-how of trades, artisans, the best workers in France and specialists in the Bâtiments de France. I share the objectives of this bill for the restoration of Notre-Dame, but why do we want to free ourselves from the rules on urban planning, the environment, construction, the preservation of our heritage, public order, roads and transportation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u167	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u168	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u169	The great fire of Notre-Dame de Paris bruised the entire national community. As a Member of Parliament and as a citizen, I wish to be able to pass a law guaranteeing the restoration and conservation of the cathedral. Mr Minister, you must accept a real dialogue with the Members of the Republicans Group and the senators of the majority in the Luxembourg Palace, so that we can unanimously adopt this text at the end of the shuttle. For that, we need a number of guarantees. As the previous speakers have eloquently said, we have concerns about the bill as it stands, particularly as regards the scope of the order under section 9 and the objective: is it a matter of restoring the cathedral to the same or not? Please understand, minister, that we do not adopt a partisan or political attitude. We have demonstrated yesterday, by voting on the bill to create a similar right for news agencies and press publishers, that we are perfectly capable of approving a text that you are presenting. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] In this case, we want precisely to reach a consensus, but we need, for that, that you guarantee us that the intention of the President of the Republic – and of the Government – is not to shape the Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris with his hand. We wish to restore it fully, preserving what centuries have passed on to us and what a great fire, alas, has destroyed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u170	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u171	Our Lady's fire caused emotion all over the world. We receive daily testimonies from citizens from all countries. The event has become global. Today, the whole world is watching us. We must show our ability to restore the cathedral, to rebuild it quickly, to rebuild it by following the canons of our heritage and taking into account what history has left us, but also our reconstruction capabilities. We need to be open-minded. It is not possible to reconstruct Notre-Dame in the same way. For example, are we going to reintroduce very heavy materials such as lead, when we now have much lighter materials? We can, of course, reconstruct it in the same way in its visual aspect, but we must also know how to use the materials of today, the most suitable for its reconstruction, knowing that its structures have suffered. It can never be reconstructed in its entirety in the same way. Had it burned two hundred years ago, would it have been rebuilt with materials used six hundred or seven hundred years ago? The arrow itself has evolved over the centuries. Let us rebuild, but let us do so with an open mind and as effectively as possible, given what we can do in terms of construction today, in the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u172	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-10-O1225.u173	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the draft law for the conservation and restoration of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and instituting a national subscription for this purpose. The meeting is adjourned.
