ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u1	The next item is the debate on the future of the hydroelectric sector. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. I would remind you that questions such as answers are limited to two minutes. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u2	Since the loss of EDF's status as a public establishment in 2004, the European Commission has been pressuring France to open up our hydroelectric facilities to competition as part of the renewal of the concessions. In October 2015, the Commission, which had initiated a first proceeding in 2006, issued a notice to France, calling into question "State measures which, by preventing the entry and expansion of competitors, have the effect of maintaining or strengthening EDF's dominant position". In line with the liberal ideological orientations of the Head of State, the Government itself has made the privatization of the management of hydroelectric dams one of its priorities and has opened negotiations with Brussels on the complete opening to competition of concessions that are gradually coming to an end. These discreet negotiations cause the worst to be feared. In France, hydropower accounts for about 70 terawatt hours per year, representing 12% of hexagonal electricity production and more than 60% of renewable energy. French hydropower plants form a diverse set of structures, including low-, medium- and high-fall dams, combined with reservoirs. They represent an instrument for modulation of electricity production, thus making a major contribution to the stability of our electrical system. Hydroelectricity is expected to play an increasingly important role, in the context of the development of non-modulable renewable energies such as wind and solar power, to compensate for any production shortfalls due to the absence of wind or sun. Our facilities are also, of course, an instrument for managing the common good of water resources. The 7 billion cubic metres of water retained by our dams are a valuable asset for agriculture, the supply of drinking water to people, industry, the cooling of our nuclear reactors, the development of leisure activities. The works also help to prevent risks, be they flood mitigation or, on the other hand, the control of the stretches. The services provided by our hydropower plants exclude themselves from being in a logic of operation governed by the search for the optimum of electricity generation. A broad consensus is emerging, in the population as well as among local and national elected representatives, to reject the opening to competition of this strategic sector in economic, social and environmental terms, which is based on a heritage that has long been financed by the French and largely amortized. Marie-Noëlle Battistel pointed out in April 2018, in the conclusions of the working group on hydro-electric concessions, that hydro-electricity "exceeds by far the only framework of energy production and covers multiple issues. She will make an informed contribution to the debate. The Brussels injunction seems all the more absurd because among those of our neighbours who do not have a concessive regime, competition is not and has not been implemented. The formalism and dogmatism of the European Commission therefore appear, once again, in perfect contrast with the general interest, the demands of economic rationality and the promotion of common goods. It is up to the Government to assume its responsibilities and defend a strong alternative to competition in Brussels. The treaties allow our country to organize the provision of services as services of general economic interest, whether or not with an exclusive or special right of management or exploitation, subject to compliance with the provisions on abuse of dominant position. We favour this option, the seriousness of which has been established by the excellent work of expertise led by the CGT Mines Energy. Today, there is no prohibition on designating hydroelectric production as a service of general economic interest. While services of general economic interest were initially conceived as the exception to a rule, that of the application of competition law, Member States retain a major role in determining tasks of general interest and in classifying certain activities as services of general economic interest. Control by the European Commission and the European Court of Justice of the definition of the task is, in fact, limited to the limited control of the manifest error of assessment and the presence of three cumulative criteria: the economic nature of the activity, its character in the general interest and a precise definition of the public service tasks entrusted by law or regulation to the undertakings managing it. The qualification of the operation of hydroelectric works in service of general economic interest is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition to protect these works and their exploitation from the logic of competition. In addition, an exclusive or special right must be granted to the undertakings which manage and operate it and, to this end, it must be demonstrated that the successful fulfilment of the general interest tasks related to hydropower requires the appointment of one or more operators, who alone are able to carry out these tasks. In this respect, we consider that the historical operators of Électricité de France, the public limited company of general interest Compagnie nationale du Rhône and the Société hydropower du Midi, are the only ones to offer sufficient guarantees to manage the security risks, support the economy and employment and take into account the diversity of uses of the water resource. They are also the only ones to be able to follow long-term logics and lead the necessary investments to increase our hydropower capacity. We have an additional 6000 megawatts of potential depending on the employees, according to the Government. In the face of the risks posed by competition for the optimisation, use and advantages of the French hydropower system, including in terms of tariffs for consumers, the French authorities must argue in favour of a derogation from the principle of competition. The practical simplicity of a solution based on the existing one and its interest in French energy policy justify defending it before the European Commission. This is clearly a question of political will, which we doubt today. In any event, the GDR Group expects the Government to clarify its position. The opening up of hydroelectric concessions to competition does not only meet the opposition of the employees of the companies, attached to the public nature of the developments, but of all those who, in our country, are attached to the public service and do not want to deliver this element of our common heritage and sovereignty to wholly private energy companies or to mixed-economy companies where the public authorities would be minority. The planned dismantling of this precious production package built over the decades is not acceptable, as it is not acceptable that the concern for profitability outweighs the general interest and the wide variety of uses and issues surrounding our facilities. While global warming calls for better coordination around water management and a new ambition for the development of renewable energy, it appears necessary for the Government to radically change its policies. It also seems essential that trade unions and parliamentarians be informed of the content of the mission letter addressed to Jean-Bernard Lévy on the future of the EDF group, which in fact concerns a large part of the hydraulic production fleet. Employees and parliamentarians cannot be held hostage to decisions that are behind their backs. We demand that the Government now make clear its intentions in full transparency. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups, as well as on several benches of the LT and LR groups]] That is why we will propose to the various groups of our Assembly, in the sequence that is beginning, to co-build a formalised parliamentary initiative that brings together the joint wills for a sustainable and controlled solution of French hydropower operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u3	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u4	Now is the time to defend the territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u5	To talk about the future of the hydroelectric sector is to ask the question of the energy transition and the energy independence of our country. Hydroelectricity is the first renewable electricity source in France. It accounts for about 12% of electricity generation, compared with 5% for wind and 2% for solar. These figures alone show how little is known about this form of energy, which is nevertheless at the heart of our economy and represents for France a potential for excellence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u8	Indeed, the wealth of the mountainous mountains of our country opens up great hydroelectric capacities: the Alps, the Pyrenees of my colleague Jeanine Dubie, the Corsica of my parliamentary friends, which is an island-mountain, the Central Massif are powerful hydroelectric territories. You yourself, Madam Secretary of State, come from an electoral district fed by the Verdon hydroelectric system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u9	What a chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u10	Our fellow citizens know little about this, but hydropower accounts for more than 12% of French electricity production, making our country the third largest European country in this field, behind Norway and Sweden. We are ranked fifteenth in the world. Hydroelectricity remains the cheapest mode of production, the one which limits the most, and by far, the additional costs of generating electricity. Moreover, with a mountain-shaped castle in the middle of the Mediterranean like Corsica, hydropower can help this island become autonomous in energy. This entirely renewable energy has a special feature: it allows the storage of potential energy in the form of water reserves, which can then be converted flexibly and rapidly into electricity. As we know, access to water is another of the major challenges of the twenty-first century. In France, all reservoirs account for 7 billion cubic metres of water that can be used for agriculture, drinking water, industry or leisure activities. The works also contribute to the prevention of risks, for example for flood mitigation – thus reducing the risk of flooding by 20 to 40 centimetres in a city like Auxerre, and by several centimetres in a city like Paris. The responsibility for these water reserves gives EDF a major role in the management of the resource. In some valleys, hydropower is even the last industrial activity present, thus playing an important role in spatial planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u12	The Liberties and Territories Group is, as its name indicates, particularly attached to this aspect. A recent parliamentary report, due to our colleague Adrien Morenas, pointed to the significant cost of restoring ecological continuity: investments of around €40 million per year, resulting in a recurrent loss of production estimated at €80 million per year, a total cost of €120 million per year. In the continuation of our debate, my colleague Jeanine Dubie will ask you on behalf of the Libertés et territoires Group, the Secretary of State, about opening up to competition. There is, I believe, a strategic axis on which France must remain incomparable. However, it must be noted that the French State has not always fulfilled its obligations towards its historical partner: navigation on the Rhine is for EDF a financial abyss. However, France has never compensated for the cost of the concession. The operating costs directly related to this navigation service are of the order of EUR 14 million per year. We need to speak a language of truth. The question of compensation for public service charges must be raised in the context of the renewal of concessions. In fact, 20% of the power of the park is coming to an end, and by 2023 the renewal will cover 150 developments; It will concern all hydraulic regions, without the right of preference provided for by the 1919 law being able to play, since it has been abolished in order to satisfy the requests of the European Commission. It now requires the systematic organisation of competition in the procedures for the renewal of hydro-electric concessions. It must be noted that, since Emmanuel Macron's arrival as President of the Republic, things seem to be speeding up and the competition coming closer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u13	It's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u14	I will not go back here to the forthcoming privatisations of Paris and French Games Airports; But this government continues to take the risk of stalling our services of excellence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u16	The Libertés et Territoires Group is committed to the energy sovereignty of our country, and is concerned about our know-how; We will not be able to remain silent in the face of these crucial issues. It is also important to remember the importance of hydroelectric infrastructure. It is a source of electrical energy, of course, but it also provides great answers to the challenges of the 21st century: shared water management, biodiversity management, circular economy and resource economy, landscape planning in the world's first country for tourism. We must preserve this "at the same time": to secure our energy sovereignty while answering these new questions. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC and LR groups and on several benches of the GDR group]] I will allow my colleague Jeanine Dubie to elaborate on this subject, but in the meantime, I wanted, by involving all my colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group, to say again how important it is for us to quickly enter into the energy of the 21st century: in this sense, hydropower represents an economic, but also a social and environmental opportunity of first order. Let's be careful not to make the wrong choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u17	[[Smile]] There's a speaker who has put out a great energy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u18	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u19	We are given the opportunity by the GDR Group to discuss the future of the hydroelectric sector, in my view too few discussions between us. However, hydropower, the main source of renewable energy, plays a major role in France's energy transition. It is a strategic energy source for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u21	Thanks to its storage capacity, it is possible to balance the national and European electricity grid effectively. It's even more than that, because hydraulic dams shape our territories. They are part of their history and have a fundamental place in their development, in the mountains and in rural areas. Attention is focused on the issue of the renewal of hydro-electric concessions. French law in force, in accordance with European law, provides that hydro-electric concessions which have expired must be renewed by way of competition. This is not a new will: the principle has been established by the previous majorities. It has been in place since 2006, and the Energy Transition Act 2015 has created new tools to facilitate renewal. Since the notice of the European Commission in 2015, however, no agreement has been reached. Approximately 150 out of 400 concessions are due to expire before 2023. However, the process is blocked. On the ground, the concerns of employees, elected officials and the territories are acute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u22	Rightfully!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u23	Negotiations must continue in accordance with the red lines: renewal of the only expired concessions and equal competition. An advance must be noted, since the possibility for EDF to compete seems to be acceptable. I also take the opportunity to fight some misconceptions often heard. Thus, the concession regime means that there will be no privatisation of the dams: the State is and will remain the owner of the works, and the operation will be supervised by a specification. The takeover of existing staff is guaranteed by the 2015 Act. Re-competitiveness will allow us to optimize the management of our dams and re-launch the long-awaited investment, while redistributing financial resources to the territories. However – I stress this point – renewals must be well prepared, hand in hand with the communities and territories, to take into account the local specificities and the complexity of the hydraulic subject. Elected from a mountain riding, I know the importance of the consultation that hydroelectricians lead with local actors, in view of the crucial issues that exist in the valleys, around the power stations: conciliation with fishing and water sports, regular dialogue with environmental associations, contribution to the production of crop snow for ski resorts, not to mention the participation in the support of stretches, a major issue in the context of global warming, in particular to coordinate irrigation needs. The historic heritage of the dams must also be taken into account: links with the territories, but also jobs. I am thinking in particular of relations with subcontractors. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Secretary of State, to this real complexity which will have to be incorporated into the specifications, both to define the stakes and to monitor the concession. This complexity also calls for reflection on the establishment of partnership arrangements in the territories, in particular between the economic operator, which could remain the majority, and other public actors that could be present in the capital – in particular the communities. In conclusion, I would like to return to the development potential of this sector: it exists, but it is insufficiently valued in our energy policy. In the territories, beyond the existing concessions, new projects of power plants demand to exist; economic operators and communities have the power to propose. Why not launch public initiatives, such as calls for tenders, to enable them to emerge? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us also consider enhancing and strengthening the scientific and technical skills of operators to ensure their research and development and innovation capabilities. As the first source of renewable energy, hydropower is also a strategic future energy for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u24	Mr Martial Saddier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u25	Hydroelectricity is still the first renewable electricity, and above all the second largest source of French electricity production, with an average of 67 terawatt hours, i.e. the consumption of more than 9 million people. The Rhône-Mediterranean basin produces no less than 60% of the national hydroelectric power. This energy has given rise to fabulous adventures: I am thinking, for example, of the Compagnie nationale du Rhône, the famous CNR, created in this very Chamber. At the time, not only hydropower was mentioned, but also the many uses of water. Unlike electricity that cannot be stored, hydropower can be easily mobilised – within ten to fifteen minutes – in the event of peak consumption, especially in the winter, or in the event of incidents on the electricity grid. Major research projects on electricity storage, on batteries are now being funded. But the first big batteries are the dams! Pumping energy transfer stations – STEP – can fill reservoirs, for example at night, and store electricity. If the construction of the large dams initially aimed at electricity generation, the times have changed! Hydropower also plays an important role in water resource management. Long pointed out for its consequences on the natural environment, the sector today takes into account the protection of aquatic environments, for example: fish passes; river crossing devices; reserved flow delivery – and constraints in this area have been reinforced during previous legislatures; participation in plans to restore endangered fish species... I could still talk about the management of solid materials, in order to preserve the profile along the river, the securing of water discharges, the management of the flows of stretch, already mentioned, the supply of drinking water, or, which is very little known, the role of a flood trap, for example where cevenol events occur, which is absolutely essential in order to cope with the change of our climate. These are all actions that have arisen over time and are now being carried out in close association with local and regional authorities. Of course, we want the specifications, if there is to be competition, to incorporate all these issues, gradually taken into account by the historical operator in recent decades. The Republican Group is first of all defending the modernization of these facilities: we could thus improve our hydroelectric potential. We want, on a case-by-case basis, when local actors, including environmental actors, accept this, the further development of hydropower. As in many sectors, tax and environmental standards are on the rise: today, taxation accounts for one third of the cost of hydropower. However, we wish to develop it whenever possible. The water planning and management schemes – SAGE – and the local water commissions – CLE – allow the necessary balances to be found with the environmental associations. The Republican Group regrets that the multi-annual energy programming project – PPE – only provides for an additional 1 gigawatt hour by 2038, while the potential is estimated to be at least 2 gigawatt hours. Finally, like others of our colleagues, I would like to address the issue of the renewal of hydro-electric concessions. The opening up to competition should not lead to a multiplication of actors, and thus to the dismantling of hydroelectric production, even though this sector is one of our flagships. Nor should it put an end to the coordinated management of water resources and the efforts already made in this area. How can we not fear that some new concessionaires are more interested in the profitability of their investments than in the overall management of water and above all in the security of the works?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u26	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u27	We ask very clearly that, in view of the changing climate, and in particular its impact on water, large water reservoirs be considered a strategic heritage of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u29	The hydroelectric sector must be seen as a major industrial sector, and its potential for the future – due in particular to the fantastic human capital developed for more than fifty years in our country – must be recognised. Management must take place at the watershed level: it is not possible, Madam Secretary of State, for dangerous rivers to be watered, if you allow me to speak. France cannot be the only country, in Europe and almost in the world, that is braving its hydroelectric potential. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups, as well as on several benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Elections will be held in a few weeks. The position of the Republican Group is very clear on these points.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u30	On these matters, it is better to trust the Communists! It's more sustainable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u31	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u32	First of all, on behalf of the MODEM Group, let me thank the GDR Group for the opportunity it gives us to discuss hydropower, one of the major components – and perhaps the main one – of a sustainable energy mix. I will distinguish between two issues relating to the production of hydraulic energy: first, that of the renewal of concessions whose power is greater than 4.5 megawatts; Secondly, the development potential of small hydropower. Hydropower concessions with a power of more than 4.5 megawatts must be put into competition, as European law requires. I will not go back to the context, the outline of which has already been set out. However, we need to re-establish some truths, because while it is conceivable to criticize the obligation to compete, it is quite incorrect to talk about privatisation. In fact, the renewal of concessions in no way alters the ownership of the works, hence their membership in the public domain. Moreover, it is pointless to condemn in principle the foundations of free competition. Let us be more interested in the present case, in what it has of singularity, in its particular characteristics and stakes. The competition for hydroelectric concessions must be assessed in the light of the general interest and the requirements of the public service. In that capacity, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to hear from you on a number of points that raise questions. Is competition thought in the interests of the consumer? In other words, isn't the increase in operators in the hydraulic sector likely to raise electricity prices? Is the competition carried out in the interest of the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u33	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u34	So what is the expected financial cost of transferring concessions to other operators? Does competition also respect the interests of the citizen?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u35	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u36	This is about the nation's energy independence, the necessarily public control of common goods and the role of the state in implementing the energy transition. Finally, is competition likely to upset the rights of water users?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u37	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u38	Beyond energy considerations, water management is of interest, for example, to the future of nautical activities established downstream and upstream. In short, Madam Secretary of State, it is important that you can reassure all players in the sector of the expected benefits of opening up hydropower concessions to competition, particularly in terms of investment and economic recovery, as well as those who see it as a dismantling of the public service. There is even greater concern as the Green Growth Energy Transition Act offers several opportunities to address this demand for competition. This has been said, in particular, of the extension of construction-conditional concessions, which could make it possible to take into account the investments made for the modernization of the works. There is also a need to distinguish between large and small hydropower. If we consider this set, we have here a panel of actors, which questions EDF's dominant position. I therefore come to my second point, concerning the potential of small hydropower, and in particular hydropower. Multi-annual energy programming is largely disinterested, as technology is not yet mature and no sector is currently sufficiently structured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u39	Ask the Scots!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u40	This is reflected in the early closure by Naval Group of its Cherbourg site in 2018. However, projects are being carried out and experiments are under way – on the Étel river or on the Rhône, near Lyon. Both experiments are financially supported by the European Union across the regions. So how can we support this industry? Could we not, for example, simplify the procedures and grant a more attractive electricity tariff, says H16? The same applies to small hydropower in general, in particular low drop through rivers, for which innovative and validated solutions now exist, in particular to preserve ecological continuity and fish passages. It is also ignored by the EPP, while it represents a considerable energy potential, highlighted in 2006 by the Dambrine report, which has not yet been implemented. For example, mill associations assessed the production potential of water mills alone at the equivalent of half a nuclear reactor. For my part, I am convinced that hydro-electricity and small hydro-electricity can contribute to the energy autonomy of areas not interconnected to the electricity grid, such as the islands of the metropolis and overseas. Some islands are still very dependent on oil and are trying to get rid of it – I am thinking of Molène, Sein, Ouessant. In addition to supporting the energy transition, these energy sources would have the enormous advantage of blending into the landscape and, unlike wind energy, escaping the just constraints of the coastal law. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr Martial Saddier also applauds]] Thus, Madam Secretary of State, it is important for France to grant through you, while taking into account the lessons of the failure of Cherbourg, its assistance in the development of hydraulic energy, which represents a formidable maritime energy in the energy mix, especially in non-interconnected areas and in export.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u41	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u42	First of all, I would like to thank the GDR Group for offering this debate on the future of the hydroelectric sector to the House's agenda. Some may judge this technical subject, anecdotal or remote from the daily concerns expressed by the French, especially during this period of social and democratic emergency. For my part, I have the weakness to think that this is an eminently political debate, in the noblest sense of the word, determining both in substance and in form. Not only does this substantive debate affect the daily lives of the French and questions our vision of the energy transition, therefore of the future, but it is also revealing the way in which we conceive public action. In recent years, our Assembly has dealt with this issue on several occasions. In each of our debates, without dogmatism, we have concluded that the public utility of hydropower is important, that there is a need for the safety of all and that water control is of paramount importance. Every time, far beyond our political sensitivities, we have recalled that hydropower is both a national heritage as well as an opportunity for the French energy mix and the energy transition. All of this we said on the occasion of the information report of the Committee on Economic Affairs on hydropower, which I presented with my colleague Eric Straumann in 2013. We recalled this in the Energy Transition for Green Growth Act, adopted in 2015. And we reaffirmed it again in 2018 before the Committee on Economic Affairs, presenting the conclusions of the working group on hydro-electric concessions that I had the honour of chairing. So I will only briefly go back to what seems to sound to many as obvious: maintaining the public nature of our hydro-electric concessions is a necessity. If we are to safeguard the public nature of this heritage, it is not only because hydropower is virtuous, because it is the first source of renewable energy generation; This is not only because it helps to balance the energy mix, but also increases the share of renewable energy, or because it represents 25,000 direct and indirect jobs; It is not only because we have a duty to manage floods, to ensure the safety of residents and thousands of people who inhabit watersheds; It is not only for its storage capacity and flexibility, which are essential for the integration of other clean energies, all intermittent; It is not just because it allows us to contribute to the energy independence of our country. This is of course for all this, but also for the public water service, the multi-use of water and the proper roles of dams in our territories. Hydroelectricity plays a crucial role in the multi-use of water, in agricultural irrigation, in support of stretching, or in tourism. I have already written it, I have already said it, and I repeat it very strongly here: dealing with the management of concessions from the point of view of energy production alone would be a mistake. On the contrary, account must be taken of all the aspects it concerns, including the common good of water. We must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen: while everyone recognizes the need to increase the share of renewables in our energy mix, is it serious that our country should separate itself from the public management of hydroelectric power? Is it acceptable to give the keys to our safety, to the use of water, to companies whose search for profitability would be ill-suited to the general interest? Is it fair, finally, to open competitive procedures which are not based on any principle of reciprocity? Would we agree to entrust the operation of our works to foreign companies, even though in their countries of origin our French companies would not be allowed to compete? No one really seems to be challenging that. We should therefore not have too much difficulty in drawing common conclusions and proposing, all together, in a proactive manner, solutions to keep these concessions in the public domain and not to engage in competition. Hydroelectricity, which is based on the two common goods of water and energy, is more a matter of public service than of merchant service. It's obvious. On the other hand, the demand to our country is less and less justified. It is based on the denunciation of EDF's dominant position, which is effectively reduced every month with the opening up of the retail market and the rise of renewable energy sources, driven mainly by competing operators, which mechanically reduces its market share. In conclusion, Madam Secretary of State, I would like us to agree here that the competition of our dams is not inevitable. It is not for us to say that the fight would be won in advance or that the will of the French Republic would suffice to convince the European authorities. We Socialists remain convinced that, in order to be won, the fight for the public energy service must be waged. We refuse to lower the guard or accept this dogmatic fatality. We refuse to content ourselves with government vigilance, which would make a package competition a victory to "limit social degradation". [[Applause on the SOC, GDR, LT and LR benches]] We refuse to take the responsibility to weaken a world-renowned industry, carried by our historical operators, which has demonstrated its energy efficiency and which remains a showcase of French industrial and energy excellence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u43	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u44	Our session this evening is indeed about the future of hydropower in our country. As my colleagues have said, this is not a minor subject. Hydroelectricity is an important part of the French electricity mix, accounting for 10% to 12% of electricity at national level and 61% of electricity produced from renewable energies in France. This makes it the first renewable source of electricity, with wind accounting for only 5% of electricity in France, solar 2% and bioenergy 1.5%. On a European scale, hydropower covers 16% of electricity needs, making France one of the first European producing countries, after Norway. Our country has 2300 hydro-electric concessions of a wide variety of size and power: 40% of hydro-electricity is provided by structures installed on the lakes; 26% by pumping energy transfer stations. The main objective of the multiannual energy programming is to develop the production of the existing water supply and to extend it with the installation of hydropower plants on existing dams, but which are not yet equipped with them. However, the hydroelectric sector still faces some difficulties, which hinder its development. With regard to European legislation, first of all, the Water Framework Directive, adopted in 2000 and transposed in 2004 into French law, had a strong impact on the protection of watercourses, with many of them classified on List 1, which prohibits the degradation of ecological continuity by creating new obstacles to this continuity. These environmental regulations block many hydroelectric projects in our territory. As has been said, opening up hydroelectric concessions to competition is also a barrier to the development of new hydroelectric projects. 150 of them will expire by 2023 and the change of dealership raises many concerns, particularly among the employees of these concessions, in a sector that employs 25,000 people in our territory. It is imperative to break out of this stalemate in order to remove a major obstacle to the installation of new hydroelectric projects, as this climate of concern does not encourage their development. Those involved in the hydroelectric sector have also been subject to an increase in local taxes for several years. The latter were able to increase by 10 euros per megawatt hour, which corresponds to a third of the selling price, even though the price of electricity has fallen by 30 % since 2010. Finally, the hydroelectric sector experienced an 18% decrease in production in 2017, due to an average water deficit of more than 10% in the territory compared to the previous year. Thus, falling rainfall, falling electricity prices, but also pressure from taxation and environmental regulations are all obstacles to the production of hydropower in our territory. There is therefore a need for greater coherence among all actors for optimal development. The development of hydropower in our territory also requires an increase in the number of small and micro-hydropower plants. The so-called small- and micro-hydroelectricity can be defined as the production of clean electricity, free of waste in watercourses, no air pollution, no CO emissions, and no water consumption thanks to the turbinage of the water. The law allows everyone to operate a small hydropower plant for their own electricity consumption or for sale. Micro-hydropower plants adapt to both a point of water and a river or private stream and produce stable electricity. While investment in a micro-central can be costly, it is cost-effective over the long term as the turbines used resist decades without having to be changed. However, the regulatory and procedural barriers are now insurmountable. In my town of Châlons-en-Champagne, it took two and a half years to obtain permission to install a micro-hydropower plant. Since, through multi-year energy programming, the Government has committed itself to achieving 40% renewable energy in the electricity mix, it would be wise to further encourage the development of small and micro-hydropower by facilitating procedures and removing the barriers you have certainly identified. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, MODEM and LR groups]] It seems important to multiply the sources of hydropower and to allow its development by reassuring the actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u45	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u46	Can we still believe the saving virtues of the privatization of our public goods through public-private installations? Can we still believe it for a moment? Hydropower sites represent the limit not to be crossed: the transfer to private companies of a profitable infrastructure that we have collectively financed is an economic and ecological impasse. Currently, 662 dams store 75% of the surface freshwater reserves. First renewable energy source, they produce 12% of the electricity in our territory and total 2.5 billion euros per year of gross surplus. In addition, hydropower is at the heart of an eco-dynamic system in several regions of France. It is inextricably linked to agriculture, industry, tourism and essential for the provision of drinking water. It is therefore a highly strategic sector. Your so-called ecological transition is based on electricity. Let us move on to the technical and economic problems to the question of electricity. A fleet of 36 million all-electric vehicles would require the equivalent of the generation of electricity from ten to fifteen nuclear reactors according to the calculations of the ADEME – Agency for the Environment and Energy Control. How can you consider privatizing the first source of renewable electricity while wanting the development of electric cars and the reduction of the share of nuclear power?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u48	After decades of negotiations with Brussels, you have not simply given in, you have ahead of European demands. Where the previous governments were slowing down, you jump on foot together. However, you could have followed Slovenia's example by including dams as a major public water service in the Constitution in order to avoid interference by the Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u49	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u50	For you, it was too much; The abuse of EDF's dominant position, which was incompatible with Article 106 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, had to be stopped. But the climax is that the first lot concerns the most profitable dams – and from the outset, you're preventing EDF from running for more than 60% of a hydroelectric lot. For information, EDF invests EUR 400 million each year in the strengthening of facilities. To exclude the public enterprise from a large number of tenders is to dispense with a seventy-five-year field experience and maximize disaster risk. Placing dam management on operators will have many negative consequences. As usual, you try to make a double speech. Mr Macron, in his letter to the citizens of Europe, said that he wanted to "recast our trade policy: sanctioning or prohibiting companies in Europe that harm our strategic interests and core values, such as environmental standards, data protection and fair tax payment". No one but you harms our strategic interests. The myth of the benefits of privatization does not deceive anyone, especially in the field of hydropower. Even a country like the United States, which is at the forefront of economic liberalism, has returned to its choice by abandoning the liberalization of the management of hydroelectric dams. Just look at the experience of your predecessors on these privatization exercises to understand that all this results in a loss of purchasing power for our fellow citizens. Take the example of the privatisation of motorways in 2006 for the benefit of Vinci, Eiffage, etc. Profitability is breaking records. Concessions account for between 20% and 24% of the turnover of these companies. They allowed their shareholders to cash 14.9 billion euros in dividends between 2006 and 2013. In 2014, the Autorité de la concurrence considered that this "exceptional profitability did not appear justified either by their costs or by the risks to which they are exposed". It called for the revision of the mechanism for indexing toll rates – which had increased sharply – and the obligation for motorway companies to reinvest their profits and share them with the State. But this is impossible because concessions expire between 2027 and 2035. The State has no means of exerting pressure, since the contracts signed benefit private companies. It is a liquidation of our public services that you orchestrate to the detriment of the general interest: airports, highways, parking, ports, train and now the dams.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u52	It's a macronian disease!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u53	The climate changes announced in the coming decades will make water a source of tension. They will place long-term constraints on water resources, particularly as a result of droughts. How are we going to ensure a water supply at a fair cost to our citizens as the private operator seeks to maximize its gains in a climate change context?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u54	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u55	[[Applause on the benches of groups FI, GDR, SOC and LR]] In France's view, the increase in motorway prices is a perfect example of the fact that the logic of privatizing public goods constitutes a fundamental attack on the vital interests of our country, our fellow citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u56	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u57	As you know, the Government fully supports hydropower production for a simple reason, which you have all stressed: it is our first source of renewable electricity generation. Hydroelectricity is essential both for the national electricity system, for our renewable energy objectives and for local economic development. The recent review of 2018 published by TEN indicates that hydropower has produced 68 terawatt hours, equivalent to 14% of our electricity consumption. Maintaining and developing this resource, while respecting environmental challenges, is therefore essential to achieving the ambitious energy and climate goals that our country has set itself. The draft revision of the EPP gives visibility to the development of this sector, first by taking stock of the remaining technical potential and, above all, by setting ambitious development objectives. The Government hopes to achieve the target of 26.4 to 26.7 gigawatts of installed capacity by 2028. These objectives must be achieved by optimising and over-equiping existing dams, but also, to a lesser extent, by equipping a few new sites with less power. I am thinking in particular of small hydropower, which is the subject of constant support from the Government, on the one hand, by a tariff order for the smallest installations and, on the other hand, by tenders of 35 megawatts, issued each year by the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. But the main challenge for the sector remains the renewal of hydro-electric concessions. Unlike other countries where hydroelectric facilities are owned by private operators, in France, large facilities are operated under the concession regime. This regime allows strong control through the regulation and contract signed between the State and the concessionaire, thus guaranteeing respect for the public interest. French law, in accordance with European law, provides that hydro-electric concessions which have expired must be renewed by way of competition. The law of energy transition...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u58	That you don't respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u59	..., voted under the previous government, with the support of Members present here, has introduced several measures capable of ensuring respect for the public interest during these renewals. I am thinking in particular of the possibility for local authorities to be involved in the concession within the framework of a mixed hydropower economy company...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u60	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u61	...but also to the option of pooling concessions to facilitate their operation, or to provisions to protect employees from concessions. As you are aware, as you have all recalled, in 2015 the European Commission issued a formal notice to the French authorities concerning hydro-electric concessions. Successive governments have challenged the foundations of this legal challenge...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u62	They were right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u63	...but have held numerous exchanges with the European Commission in order to achieve a shared and balanced solution. The Commission has not validated the various proposals made, nor has it made any counter-proposals which we may find acceptable. Nevertheless, the Government wishes to continue discussions in the same spirit, taking into account all the issues and the public interest. The aim is to get out of the status quo, because today it affects investments in the sector and is a source of uncertainty for businesses, employees and communities. But this requires a balanced approach, respectful of points that are intangible to us. Thus, EDF cannot be prohibited from applying for renewal of its own concessions, from discouraging it, or from competing with unmatured concessions. As you will understand, renewal of concessions is a national policy that we want to pursue strategically. These include optimizing the management of our dams and relaunching investment, while redistributed financial resources to the territories through new royalties. It should not be forgotten that the dams belong to the State and will remain the property of the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u64	But we have to maintain them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u65	Finally, I am aware that concerns are emerging among employees and some elected officials. I would therefore like to reassure you of our approach. On the one hand, we will endeavour to inform actors regularly about the progress of the discussions, and on the other hand, we will ensure that this process cannot lead to social or territorial degradation. I would add that security concerns are fundamental to us and will remain so. Moreover, a demanding regulation already applies, under the control of the State, through the DREAL – Regional Directorates of the Environment, Planning and Housing. It will remain an imperative, a non-negotiable prerequisite. It was also reinforced by a national ministerial decree adopted last year. The terms of reference of the concessions make it possible to take into account the issues of general interest relating to the use of water, the support of stretching, the protection of the environment. This is an imperative of the state, and we want to involve communities closely. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is under these conditions, and only under these conditions, that hydropower can play its full role in the energy transition and the development of the territories. I know that you share the concerns of the Government here. This is a matter of defending the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u66	We come to the questions. Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u67	While the previous governments have all sought to save time in the face of the pressures of Brussels – I am thinking in particular of Delphine Batho's relevant proposal to set up mixed-economy companies to exploit our dams – you are about to bend money under Europe by opening up our 150 largest hydropower plants to competition. I will not recall the figures, others have already done so before me. On the other hand, I would like to express my deep opposition to what is very much a strategic and economic nonsense: you are counting only EUR 520 million in annual royalties, whereas the annual gross surplus of concessions is currently EUR 2.5 billion, half of which is the responsibility of the local authorities. In reality, the proposed reforms will divide the money that enters the public funds by five. And I thank you for the safety issues raised, while many books present serious risks, often because of their old age. Will investors want to invest to maintain them properly, knowing that EDF spends 400 million euros a year to strengthen its works? There is cause for concern when one sees the operation of the vast majority of infrastructures whose management and maintenance have been entrusted to private actors, including water supply networks and motorways. As far as Guyana is concerned, I am particularly concerned about the Petit-Saut dam, the first one in France by the surface of flooding, which feeds three quarters of the coastal fires and accounts for 55% of the territory's electricity production. Its production costs are the highest in France. Can you tell me, Madam Secretary of State, whether the proposal to open up to competition also concerns works located overseas? If so, what about the future of the Petit-Saut dam? Moreover, since we are debating the future of the hydroelectric sector this evening, can you tell us your position on the project, ecocide, of a second hydroelectric dam in Guyana?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u68	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u69	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] I wonder if you were present in the Chamber, Mr Serville, when I delivered my introductory speech... I'm not gonna take it back. I advise you to listen to it again, which will allow us to start the discussion on a good basis. Hydroelectricity already plays a very important role in Guyana, since it accounts for more than half of the territory's electricity production, thanks in particular to the large dam at Petit-Saut. A second large hydroelectric dam would be of interest to the Guyanese electricity system, but its environmental impact should be given special attention, given the specific challenges of the territory. This is why Guyana's current multiannual energy programme provides for studies on the technical potential of hydropower and a study on the advisability of a second large dam "in view of the development dynamics of the territory and its environmental, social and economic impacts". State services will support the territorial community in carrying out these studies and in any follow-up to them. As you know, MP, you can discuss this issue with the Department of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. For the rest, I invite you to refer to my introductory statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u70	Stay Zen, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u71	You're answering an elected man!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u73	Stay in the Chamber, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u74	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u75	The advantages of the hydroelectric industry are no longer to be demonstrated. Previous speakers reminded them: this is the first renewable energy; dams contribute to maintaining the stretch of rivers, securing floods, and storing water. Moreover, it is a crucial sector for some mountain areas, particularly in terms of employment and planning. This sector is experiencing major innovations aimed at improving the flexibility or management of electricity storage. These involve massive and long-term investments. That has been said, many of the concessions granted to the 20th century mitan, largely to EDF, have expired or will reach them within the next ten years. This is a result of the liberalisation of the sector and the opening up of the European electricity market to competition. The dossier constitutes a point of friction between Paris and Brussels. For almost six years, we have regularly reminded this House that hydropower, the first renewable energy, which is too little considered, is an energy asset. I commend the remarkable work done by Marie-Noëlle Battistel on this subject and the consistency with which it defends this strategic industrial sector, which belongs to the national heritage. The Government is continuing negotiations with Brussels on opening up hydro-electric concessions to competition. What about these deals, which are worrying in our territories? How long do you think you'll be able to complete them? We know that private operators, in particular foreign operators, are lurking on these concessions. Brussels seems to want the incumbent, EDF, not to be able to apply for the renewal of all the concessions. Is that true?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u76	She's asking specific questions, she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u77	[[Applause on the benches of the LT and FI groups. – Mrs. Émilie Bonnivard also applauds]] It seems irrelevant, if not irresponsible, to open up such a strategic sector to competition. We are committed to our model of public energy service. What's your model, Madam Secretary of State? How do you envisage ensuring the proper management of our hydroelectric industry in terms of energy safety and security?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u78	[[Smile]] Another MP who didn't listen to what Mrs. Poirson said...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u79	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u80	I know that you, Mr Lecoq, have listened to me and I am delighted to see that you are very attentive to everything I say! You asked me, Mrs Dubie, about the state of negotiations between the Government and the European Commission. As you know, the Commission has given us a formal notice on hydroelectric concessions, which successive governments have challenged. We continue to discuss with her in order to find common ground. It has been, as you know, particularly vehement towards us. For our part, we wish to ensure that the provisions of French law are applied in a balanced manner. We have submitted several proposals, which have not been validated. For its part, the Commission has not put forward an alternative proposal. We are therefore continuing our discussions with it, with the objective of getting out of the status quo, as it affects investments in the sector and raises questions from communities, those working for hydroelectric dams and local populations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u81	We can do what we want! He'll see what happens! A little courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u82	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u83	With regard to the renewal of hydraulic concessions, it should be recalled that the main focus of the competition is on know-how held by employees attached to the hydraulic works. If we break EDF's quasi-monopoly in the production of hydraulic energy, what will happen to employees directly or indirectly attached to the structure? How do you legally qualify the criterion of "equivalent employment" that the future concessionaire will have to offer to employees? Is France not likely to lose its know-how and thus, de facto, its energy independence?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u85	Moreover, since the Energy Regulatory Commission has no jurisdiction over hydro-electric concessions, what guarantees will the Government provide to its historical operator, EDF, that it will not be penalized in the competition of the concessions? In other words, how can we legally protect EDF's applications for future tenders, knowing that the State is both the owner of the hydroelectric works, the granting authority, the organiser of tenders and the majority shareholder of the incumbent operator? Is the administrative judge not likely to accept appeals based on the assumption of a conflict of interest? Why not give an organizing role to the Energy Regulatory Commission, such as for onshore and offshore photovoltaic or wind energy tenders, in order to ensure the independent management of hydraulic tenders? France has the chance to benefit from more than 2300 hydraulic installations, which make this "white coal" the first renewable energy source. It would be a shame if competition would crystallize tensions on one of the few sources of energy that makes consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u86	[[Smile]] Mrs Kerbarh was also present in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u87	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u88	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] Maybe we're going to pour out the whole evening in a certain repetition comic... As I had the opportunity to recall, the Government fully supports hydroelectric production. He is convinced of the strategic importance of the sector, both at national and territorial level. I also pointed out that the French hydropower model ensured that the public interest was respected when the hydropower concessions were renewed. In particular, as you pointed out, the law provides for protective measures for employees of hydro-electric concessions, which ensure that their status is maintained and that they are taken over by the new concessionaire under equivalent conditions. The concept of equivalence is of particular importance to us, as the employees concerned must be offered employment by the new concessionaire with responsibilities, remuneration and benefits similar to those attached to their current employment. Of course, discussions will take place between staff, the outgoing concessionaire and the incoming concessionaire to determine the practical arrangements for resumption, but the provisions I have cited are important guarantees. The State will pay particular attention to this when the time comes. With regard to the second point you raised, I recalled that there can be no question of prohibiting EDF from applying for the renewal of its own concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u89	Of all his concessions?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u90	We have told the European Commission. On the other hand, it is not possible to entrust to the Energy Regulatory Commission the responsibility for granting concessions. In the case of other energy sources, competition shall be limited to the benefit of tariff support granted to private installations. In the present case, it is a matter of entrusting, within the framework of a concession, the exploitation of public goods under conditions which respect the public interests, both national and local, which go far beyond the sphere of competence of the regulator. Depending on the size of the concession, the granting procedures are the responsibility of the prefect or the minister responsible for energy. They are regulated by provisions of the Energy Code aimed at ensuring their complete impartiality and legal certainty. It is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u91	It's still not clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u92	Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u93	My question concerns the obstacles to the development of the hydroelectric sector in France. Hydroelectricity is by far the first renewable electricity generation sector in France and around the world. However, there are still many barriers that weaken existing facilities or hinder the development of new ones. In particular, they are regulatory in nature, e.g. in environmental matters. First of all, the compliance of hydroelectric works with respect to ecological continuity entails abyssal costs for operators. The cost of environmental equipment seems disproportionate to the supposed ecological gains. In addition, there is relative instability, complexity and administrative burden. For example, new equipment or changes to existing equipment may be imposed on works. The hydroelectric sector then seems to be the subject of a "charge" policy: works are condemned to absconding; the renewal of authorisations is an opportunity for administrative litigation; administrative procedures for the development of new projects are lengthy and considered too cumbersome. Finally, local taxation has a significant impact on hydropower facilities. The development of hydropower in France and Europe is undoubtedly a major response to environmental problems, in particular for the maintenance of river continuity and the preservation of biodiversity. What measures is the Government planning to take to promote the modernization and optimal development of the sector in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u94	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u95	As you have pointed out, it is important that hydropower develops in accordance with the objectives of good water condition and biodiversity recovery. For several years, as you said, many producers have made significant efforts to improve the environmental quality of their facility, including ensuring ecological continuity. For example, they have installed fish passes or turbines compatible with fish circulation. Some have adopted innovative operating measures. Of course, these measures are determined locally based on the stakes of each site and in relation to government services. However, we are aware that differences of opinion, or even conflicts, may arise in some cases. A first response was given with the introduction in March 2017 of the single environmental authorisation, which provides project promoters with important guarantees in terms of both transparency and speed of the procedure. Many exchanges take place between the departments of the ministries and the actors in the sector to direct them towards more virtuous projects, while limiting the sometimes important administrative constraints that may be placed on the operators. In particular, a working group has been set up with the National Water Committee to review the policy of restoring ecological continuity, in conjunction with all relevant stakeholders, including representatives of the hydroelectric sector. Its work has resulted in an action plan to improve the implementation of this policy while taking into account other issues, including energy and heritage. In particular, it will result in instructions to the State authorities to provide them with additional tools when conducting environmental clearances. With regard to small hydropower, I recalled the tariff support measures to which it is subject. However, it must be recognized that, given their size and power, these facilities can only play a limited role in achieving national objectives. It's a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u96	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u97	I will go back to opening up to competition when concessions are renewed, but I will focus on the safety of hydroelectric dams. It is known that EDF or the CNR are now spending significant amounts of money on the safety or security of these dams. However, there would be a real risk if the opening-up to competition were to take place at the time of the renewal of the concessions. Unlike those who preceded it, the Government did not seek to delay or curb that movement. On the contrary: it is complicit in liberalization. However, it is questionable whether new companies, more attracted to profitability than to the general interest, would continue to take safety considerations into account. A few weeks ago, a report – certainly alarmist – pointed to the risk of a break-up of the Vouglans dam, located in the Jura department. In this case, 600 million cubic metres of water would flow into the valleys of the Ain or neighbouring departments, or into the agglomeration and metropolis of Lyon. People must be reassured. What does the Government intend to do not to accompany the competition, but to challenge or even refuse it, because it is not a fatality? On the other hand, if this opening to competition is effective, what specific arrangements are there to ensure the maintenance and safety of hydroelectric dams?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u98	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u99	Safety depends on national regulation – it is at this level that decisions are made – which placed it under the responsibility of the operator. The regulatory framework is also defined by national decrees, which were strengthened in 2018, and by local additions, which include periodic inspections and strengthening work, such as the creation of larger flood escapers. Security is a major, essential and fundamental concern for the Government. We're taking care of it. This is also why it wants to get out of the status quo and to be proactive: first and foremost security must be ensured, and therefore a perspective must be given to hydro-electric concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u100	I don't know if that answer is so reassuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u101	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u102	Hydropower generation accounts for 60% of renewable energy in France. Historically, it comes from mountain territories, which have made sacrifices. A village like Tignes has been swallowed up and great work has been done to make this clean energy available to all, especially in urban areas. The expertise and know-how of the employees, men and women who, for decades, within EDF or the CNR, have enabled these installations to operate safely, with a high level of technicality, make France today a world leader in this field. I am a member of one of the largest hydroelectric dams and works in France – Mont-Cenis, Grand'Maison, Super-Bissorte Central – and I ask you the following question: will France be the only European country to accept to weaken this heritage, this know-how, this expertise by opening up concessions to international competition, without ensuring that the stakes of the multi-use of water – drinking water, agriculture, securing goods and people, running flow, fish farming and biodiversity – are guaranteed, nor are they ensuring that the international intervention of the historical operator is reciprocal? Indeed, a company with mainly Finnish public capital will be able to operate our dams without EDF being able to do so in Finland.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u103	Yes! That's a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u104	How can we explain this to our fellow citizens? Why does France not further defend its national companies managing a heritage, a vital resource – water – whose use will be strained in the future? [[Hubert Wulfranc applauds]] Why should we accept what other European states have managed to avoid, the opening up to competition, which is not wanted by the majority of the French or by the local populations living in the vicinity of these dams? [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] Finally, how can we explain to our fellow citizens, a few months from the European elections, that in the end we have no other choice and that France must resign itself to giving up this strategic resource, because the European Commission demands it and we are unable to do otherwise?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u105	The Secretary of State is in trouble!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u106	This time, we're gonna have to give up the rehearsal comic!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u107	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u108	I have responded in my introductory speech to many of the very legitimate questions that you raise. I repeat that the Government is fully focused on hydropower, a subject of general interest. We fundamentally need this energy, which allows us to achieve a balanced energy mix and which gives its full measure to renewable energies. We are attached to her, as well as to her safety. Multi-annual energy programming also plans to increase hydroelectric power production further. The fact is, however, that the European Commission has called on us, and has repeatedly indicated to us that it wants us to compete with hydro-electric concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u109	Are we at his service?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u110	We offered him several options. She refused them all and was particularly demanding. However, we have set some red lines, which we do not want to go beyond.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u111	When Sarkozy saved the banks, he crossed the red line without bothering the European Commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u112	It is therefore essential that EDF be able to apply for the renewal of concessions. We also believe that other measures are necessary, such as the protection of employees. I had the opportunity to say it. These are priorities. We are fighting these issues. Our red lines are very clearly defined. I know that, on this subject, all Members agree with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u113	Don't be afraid! If you have courage, we will support you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u114	I'm glad to hear it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u115	Mrs Lasserre-David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u116	In 2010, following the promulgation of the Grenelle 2 Act, the State and stakeholders signed a commitment agreement for the development of sustainable hydropower consistent with the restoration of aquatic environments. This convention was the result of a double observation, which is still topical: first, it is necessary to develop hydropower to meet our energy needs and to combat climate change; On the other hand, the development of hydropower can only be done with respect for natural environments, thus preserving them and ensuring their good condition. Over the past ten years, hydropower producers, especially small producers, have made considerable efforts and developed high-quality environmental production, in line with their 2010 promises. For its part, the State had committed itself to making administrative procedures more readable and to raising awareness of the issues facing the small hydro sector, in order to ensure that energy use was better taken into account in applications for IOTA authorisations – installations, works, works and installations. More specifically, it had to make environmental authorization more clear and transparent for facilities and works which are subject to authorization under the Water Act and which lead to a single decision by the prefect of department. This commitment sought to ensure a fair balance between the absolute need to maintain ecological continuity in rivers and the need to develop a virtuous energy that is part of our aspiration to green the French energy mix. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] What concrete measures has the State put in place to train and sensitize the training services to the challenges of the hydroelectric sector, and to restore meaning to the concept of sharing and balanced management of the water resource enshrined in the law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u117	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u118	I know, Madam Member, that you care about this subject and that you are fighting on these issues. As you pointed out, it is very important that hydropower development be carried out in compliance with the objectives of good water condition and biodiversity recovery. For several years, many producers have made considerable efforts to improve the environmental quality of their plant, including, as I have indicated, by installing turbines compatible with fish passage or by providing for innovative operating measures. These measures are of course determined locally, depending on the stakes of each site and in connection with the services of the State, but conflicts – the word is not too strong – may arise in some cases. A first response was given with the introduction in 2017 of the single environmental authorisation, which allows for more transparency and reduces the length of the procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Many exchanges take place between the directorates of the ministry and the actors in the sector. A working group has been set up in conjunction with the National Water Committee to review the policy of restoring ecological continuity. It has resulted in an action plan aimed at improving the implementation of this policy while taking into account other issues, including energy and heritage. It will result in instructions to the state authorities to give them additional tools when conducting environmental clearances.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u119	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u120	You say that you are concerned about the future of hydropower, which is, as everyone has pointed out, the first renewable energy, and which is also a source of employment and resources for the territories. I regret, however, that the multi-annual energy programming does not make enough mention of this, and is below the stakes. Thus, it does not envisage the possibility of launching tenders on some blank sites...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u121	In French Guiana!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u122	... in order to test a fully open competition. This would send a signal to Brussels. At the same time, why not extend concessions under working conditions, as permitted by law, which would allow for a quick investment? My second question concerns the deficit concessions, which are now based on equalization. There are only two solutions. No one will want it, or we will have to pay the operator who will exploit it a supplementary remuneration. What will be the benefit to the consumer?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u123	What about the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u124	You said, in reply to some Members, that EDF could compete for all concessions. That is true, but to be completely transparent, it must be added that, according to your proposal, EDF will not be able to obtain more than 66%, since, on the allotments of three dams, an operator will not be able to obtain more than two works out of three. This limitation is understood even if the operator is less so. With regard to the specifications, it is true that renewals of concessions and possible re-commitments are subject to a framework. Nevertheless, as you know, Madam Secretary of State, a specification is drawn up at a moment t. A number of years ago, when the first specifications were designed, it was not imagined that nautical bases could be established on the reservoirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u125	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u126	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and LT groups]] We can't predict everything. Any change, as you know, leads to a financial renegotiation and an increase in tariffs for consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u127	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u128	Mrs Battistel, your question, which deals with several subjects, shows how much you know this important subject to be interested in for many years. The EPP plans to increase total hydroelectric power, which will justify the launch of tenders. On the other hand, in the case of deficit concessions, additional remuneration is possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u129	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u130	This is practiced for small hydropower. I am not saying that this will be done in a certain way, but it is conceivable. Finally, as regards the limitation of EDF to 66% of the scope of the concessions – two out of three works – nothing is being done at this stage. As I said, there are a number of red lines; We have explained this extensively to the European Commission, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u131	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u132	Madam Secretary of State, under the influence, in particular, of European case law, the Ordinance of 19 April 2017 amends the rules on the management of the public domain. From now on, where the authorisation of temporary occupation of the public domain allows its holder to occupy or use it for economic exploitation, the competent authority shall freely organise a prior selection procedure with full guarantees of impartiality and transparency. Thus, in connection with the operation of a hydroelectric dam, depending on its power, a temporary authorisation for occupation of the public river estate may be issued by a commission freely composed by the prefectural authority. I regret that, too often, these committees are characterized by their technical and technocratic dimension, and that they take into account only the normative criteria, without taking into account the anchoring of candidates in the economy of the territories. I am thinking of a specific case, which is found in a number of places. The selection criteria can be environmental quality, technical quality, occupant suitability and economic strength. In order to assess the criterion of "economic and financial soundness of the project promoter", the impact on local employment is essential; But we don't take it into account. A broader definition of this criterion would give local actors who want to invest in the management of our small hydroelectric dams a chance to anchor their economic efforts. The Minister of Economy and Finance stated that every industrial enterprise anchored in a rural territory was important. I'm ready to talk to you about this. I will hold the Government responsible if a company leaves a rural territory...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u133	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u134	... because its development has not been taken into account in the economic criteria...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u135	Please conclude, my dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u136	...and its capacity to manage a dam.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u137	It'll happen, be sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u138	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr Martial Saddier also applauds]] Madam Secretary of State, how do you feel about the consolidation of the economic criterion in the choice of delegation of the management of hydroelectric dams?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u139	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u140	Mrs Auconia, your question mainly concerns small hydropower. Some projects may indeed require temporary authorization to occupy the public domain, for example to equip dams on its perimeter. The order of 19 April 2017, which you referred to, consolidated the rules laid down in this matter by the general code of ownership of public persons. These rules fall within the competence of the Ministry of Public Action and Accounts. Public domain managers have the flexibility to organise the selection procedures for their occupation, from the moment, of course, when these procedures respect the guarantees of impartiality and transparency. In particular, they may freely choose the selection criteria, as long as they are consistent with the nature of the field and occupation concerned. Madam Member, we must be careful about the criteria to promote local employment, which may be considered discriminatory by some participants in the proceedings. It is a fact, which it is important to take into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u141	We'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u142	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u143	Madam Secretary of State, you will never make us believe that your government is working for the general interest by privatizing the dams! You also tell us that your government is committed to small hydropower. However, the dominance of nuclear power and the centralizing dogma in terms of energy production have led to the abolition of micro-hydropower plants. The decisive advantage of small hydro installations is that production can be directed locally. In the context of the climate dynamics that will profoundly affect our country, it seems to me essential to develop resilient energy production projects. The ecological damage created by such installations may be limited by renovation projects of the existing one, either by refurbishing old micro-centrals or by transforming existing mills to produce electricity. The share of hydraulic energy – about 15% – has been stable in our country since the 1960s. In order to reduce the role of nuclear energy, which is particularly vulnerable to climate change – think, for example, of the lower level of the Rhône and its effects on cooling systems – it seems essential to develop this sector in a coordinated manner. As a result of the rise in the water table, hydraulic installations are more effective in resisting drought phases. Indeed, during these periods, a nuclear accident may occur. Furthermore, the drought phases can be mitigated by the multiplication of microhydraulic power plants. The removal of so many small installations of this type is the application of an energy scheme which we all know is out of date. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Secretary of State, rather than privatizing the dams...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u144	It's not about privatizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u145	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...which constitutes an ecological, economic and democratic aberration, will you implement a plan for the rehabilitation of micro-hydropower plants?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u146	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Madam Member, you will never make us believe that we want to privatize hydroelectric concessions in France – never!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u148	That's the principle of concession!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u149	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] I recalled the importance attached by the Government to the hydropower sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u150	Please listen to the Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u151	It is clear that the objectives set out in the multiannual energy programming, the support measures for small hydropower, the prospects for over-equipment in the context of the renewals of concessions and the maintenance of existing installations will lead to investments in this sector. I said this in my introductory statement, and I repeat: hydropower is an absolutely vital energy in the French energy mix, and it will remain so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u152	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u153	To do this, you don't need concessions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u154	It is a matter of general interest. We have defended it, and we continue to defend it with the European Commission. It is a priority, which will remain. As far as small hydropower is concerned, calls for tenders for medium-sized installations...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u155	Calls for tenders that do not concern the private sector, of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u156	Only the Secretary of State has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u157	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...will be launched. I think it is also important to use existing works, even if the total potential is limited, in France as, more generally, in Western Europe. It's a well-known fact. The highest hydroelectric potential is in areas with few dams, for example in Asia, particularly India and China.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u158	We're talking about France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u159	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-06-O1167.u160	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9:30 a.m.: Discussion of the proposed law on tax justice through the restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth and the strengthening of the progressivity of the income tax; Discussion of the bill to increase the interprofessional minimum wage for growth and wages by accompanying very small enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises; Discussion of the proposal for a law abolishing the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities; Discussion of the bill to strengthen the integrity of elected office and national representation; Discussion of the proposed law in favour of transparency on the use of popular energy savings. The meeting is adjourned.
