ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law, adopted by the Senate after the expedited procedure, authorizing the ratification of the Treaty between the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on Franco-German cooperation and integration (No. 2113, 2171).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u2	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u3	After the positive vote in the Senate – by a very large majority – on 3 July, I am delighted to be with you today to discuss the authorization for ratification of the Franco-German Cooperation and Integration Treaty, signed by Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel and the President of the Republic on 22 January in Aix-la-Chapelle. While the last few months have once again shown the importance of the privileged relationship between Germany and France for the proper functioning of the European Union, allow me, as an introduction to our discussions, to concentrate on a few points of this agreement, which I think is particularly important. The Treaty of Aachen was concluded in the presence of many personalities from both countries, but also of the Presidents of the European Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament. It follows the joint declaration of the Chancellor and the President of the Republic of 22 January 2018, and the joint resolution adopted on the same day by the Bundestag and the National Assembly. Let me point out that we are on 3 October, the day of German unity. There is also a strong symbol of the twenty-nine years of German, European and Franco-German history that have led us to this day when I hope you will allow the ratification of this Treaty. The place chosen for the signing ceremony – the capital of Charlemagne, an emblematic monarch of our common history with Germany and a large part of Europe –, the date – the fifty-sixth anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Elysée between General de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer – and the public framework, to testify to the central place of citizens in Franco-German friendship and the essential role it plays in the construction of a united, democratic and sovereign Europe – illustrate the particular and essential value of this text, with which we intend to open a new era in the singular relationship between our two countries. The Treaty of 22 January 2019 does not replace the 1963 Treaty; It complements it and tends to draw the consequences of the geopolitical evolution of Europe and of the European construction over the last thirty years. The Treaty of Aachen is a Treaty of convergence, which implies a rapprochement between our two countries and, beyond that, between societies and between citizens. That is why it commits the two States to a strategy aimed at building integrated spaces covering all areas – economic, legal, fiscal, social, scientific and cultural – of the life of our peoples. The border territories of the two States are intended to become laboratories of European unity, serving local and regional authorities, businesses and citizens. I am delighted to see on these benches so many of those who, on a daily basis, work in these cross-border regions to bring together the people who live there, work there and make this friendship alive every day, not through speeches, but through very concrete acts. In this context, a number of provisions deserve particular attention. First of all on European issues, the Treaty underlines the willingness of both parties to work together, in particular by formulating joint initiatives and harmonising their positions. It is not just a question of sanctioning or validating an existing practice; It is a matter of making it systematic. The Franco-German couple, as we know, are not enough, but without them many things are now impossible in Europe. The commitment to coordination for the transposition of European law into our legislation also has a practical dimension that everyone understands, as it will prevent us in the future from risks of normative distortion or distancing in the application of these rules, thought to be common. In the area of security, the Treaty stresses the solidarity between our two countries in the event of aggression against our national territories. This provision, in line with our commitments under the North Atlantic Treaty and the European Treaties, is a real step forward. It is a signal, a strong symbol in the context of a bilateral agreement. In the face of the crises that threaten us, we must act together more than ever. Concrete and concise, the text also calls on us to step up our defence cooperation, both capacitive and military. In this area, the existing partnership is already bearing fruit, as demonstrated by the signing of the recent framework agreement with Germany and Spain on the future air combat system programme – SCAF – in the presence of the President of the Republic on 17 June at the Bourget Fair.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u4	What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u5	France also reaffirms its long-standing support for Germany's entry as a permanent member of the UN Security Council. I would like to clarify this point, because we have heard many lies. France does not intend to abandon its own permanent seat, nor is there any question of a seat for the European Union as such. Moreover, such an option would be contrary to the San Francisco Charter and would not be in the interest of Europeans. On the other hand, we support the idea of an enlargement of the Security Council allowing the entry of an additional European State to strengthen the weight of our continent. In the fields of culture, education and research, Germany and France must drive the European effort to face global technological competition, re-create real sovereignty, build synergies between higher education institutions, research centres and training institutes. For example, it is necessary for our two countries to invest and work together in artificial intelligence, renewable energy and genetics, so that our scientists and experts avoid duplication and advance faster. Strengthening regional and cross-border cooperation is an important objective of the Treaty. It aims to promote cross-border projects, particularly in the economic, social, educational, environmental, health, energy and transport fields. The development of these links may be based on a cross-border cooperation committee, whose composition is being finalized. The Committee held its first informal meeting last Monday in Strasbourg. We have included representatives of the assemblies, including several Members of Parliament. More generally, the regions and all local and regional authorities are invited to make a concrete contribution to the Committee's work by sharing with it all the daily issues that slow down or prevent it from going as far as we would like to go in terms of cooperation in these cross-border areas. I will not refer to all the provisions of this ambitious treaty before you. On the other hand, I think it is useful to point out that we are already working on the implementation of the Treaty – if you allow it to be ratified – through fifteen priority projects, ranging from the creation of joint or co-located cultural centres in third countries to the development of cross-border rail links. The Franco-German Council of Ministers, which will hold its next meeting on 16 October, will allow us to review the progress of all these projects. In conclusion, I would like to mention the interparliamentary dimension of Franco-German friendship – I understand, Mr President, that you are very interested in it. The Treaty of Aachen is fully in line with the spirit of strengthening dialogue between the elected representatives of each country. It allows us to innovate and go much further in this area. The Senate and the Bundesrat decided to contribute, by their declaration of 19 March 2019. During the Treaty negotiations, which took place from spring to the end of 2018, a great many suggestions from parliamentarians and civil society were included in the text. This involvement of new actors is a remarkable innovation, which makes it possible to envisage a shared democratic space. The relationship between our two countries cannot be delegated to diplomats and politicians alone. It is through the daily and constant exchange between all those who foster this relationship – business leaders, cultural and educational actors and, of course, parliamentarians – that we will be able to move forward and fully implement this treaty. It is important that our two parliaments are fully involved in the Franco-German dialogue. Created here last spring, the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly brings together fifty members of the National Assembly and fifty members of the Bundestag. By encouraging the approximation of our laws, it will facilitate that of our peoples. She'll avoid misunderstandings. It will allow actors to get to know each other better over a long period of time. We will thus be able to link our destiny within the European Union on the basis of mutual, honest and true understanding. Many of you were present at the second meeting of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly in Berlin on 23 September. I have seen your involvement, which will be essential for the success of the spirit of convergence and integration that drives the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] Thank you for your commitment. I welcome the debate and the questions that will follow my statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u6	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u7	I am proud to be before you today to discuss the authorisation of ratification of the Treaty on Franco-German Cooperation and Integration, said the Treaty of Aachen. Franco-German is, above all, the great history of two peoples who, after having experienced decades of war, rivalry and distrust, have decided to give themselves the hand to build a deep and sincere friendship, bearing the seeds of Europe. It is impossible to speak of this friendship without recalling that nothing was written in advance and that it took the will of two men that everything opposed for the great story to begin. I am of course referring to General de Gaulle and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. At the end of his meeting with General de Gaulle on 14 September 1958 in La Boisserie, the chancellor confided to the German president: "I had to abandon all the prejudices accumulated from the German articles and discussions with the Americans, because I met in de Gaulle a completely different man. Appreciating the listening and frankness of his interlocutor, General de Gaulle in turn said: "We will both be in close personal contact from now on. » From 1958 to 1963, General de Gaulle and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer met face-to-face fifteen times and exchanged an abundant correspondence. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the legacy of our illustrious predecessors: to listen, to meet, to discuss openly and to build the future beyond prejudice. The leaders of our countries have set out to continue this action: President François Mitterrand with Chancellor Helmut Kohl; Chancellor Gerhard Schröder with President Jacques Chirac, whose memory I greet with humility; Chancellor Angela Merkel with Presidents Nicolas Sarkozy, François Hollande and Emmanuel Macron. Franco-German is not just this great story. It is also the small history of each of us, particularly mine, that has been marked by the concrete consequences of the implementation of the Elysée Treaty. I grew up in Brittany, more than 800 kilometres from the German border, and nothing predisposed me to be here in front of you. I had the pleasure of being a student of one of these famous European classes, a concrete result of the Elysée Treaty. The mastery of Goethe's language allowed me, when I served under the flags, to be the ideal candidate to command a company of the Franco-German brigade – another consequence of the Elysée Treaty. This passion for Franco-German led me to the gallery this morning. I know that many of you share a story similar to mine. Franco-German, therefore, is both the small and the great story. Let me remind you of the important steps that have been taken towards this new treaty between France and Germany. Signed on 22 January 2019 in Aix-la-Chapelle, this text follows the joint declaration of Chancellor Angela Merkel and the President of the Republic of 22 January 2018, as well as the joint resolution adopted on the same day by the Bundestag and the National Assembly. These reminders would be incomplete if I did not mention the Sorbonne speech of 26 September 2017, during which the President of the Republic conveyed his vision for a sovereign, united and democratic Europe. I hear that this treaty would be unambitious. Is it a lack of ambition to give our two countries, and therefore Europe, new instruments of sovereignty in the field of defence, security and access to space? And to equip them with an ambition in the face of ecological and digital transitions, facing the migration challenge? I also hear that this treaty would mark France's renunciation. How could this be when it enshrines the respect of the promise of our founding fathers, among whom General de Gaulle, a man for whom the freedom and independence of France were guides at all times? For some, the Treaty of Aachen lacks ambition; For others, he has too many. None of this is true. Let's not be afraid to be heirs to our history. The differences of everyday life must be relativized and confidence passed on to future generations. Their future is neither in self-absorbing nor in the hatred of others; It is in trust and the search for a new common ideal. This text, with great ambition, opens a new era in the relationship between our two countries. Fifty-six years after the Elysée Treaty, which aimed at reconciliation, this new agreement aims at Franco-German convergence in order to revive European integration. He does not abrogate the treaty of the Elysée; It complements it to take account of political developments related to the European integration process. This Treaty commits us to action in areas where it is essential that our two countries move forward together, so that Europe is able to face the challenges it faces: global warming, insecurity at the gates of the continent, questioning multilateralism, the digital economy, trade war. As the Secretary of State recalled, a list of fifteen priority projects has been drawn up – it is included in the impact assessment – to give a quick and concrete translation to this treaty. I am thinking in particular of the common citizen's fund, which has been the subject of a provision of the finance bill this year – we are all counting on you, Madam Secretary of State – to the digital platform, cross-border rail links and Franco-German cultural institutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this Treaty is important, because it gives political meaning and a popular dynamic to a relationship that may have become a little too routine. This relationship is no longer exclusive; It is put at the service of the whole of Europe. I believe that this Treaty is necessary, because it encourages us to strengthen our political culture as the German partner, while many stereotypes persist which still disturb our relationship today. I believe that this treaty is innovative, because it involves parliamentarians in this new dynamic of cooperation. This is important because, on many issues, the Bundestag is a key institutional player in Germany. We will therefore have a role to play, both in the Chamber and in the committee and in the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly. It will have a key role in many areas: understanding our respective democratic models, bringing together strategic visions, cooperation on official development assistance, arms exports – among others. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore call on you to authorize, by your vote, the ratification of the Treaty on Franco-German Cooperation and Integration, known as the Treaty of Aachen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u8	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, Deputy Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u9	I sincerely thank the rapporteur, Laetitia Saint-Paul, on behalf of President Marielle de Sarnez, who could not be with us this morning, and in my own name, for the excellence and accuracy of her report. Fifty-six years after the Treaty of Elysée, which sealed the Franco-German reconciliation, we are considering this morning the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Treaty on Franco-German Cooperation and Integration, which we know better under the name of the Treaty of Aachen. As the rapporteur recalled, it was signed on 22 January by President Emmanuel Macron and Chancellor Angela Merkel. First of all, let me remind you that this is a French initiative. It came from the President of the Republic, who, in his founding speech at the Sorbonne on 27 September 2017, only a few months after his election, proposed to Germany a new partnership. This speech was followed, on 21 January 2018, by a joint statement by the President of the Republic and the Chancellor with the aim of broadening Franco-German cooperation. Why a new partnership, you will ask me, when the relations between our two countries have never been so dense and have largely, and for a long time, gone beyond the stage of reconciliation? Simply because the challenges that our generation faces are not those of the post-war era. I would simply mention the preservation of the environment or the question of migration, which obviously did not raise the same questions in the 'world of yesterday', to paraphrase a great German-speaking European writer. We will only be able to deal with these issues together, and greater convergence will only increase our effectiveness. This is the whole meaning of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle: to move from a logic of reconciliation to a logic of convergence. What is the Treaty of Aachen? First of all, it is a concrete treaty, in that it affects the very life of our two countries. The rapporteur gave the best illustration of this in terms of education and bilingualism. It is indeed the Treaty of Elysée which, thanks to the Franco-German Youth Office, has enabled millions of young people from both countries to get to know each other and to exchange information. The Treaty of Aachen goes further: it provides strategies to make bilingualism the rule, especially in our border areas. It also organises the cooperation of our societies for a successful ecological transition, which will go beyond the eternal question of German coal against French nuclear power. It revives cross-border cooperation by giving local and regional authorities new prerogatives which will enable them to carry out concrete actions with their German counterparts. When we know the persistence of our Jacobinism and the importance of their federalism, it is a trick! Finally, it provides for the possibility of creating Franco-German champions in order to lead a European industrial policy adapted to the 21st century, in the face of the rise of China and Donald Trump's very offensive economic policy. It is then a treaty at the service of the European project. At the time of Brexit, we have an urgent need for a strong Franco-German couple, capable of making a European Union work at the service of the peoples and projecting it towards the future. The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle can thus be seen as enhanced cooperation: nothing will prevent other States from becoming part of the public policies it sets up. Ultimately, this Treaty, which aims to accelerate Franco-German convergence, can be seen as an embryo of Europe's concentric circles, the centre being increasingly integrated countries. This may be a path that can restore confidence in the European ideal. Finally, it is the project of two major European countries in the service of multilateralism and peace, at a time when these ideals are so shaken. In international forums, our two countries promote convergent values. However, they will be better defended by France and Germany with the same voice. Without going back to the 2003 war in Iraq, much has been said about it in recent days, I will mention the agreement on Iran's nuclear power: alongside the great powers members of the United Nations Security Council, therefore of France, Germany played a fundamental role at the time of the conclusion of the agreement, but also at the time of the withdrawal of the United States, with the aim of maintaining dialogue with Iran. Through this Treaty, France undertakes to advocate for the integration of its neighbour from overseas as a permanent member of the Security Council, in particular in order to strengthen the world view that we share. As an economic giant, Germany was no longer the "political dwarf" it was at the time of General de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer. His army is present in many theatres of operations, alongside us, for example in the Sahel. The training effect of the Franco-German couple is significant for the other European partners. It is this type of progress that is expected from the Treaty of Aachen. The Franco-German Defence and Security Council, in particular, will have as its primary objective the strengthening of Europe's autonomous capacity for action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u10	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u11	I conclude, dear President. Today, and even more so, tomorrow, thanks in particular to the tools that we are equipping ourselves with, the Franco-German couple will be an export force for peace and stability. I cannot finish my speech without mentioning Jacques Chirac, who worked so hard in this direction in close cooperation with Gerhard Schröder and Angela Merkel. This treaty is therefore also a bit of a legacy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Fuchs also applauds]] In light of these clarifications, I invite you to pass the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u12	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u13	I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to the President of our Assembly, Richard Ferrand, who yesterday took a decisive part in the settlement of the return of our colleague Mathilde Panot, who has been detained in Algeria.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u15	Consideration of this bill is not the first opportunity for us to debate the content of the treaty. I have not changed my mind since the last time, and on behalf of my group, I am expressing my hostility to this text. I know, of course, like all of you, that, because of history and geography, France must constantly have a thought-provoking, coherent and strategic attitude towards its great neighbour, Germany. Our neighbor has invaded us three times since 1870,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u16	It used to be the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u17	...and I do not believe that it is a stereotype to have in mind the history and reasons that may have led to such a situation. Like everyone else, I welcome the signs of friendship, fraternity, solidarity and affection, but I do not share the idea that there is a Franco-German "couple". I don't see what libido's doing in this kind of relationship! The Germans are content to speak of a Franco-German "engine", which is more in line with their vision, given their country's main industry. There is indeed an engine. However, in Europe of twenty-eight, Germany is no longer the eastern border of Europe. Since enlargement to ten new countries, it has become the geographical centre, and our relationship is no longer the same. You feel obliged to maintain a specific link with it, to coordinate our positions. I'm not making this obligation my own. Italy and Spain are Europe's third and fourth economies, with France the second. There is no reason why those who call us Club Med, often with a great deal of arrogance, should be a privileged ally. Since the signing of this treaty, many signals should have alerted French strategists. The first was the speech by Mrs Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, President of the CDU – Christian Democratic Union –, Germany's most powerful party, currently in power. It has in fact shown in the most clear and unambiguous way its absolute opposition to the constant position of the French on the question of social harmonisation: "European centralism, European stateism, the communitisation of debts, the Europeanisation of social protection systems and the minimum wage would be the wrong path. We think the opposite! Similarly, it intends to act against solidarity-based protectionism, with Europe, in its view, having "the means to act competitively in the world – a pious wish that everyone can share – while others distort competition through protectionist measures or state monopolies". Again, this is the opposite of the French position. Furthermore, it considered that "the European Union should in the future be represented by a joint permanent seat on the UN Security Council", which is also the position of the new President of the European Commission. On this point, Madam Secretary of State, you felt obliged to provide us with some clarifications, which I thank you for. In any case, there can be no question of such a representation! This would necessarily mean the loss of the French seat. I do not agree that France should give up its seat in any way. Here, too, it is history that has determined the representation of Europe in the Security Council. If we go back to the composition of the Security Council – the Insoumis and I want it – it must be not to remove the French seat or add a German seat to it, but to reconsider its relationship with the General Assembly and to bring in nations such as India and Brazil, and some African nation, so that they finally find their place in the forum where decisions are made. It would be that the United Nations reflects what the world is today. There is no reason to give particular preference to Germany. I know that many of you are immediately turning criticism into a sign of Germanophobia or principle hostility to Germany. This is not at all my political position or that of the Insoumis. Everyone chooses his friends – my friends are rather Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg – but there can be no hostility of principle to the Germans; It is necessary to adopt a reasoned, controlled and clear attitude, in contrast to any illusion and any form of romanticism in the relations between French and Germans. Let us focus on what General de Gaulle said, which many of you have felt the need to quote: the Franco-German relationship has meaning only in strict equality. But the German government regularly rapes – regularly! – this equality or makes demands prevail that are not in line with the European spirit. Why does the German government not give priority to the Ariane programme when launching satellites? In fact, it sometimes deals with third countries, whereas Ariane is a common project. For lack of time, I will only take this example, but I could quote many others. The same was true when we installed our own satellite positioning system. After dragging the feet beyond reasonable, Germany, continuously – continuously! – aligned with the United States, NATO's nuanceless thuriferary, has agreed to embark the United States, which has given itself the right to look at what we are looking at and has obtained that our satellites are not placed in the same orbits as those of the US GPS, so that they may, if necessary, interrupt our communications without interrupting theirs. Usually, these elements are not debated in the public square, where we only hear the violins of mad love. For my part, I do not agree: in each of these circumstances where the French failed to demand strict equality of relations, things went wrong. For me, 3 October is not a day of joy, because the reunification of Germany took place without taking account of the provisions of the German constitution itself, so much so that some have been able to speak of a pure annexation of East Germany, which has lost its currency, its political institutions and its property regime, considerable things. I have the right not to rejoice, without this being perceived as an aggressive speech towards Germany; I think things could have happened anything else. I would point out to the French that this case, which ended on the principle of "an Eastern mark is worth a Western mark", cost us 100 billion! Indeed, the French had to align themselves with German interest rates, which the Bundesbank increased to prevent an explosion of inflation. And no one has anything to say about it, no one recalls these facts or makes any requirement! This House knows that I am not in favour of exporting arms, but so far neither of the two partners could ban the other from exporting arms. Now, because we are developing joint programmes – tanks, aircraft, missiles – for reasons that I do not understand and I do not approve, we are preparing a treaty whereby the German Government would be able to ban the export of any French material if it included at least 20% German components. I will not vote in favour of arms exports; I'm just observing that it's always the same people who are taking the next steps. We ask you to be vigilant – this is our position. When the AFD – Alternative für Deutschland – climbs the slope and we see neo-Nazis in Germany, we have the right to impose the requirement of strict equality and mutual control of what we undertake together. I say this with the passion of the minority, because I know very well that you will adopt the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle without any other form of trial, regardless of the fact that it contains provisions that are not in the interests of the French. It is not in the interests of the French to organise a Franco-German condominium on Europe. This is the subject of Article 2, which aims at "common positions" and "coordinated statements in the European institutions". Article 24 introduces a participation that I will not qualify, because I am used to being made war on a word taken from one of my sentences... Finally, let us think about it: at regular intervals, a German minister will attend the Council of French Ministers. I do not know what the value of such an invention is, what its political significance is and what its practical consequence is. Would the Council of Ministers be a Christmas showcase for the French government? No, it's the government of France, and that's why we find French people there! If it were to be otherwise, it would mean that this minister would be responsible to the French Parliament, as you are, Madam Secretary of State, and as all French ministers are. This is not a question. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] In the same way, we are inventing provisions allowing border regions to derogate from national law in the areas of economic, social, environmental, health and transport. What's left then?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u18	We see it every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u19	That's progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u20	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have a right to be against it! To allow a territory to have legislation that is not the one that prevails in the Republic and indivisible is simply to move the border, because the regions that will be in contact with these border regions will in turn become border regions. It is to put a finger in a gear, which is certainly suitable for a majority of you, I know very well, since you are in favour of differentiating legislation according to the territories. For my part, I am against, and you can hear a voice that defends, absolutely implacablely, the unity and indivisibility of the law, because when it is no longer one and indivisible, it is usually at the expense of the labour code and this translates into differentiated rights for workers; We only know it too well. The same treaty provides for increased and accelerated integration into NATO – the rapporteur has not denied it. This is the aim of Article 4, which links Europe from defence to NATO and sets the objective of strengthening the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance. After the President of the Republic vetoed the appointment of Mr Manfred Weber, German Conservative, President of the European People's Party – the problem is not that he is German but that he is conservative – it was Mrs Ursula von der Leyen who was elected to head the European Commission. However, it has never hidden its fundamental political opinions, as regards both the French and the alliances. In a forum she published, not only did the President of the Commission reaffirm for the umpteenth time the link between NATO and Europe, but she made it clear what her concerns were: Russia. It called for a military presence to be set up in the Baltic countries and at Russia's borders, which is an aberration. The first time I told you, many of you protested. Since then, the President of the Republic has taken up a formula that was mine, namely that Russia was not an enemy but a partner. I therefore hope that, from now on, we will see things differently and consider that Russia cannot be an enemy, but is necessarily, for the French, a partner. Every time we did something different in history, it went wrong for us. Our fundamental interest is never to have any opposition with Russia, and I add: whatever government is in place in this country. If General de Gaulle has managed to get along with Stalin, perhaps we can at least understand us and Putin. The nature of a regime must not intervene – or rarely – in France's determination of its international strategy for France. Otherwise, tell me what we're doing with Saudi Arabia! It is very dangerous to put a finger in the gear of a principled hostility to Russia. I find it equally deplorable that the same President of the Commission has turned a blind eye to AFD and the other parties of this nature in Europe by creating a position of European Commissioner for Migration and the Protection of the European way of life, which says, in barely euphemised terms, something unbearable for all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u21	Recognize that there's a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u22	That's not how we'll solve the problem the old continent has to deal with. At a time when it is so brown, I would like to recall the interest that we would have in consolidating an alliance with the first European economy with the aim of strengthening workers' rights and raising the standard of living of Europeans, because that is where all the evil comes from. Germany, the leading European power, the third or fourth world power, has 13 million poor people! There will soon be 6 million people in paid employment there 450 euros per month. It is on this earth – so as not to use a harsher word – in these terrible conditions for people's lives that all jealousies, oppositions of principle and tensions that eventually lead to extremist nationalist alternatives arise. I am opposed to this treaty because it is necessary to send the Federal Republic of Germany the signal that the French do not swallow up any novel about friendship between the two countries. This one needs to be confirmed by facts, not by beautiful words.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u23	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u24	Without giving you a point-by-point answer, because I do not think that the debates should be too personal in this House, I would nevertheless like to develop some elements. [[Smile on various benches. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There is no engine without torque, and it is the engine torque that accelerates. If we talk about the Franco-German engine, then we can talk about the Franco-German couple!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u25	I see the automobile culture has gone down!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u26	Fifteen-zero in favour of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u27	Thank you. In your opinion, European convergence in the social field would not be the objective of Mrs Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer; Anyway, it's ours. The President of the Republic affirmed this in his speech by the Sorbonne and since then. A few weeks ago, Ursula von der Leyen himself announced to the European Parliament that setting a minimum wage in each Member State would be part of its objectives, so that no full-time worker earns less than the poverty line. I hope you share that goal. It was a president of German nationality who did so in front of the European Parliament, and I believe that many French people share it. I wanted to clarify this point. I repeat, we will not give up our seat on the Security Council. You are calling for reform of the Council, and this is indeed an important debate. We often say that it is in the interest of peace in the world and of world diplomacy that international forums represent the great geopolitical balances. My statement was intended to clarify things: we believe that a single seat for the whole of the European Union would not be in accordance with either the San Francisco Charter or what Europeans want. With regard to German reunification, which would have been an annexation, I would like to remind all of you, on this anniversary of 3 October, which invites us to clarify a few things. On 13 November 1989, the Parliament of the German Democratic Republic declared that reunification was an issue to be resolved by the Germans themselves; He thus expressed a choice of sovereignty. On 18 March 1990, elections were held in the GDR, which saw the victory of the CDU. It invoked Article 23 of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany, which allowed a Land to accede unilaterally to the Federal Republic of Germany – it had therefore been stated in the texts, as early as 1949, that reunification was possible and desirable. On 22 August 1990, the GDR Parliament passed a law creating new Länder. On 23 August, he applied for membership of the Federal Republic of Germany, in the spirit of the 1949 Constitution. This accession took effect on 3 October. I do not think this is an annexation, since at each stage it was the decision-makers of the GDR who, through positive choices, allowed this reunification. I'm going to the joint weapons projects. I thought, Mr. Mélenchon, you were a pacifist. However, if there is something that promotes peace, it is that countries share their secret information. The good news of the SCAF project is that from the moment they design a combat plane together, France, Germany and Spain can no longer wage war between themselves. I am always surprised to see those who claim to be pacifists rejecting any joint weapons project, while having the same weapons reduces the likelihood of a war. It is because we want to come closer and wish peace together that we pool our arms. Against Russia, we are not looking for a definitive diplomatic posture. For me, friendship with or opposition to Russia must not be systematic. The President of the Republic seeks to re-establish a frank and demanding dialogue on a number of subjects, in particular to advance the settlement of frozen conflicts in the eastern part of the continent – in Ukraine, Moldova and the Caucasus, especially in Georgia – which have created areas of lawlessness. To achieve this, we need to maintain a sustained dialogue with Russia. In other areas, on the other hand, there are real disputes between us, but we are not in a systematic opposition. Last Tuesday in Strasbourg, the President of the Republic and I participated in the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Council of Europe, an organisation that promotes values such as respect for human rights, the protection of minorities and the protection of journalists across the European continent. Within the Council of Europe, we express to Russia demands concerning the right to demonstrate, the right of candidates to stand for election or the protection of militant, Chechen or other leaders. France, which chairs the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe for six months, is fully associated with these requests. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have a frank and demanding dialogue with Russia, not a systematic opposition or romantic friendship. It is a country of European culture, a true partner, with which we have many exchanges, particularly within the Council of Europe, but with which we also have demands. I think it was important to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u28	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u29	Mr President Mélenchon, the Republican Group is opposed to your motion to reject it beforehand. Some of your arguments make sense: the relationship between our two countries must be balanced, and it is essential for France to affirm that its interests must be taken into account in this relationship. As an Alsatian, strongly attached to France and Europe, imbued with the unique history of my region between the two countries, I can tell you that we must make every effort, lucidly and without naivety, to carry out a genuine work of substance between our two nations. In this, I will join you, Mr. Mélenchon. On the other hand, one point separates us: in the spirit of my political family and General de Gaulle, I consider that we must be able to reach out to the Germans. Not to do so would expose our nation to a much more problematic situation. Since the 1960s, France and Germany have always managed to overcome their differences; This has been a fundamental step forward. We must maintain this spirit and maintain a balanced Franco-German relationship, which will provide a better future for our citizens. The Republican Group and I are convinced that we must continue to work in dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u30	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u31	For political, economic and historical reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Mr Mélenchon, I invite you to come to Strasbourg to better understand the difficulties caused by the dissonance between French and German rights for border residents. The Transfrontier Cooperation Committee set up by the Treaty will help solve, for the benefit of our fellow citizens, these concrete problems that have persisted for decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u32	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u33	President Mélenchon, with the passion and passion we know him,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u34	And talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u35	... convokes sometimes history, sometimes news, to explain that it is not in France's interest to confirm its partnership, cooperation and historical friendship with Germany, because of the absence of "strict equality" in the relationship – you have spoken these words several times, Mr Mélenchon. If we follow you, our country would be systematically on the wheel of Germany in terms of economic strategy and the conduct of international relations. However, can you explain to us what you mean by "strict equality"? Over the course of history, the relative positions of France and Germany have varied, without necessarily having to compete with each other; It's a state of affairs. For example, reunited Germany has a greater demographic weight than France. Is this, however, a problem in the balance of the relationship? I don't think so. Similarly, France is ahead of Germany in some economic areas, but not in others. The notion of "strict equality" therefore makes little sense in understanding the Franco-German relationship. In your opinion, we would be obsessed with the relationship with Germany to the point that we would neglect its relations with all our other partners. Germany has the same approach to international relations as we do: it defends multilateralism. Being attached to it yourself, you should not disqualify the Franco-German relationship.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u36	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u37	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u38	What courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u39	We agree with all the brilliant arguments put forward by President Mélenchon. I will keep two of them to explain our group's position. First, by giving primacy to economic convergence and affirming attachment to the principles of neoliberalism, the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle went back to the Treaty of Versailles, which was forward-looking and based on friendship among peoples. The philosophy, priorities and concerns that guide these two treaties are very different. Secondly, by endorsing the creation of a hard core at this point, we will put the European Union at risk, because we will devote a two-speed Europe, with some countries at the heart of the reactor and others on the bench.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u40	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u41	To be a French woman at the end of the world, who observes things from afar, I can tell you, Mr Mélenchon, how essential the strength of Franco-German friendship is to weigh on the international scene. I don't understand what you're opposing. Is this the rapprochement of our youths? That would be surprising to say the least. Is this the emergence of strong European diplomacy? The strength of the Franco-German relationship, I said, is fundamental at a time when our main allies are turning their backs on us. Why do you object to history? You are essential to Germany; You make it an absolute adversary, while it is a partner with which we absolutely have to build. Why do you oppose the builders of Europe? I would also like to stress the singular and decisive role played by President Chirac in his time. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For our part, the group La République en marche and I oppose all those who handle both the fake news and the language of Victor Hugo; We strongly oppose your narrow vision of Europe and France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u42	I'll put the vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u43	What about my group's explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u44	We understand the meaning of your vote, Mr Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u45	In the general debate, Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u46	This day is important for the Franco-German relationship, and President Mélenchon does not mind. The review of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle is an opportunity to welcome the work done, but also to outline the future work. The very important work carried out in recent decades in favour of Franco-German cooperation is a valuable achievement; We must now go even further. Concluded in 1963, the Treaty of Elysée – not the Treaty of Versailles, as some have said – was fully part of a desire for Franco-German reconciliation. Its double signature by the French State and the German State, represented by the President of Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer, was a symbol of the real and positive dynamics that followed, and of which we are indisputably the heirs. We must be worthy of this heritage, understand its origin and motivation, in order to make it fruitful and to pass on to future generations the precious good, bequeathed by our predecessors, of peace between our two nations. Between France and Germany, there have been too many wars. My political family is clearly part of this legacy. That is why we fully supported the Franco-German parliamentary agreement signed earlier this year, as well as our support for the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle – although we regret that it does not go far enough in certain areas, that sometimes there are still incantations instead of proposing concrete actions to serve French and German citizens. The questions that our fellow citizens have about this intergovernmental treaty on cooperation between France and Germany are as follows: Is it useful? Will he bring an additional stone to the existing building? How will it improve our daily lives? After all, the Treaty of Elysée worked well for more than half a century, and its content was quite simple: the creation of the Franco-German Youth Office with a view to intensifying exchanges between young people in both countries; solemn affirmation of the will to cooperate as closely as possible in a broad field from economic policy to international affairs and defence; establishment of a timetable setting out frequent and regular meetings between government officials in both countries. This has led to a very useful practice of quasi-permanent consultation between the German and French governments, which has often allowed different positions to be reconciled and, more importantly, compromises to emerge on a European scale – because the Franco-German couple or engine is indeed a reality. The Franco-German Treaty signed at Aix-la-Chapelle certainly adds new areas of cooperation, but its scope remains minor compared to what has already been built thanks to the Elysée Treaty. The ambition could have been greater. Chancellor Merkel said to Aix-la-Chapelle on 22 January: "The decisive question will be whether, behind this treaty, there will be the will to make it live, as well as a real ambition. » This ambition, therefore, will have to be lived up to. But Franco-German cooperation in Europe has often been the scene of conflicts of interest and ideas – in this respect, some of President Mélenchon's arguments are relevant. Sometimes even domestic policy problems have blocked the search for common solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u47	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u48	When you are Alsatian, you know what persistent differences between France and Germany mean. As Sylvain Waserman pointed out, the inhabitants of cross-border areas know how essential it is for our two states to work together to fluidize trade, without consenting to a so-called, especially social, less-supposed one. This situation has not changed, as evidenced by a statement a few months ago by Ms. Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, President of the CDU. My party is certainly a friend of the CDU, but the statements that have been made do not suit us. Mrs Kramp-Karrenbauer, who had in the meantime become Minister of Defence, wanted to move the seat of the European Parliament from Strasbourg to Brussels, ignoring the symbolic dimension of Strasbourg, from the point of view of both Franco-German reconciliation and European integration. It will be our duty, in the National Assembly and in the newly created Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, to work through what can be called "parliamentary diplomacy" so that Strasbourg remains the seat of the European Parliament; the stakes go far beyond logistical and accounting concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u49	Yes, it's non-negotiable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] This is not just a question of VAT rates; What we're talking about is a symbol for peace. Madam Secretary of State, if we follow the spirit of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, one of your duties will be to do everything possible to convince our German partner that the seat of the European Parliament is a non-negotiable subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u51	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u52	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, MODEM, FI and GDR groups]] The statements I have heard from you are reassuring, but the whole of our institutional structure should go in the same direction. The Prime Minister and the President of the Republic must reaffirm as soon as possible that the seat of the European Parliament is in Strasbourg and that this cannot under any circumstances be a matter of negotiation. In the same vein, you must work tirelessly to ensure that the industrial projects under way between France and Germany – I am thinking in particular of the combat aircraft of the future – can come about, because we feel that we are emerging from the reluctance that is not at all in the spirit of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. This is attested by the replies of a member of the German government on this subject last week in Berlin. Here again, we must ensure that the promises initially made by the Germans are kept. Friendship must be accompanied by vigilance. In short, this treaty will be what the French and German governments will do in practice. Of course, let us not be naive: differences will persist between France and Germany. To imagine that all this is a bed of roses would be of great candour. Real wealth is elsewhere: it is in the capacity to develop collective intelligence to manage these differences. The construction of Europe has been and will continue to be possible as long as we are able to manage the differences upstream and prevent them from hindering the construction of a common destiny, in Europe in general and between France and Germany in particular. However, the crisis in the euro area has highlighted this, political pressure is making Franco-German compromises increasingly difficult, as our respective public opinions often draw in the opposite direction. This shows the limit of government approaches alone and advocates substantive work to involve citizens in Franco-German cooperation. This aspect is already included in the Treaty of Elysée through twinning, exchanges and cooperation, but the good news is that now our two assemblies, the Bundestag on the one hand, and the National Assembly on the other, are committed to supporting Franco-German cooperation and to being forces of proposal and action. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Let us therefore say it loud and clear, and let us be proud: everything that will contribute to intensifying dialogue and will make it possible to weigh up Franco-German cooperation on all levels of our institutional structure on both sides of the Rhine is desirable. Let us be resolutely optimistic, but lucid. Let Franco-German cooperation live!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For information, we will convene the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg at a forthcoming session. President Schäuble gave me his consent. Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u54	The day has come to ratify a treaty between France and Germany. MODEM will strongly support the bill. It would be a serious mistake to think that this is a treaty like any other. In my view, this Treaty meets a European need; it opens a new path; He's a bearer of hope. A European necessity, first of all, because, in an ideal Europe, fiscal convergence would not be hindered by the rule of unanimity, our economies would converge, European regulations would evolve at the pace of the challenges facing the Union. But the reality of Europe is not that. Today, within the euro area itself, if there is an intention of convergence, there is a reality of divergence. Today, European regulations do not go to the pace of GAFA, China or the rise of populism. Today, these regulations, which have a direct impact on SMEs, are all non-tariff barriers that hinder their development within the Union itself. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, France and Germany have a special responsibility; they must play a role as a convergence accelerator and European initiatives. If they decide on an accelerated convergence of their models, if they launch joint projects, then they will have a driving effect. This is exactly what is proposed in this Treaty, which deals with the harmonisation of economic spaces, will enable innovative projects, particularly in the field of artificial intelligence, to be launched and will promote closer relations in the field of defence. These are concrete, precise objectives which are intended to be the forerunners of European convergence and the driving force behind our common ambition. For political, economic and historical reasons, France and Germany cannot escape this responsibility. We must be a European driving force. Let us recall the very right words spoken by the President of the European Commission on the day of the signing of the Treaty in Aachen: when France and Germany agree, it irritates some of them, but when they disagree, it worries everyone. I therefore wish to convey to you an essential message: the ambition of this treaty goes far beyond its bilateral framework. It is a real step forward for the European project, and it is in this sense that it sets a course. Our parliaments, the Bundestag and the National Assembly, will play their full role: joint control of the two Executives in order to ensure the full implementation of the Treaty; an operational tool for the convergence of our rights and the approximation of our positions at European level. The time has come, too, to take a decisive step in cross-border matters. Last Monday, I attended the first informal meeting of the Treaty Committee on Cross-Border Cooperation in Strasbourg. For the first time, around the table, the three powers were brought together: the legislative power, with members of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly; the deconcentrated State, with the Prefect, and the Central State, with the Ambassador in charge of intergovernmental commissions, cooperation and border issues; the local executives of the Grand Est region, the Alsatian departments, the Moselle and the Eurometropole of Strasbourg; Finally, their German equivalents, at the federal level and at the Länder level. Our method is as follows: to address one by one each of the irritating problems of everyday life faced by the citizens of the border, and to solve them one by one, by responding to them, either by means of regulations, or by the convergence or harmonisation of our two rights. It is this pragmatic approach that will be made possible by the ratification of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, beyond the monitoring of joint projects and the establishment of a direct link with the Franco-German Council of Ministers. The day has come, finally, to write a new page in Franco-German history. In the European campaign, some said that it was pointless to put forward the argument of the seventy-five years of peace, because he did not speak to our fellow citizens. I would like to say a few words today. On Tuesday, the President of the Republic was in Strasbourg – and you were accompanying her, Madam Secretary of State. He spoke, with words mine cannot equal, of the 70 years of the Council of Europe and of the seventy-five years of peace, which are a unique parenthesis in the history of our continent. Being elected from the Great East, a land which, more than any other, has experienced the price of blood, with the battle of the Meuse, the battle of the Marne, the Verdun trenches or the concentration camp of the Struthof, in the Lower Rhine, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not forget, when authorizing the ratification of this Treaty, the symbolic and historical force it possesses. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and LR groups]] There are things that the passing time will never erase. This is the case with the tragic history between France and Germany. On the other hand, I know that this new treaty of friendship between our two countries, fifty-six years after that of the Elysée, will have a special resonance for all the families – especially mine – that have been torn apart by the fratricidal wars that have opposed us. In preparing this intervention, I had in mind that two generations ago, two of my grandparents were deported to Auschwitz. The day has come for their grandson to stand before you and urge you to vote in favour of a treaty so strong that it will bring France and Germany together again. That is to say, this treaty is above all a magnificent and formidable message of hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u55	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u56	Today we are considering the bill authorizing the ratification of the Franco-German Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. On the same day, across the Rhine, it is the day of the German Unity, the national holiday. This text, which has generated both favourable and unfavourable reactions, is now before us. As I said two years ago in this same Chamber, none of the great issues of our time can find a national solution alone. Climate change, migration, defence, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, economic development, the fight against inequalities in a globalised economy, none of these themes escape this imperative. The European dimension prevents us from living alone and locked up within our borders. What individual states have lost in efficiency within their territories, subject to decisions that no longer belong to them alone or to events of which they are no longer masters, they can find it by acting together and assert it outside Europe in the face of more powerful states demographically, economically or militarily. We need a political driving force for this European entity. The engine, which is literally what is in motion, has been developed largely on the basis of the shared will of Germany and France. Jean-Jacques Rousseau had noted two centuries ago, applying a physical law to the moral world, that water never acts only at the level of its source. And it is because this commitment has its source in the search for lasting peace and cooperation that we must return to it. The President of the Republic has used the expression "European sovereignty" to designate a power to assert and to become one. Personally, I would prefer that of "European Republic", combining what is common to us and affirming a new power. The term sovereignty is indeed charged with a historical meaning, linked to the nation states, and rather refers to the summit. However, if the principle of sovereignty is that the institution creates action and allows progress for all, then it will be understood and accepted. Ultimately, what matters is what direction we will give to this common commitment. In any event, this Treaty returns to the source, the 1963 Elysée Treaty, whose modalities it updates. It gives it a political framework, including a parliamentary one. The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle created a Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly. Consisting of a hundred deputies – fifty French and fifty Germans – who will sit every six months alternately on both sides of the Rhine, this assembly will be co-chaired by the presidents of the National Assembly and the Bundestag. It is an innovation that should be welcomed. Political groups will be major components of this; It will therefore be a political assembly, which could be the crucible of joint initiatives between groups. Since 2007, our German colleagues, who have been very active on subsidiarity and legislative coordination issues between the European Parliament and the Bundestag, have had permanent representation in Brussels; Germany has invested in parliamentary oversight at national and European level. Through our exchanges, we will be able to benefit from this political investment and the know-how attached to it. Mr President, why not consider the creation of a genuine permanent representation of the National Assembly in Brussels, similar to that of the Bundestag? In order to play its full role at European level, our Assembly should indeed give itself the means to act as upstream as possible of the European legislative procedure: early warning mechanism on sensitive texts, exchange of information... Our representation could be based on the German example, both on the administrative and the political side. It could even be proposed that the German and French parliamentary representations, although distinct, occupy the same premises, following the pattern of the joint diplomatic representations of certain countries of the European Union. This would be a real step forward and an example of interparliamentary cooperation on European subjects. Let us live the will to work together in Europe! I would like to highlight three points. First point: common defence and security. The Treaty of Aachen establishes as the main area of enhanced cooperation a common foreign and security policy both at European level and between the two States. To recall the original meaning of the European project and to give meaning to Europe go hand in hand. Peace and security are at the heart of the European project: the European Union, before the letter, was one of the ideas of European resistance to totalitarian regimes, particularly national socialism. European-wide solutions were then seen as an essential condition for ensuring peace and economic development. I repeat, all the great challenges facing our countries and humanity have a European dimension – including the fight against inequalities, all too often seen as a matter of national policy. We support the principle of a Europe that defends peace and defends itself; security inside and outside our borders is at the heart of our citizens' concerns, as the world changes rapidly without ever being able to understand what is happening there. Our defence requires common means, but it first needs real shared orientations based on an assessment of priorities and issues, a methodology and an operational dialogue, to which our joint assembly can contribute. And let us not forget that security also has an economic dimension. Secondly, the issue of migration. Don't mention it would be nonsense. Beyond security, the migration challenge must be dealt with in a reasonable and effective manner by our two countries, each of which has a tradition of openness and exchange. With regard to humanitarian migration, greater solidarity is needed to ensure that the most exposed countries, particularly in southern Europe, have a real sense of belonging to a common border. No common rules are laid down at European Union level with regard to migration with economic dominance. This will have to be done, and here again we can contribute to the development of this common framework. So our new assembly is both a forum for discussion and a melting pot for future principles. Thirdly, the joint work we are considering in the field of artificial intelligence. It can be defined as a set of techniques that allow machines to perform tasks and solve problems normally reserved for humans and certain animals. In this area, there are three challenges ahead: that of research, which includes a component of the social sciences and humanities; machinery – it's about knowing what they will look like, in what economic sectors they will be developed and what the consequences will be; the need to reconcile the value of machines with human values, in order to achieve, in a way, an ethical artificial intelligence. We should reflect on how to provide real training in artificial intelligence, how to compensate for inequalities and how to gradually change regulation. To this end, we could consider a cycle of hearings, including by video conferencing, a mapping of the sectors and employees concerned, a study of legal issues. All this work could lead to budgetary and legislative proposals that we would make to our two parliaments and to the European institutions. We could also propose a monitoring activity on this or that aspect. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Let us not be mistaken about debate: we want to build a new public, democratic and social power capable of regulating and better responding to the challenges of globalization. Franco-German cooperation will help, because we are smarter together than isolated in our respective states. Let us hope one day to a European Republic with more than two members.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u57	[[At 10.20 a.m., Mr. Sylvain Waserman replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u58	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u59	On 22 January, Emmanuel Macron and Angela Merkel renewed in Aix-la-Chapelle the Franco-German friendship pact signed fifty-six years earlier by General de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer. This is the confirmation of a shared conviction: Franco-German understanding and cooperation have always depended, and still depend, on the fate and future of European integration. Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and Helmut Schmidt, François Mitterrand and Helmut Kohl, Jacques Chirac and Gerhard Schröder, Nicolas Sarkozy, then François Hollande and Angela Merkel were witnesses, depositaries and actors. This pact of friendship and enhanced cooperation, which takes the legal form of a treaty, is now being submitted to us for ratification, after it has been submitted to honourable senators. The IUD, Act and Independent Members obviously and naturally support this ratification. Europe is part of the DNA of our political family, heir to the founding fathers of Europe. A strong Europe is the only way to find solutions to the challenges facing our continent at the time. We all know that we will only be able to raise them together. We need to look at the world as it is. What is the reality for us? The migration issue, the ecological emergency, socio-economic questions, security uncertainties... None of these day-to-day concerns of our citizens find effective and sustainable solutions at the national level alone. But we also know that the doubts, the temptation to retreat and the often instrumentalised fears pass through the peoples of Europe and reflect on confidence in the construction of Europe, its usefulness and its very validity. It is because Europe has doubted itself over the last decade that our fellow citizens have doubted and continue to doubt it. Europe needs a compass and a captain who holds the helm, in good weather as in the middle of the storm. The Franco-German couple is precisely both this compass and this captain. I invite those who doubt the strength, effectiveness or necessity of this alliance to reread and meditate on the rostrum published by Gerhard Schröder in tribute to Jacques Chirac. The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, which intervenes in a context of great weather – a Brexit which reveals itself a little more every day a dead end for the British as for the Europeans; A creeping Euroscepticism – is much more than a treaty of friendship between two neighbouring countries. This is another step forward in the construction of Europe, the confirmation that our two long enemy nations, now sisters, have faith in this project, initiated in the aftermath of the most deadly conflict in history. It is no coincidence, moreover, that its opponents are recruited into the ranks of those who mainly have as ideology the retreat on themselves, identity or protectionist, and do not hesitate, in passing, to put forward false arguments. For, basically, what is contained in the Treaty of Aachen? The objectives it sets for economic cooperation and coordination in the fields of defence and foreign policy are in keeping with the Elysée Treaty and the policies implemented since then by our two countries. On these points, there is no revolution, but a form of updating and strengthening, legitimate and necessary, of the previous Treaty. Article 8, which has been able to feed the fantasies of opponents of European integration, confirms our common conviction that the world is multipolar and our commitment to the rule of law and international institutions. It does not prefigure a division of the French seat on the United Nations Security Council. In the field of culture, education and research, Articles 9 et seq. provide for the strengthening of exchange and mobility programmes, in particular those for young people. With regard to economic integration, Article 20 sets the objective of establishing a Franco-German economic zone with common rules. This is in no way a matter of abandoning sovereignty; The aim is to create the conditions for a better European competitiveness in the face of continental giants. We all know that the German and French economies have an effect on the whole of the European Union. The Treaty therefore follows the same logic that led to the creation of the euro area. In our view, the novelty lies more in the willingness to encourage cross-border cooperation. In order to measure the scope of this measure, however, it is essential not to consider it in isolation, as set out in the Treaty. It has to be analysed within a larger group: the Franco-German resolution adopted on the same day as the Treaty, of which it is the parliamentary counterpart, also sets the objective of concrete cross-border cooperation. For our border territories, this cooperation will mean, in the long term, more mobility for teachers, the possibility of establishing synergies between health institutions, training adapted to the needs of the cross-border employment pool, cross-border transport networks, and necessary administrative simplifications, particularly for frontier workers. These measures, taken as a whole, have the hope of consolidating Europe with the concrete, tangible, palpable that every citizen will be able to live on a daily basis. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] This Treaty is therefore a necessary step forward, which our group will support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u60	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u62	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u63	I could talk to you about the Franco-German concept. I could write about the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. I could insist on the major projects which aim to achieve this treaty and which the newly created Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly will be called upon to follow. Instead, let me give you testimony in my capacity as a Member of Parliament for Eastern Moselle, my constituency comprising Sarreguemines, on the German border. My fellow citizens and I already have the chance to live this partnership, this friendship encouraged by the treaty, in all the acts of daily life: transport, schools, learning, commerce, industry. I would like to tell you what Franco-German cooperation and the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle represent in practice for us. It is first of all the possibility of learning German, from the youngest classes. The rector of the Nancy-Metz Academy launched "the academic year of German", 250 partnerships having been identified in colleges and high schools. It is also mobility for our young people, who can take internships in German companies. It is also a soft mobility: the tram that connects Sarreguemines to Sarrebruck transports the inhabitants on both sides of the border, the young and the active, but also the tourists, curious to discover our countries. These are still thousands of jobs for our frontier workers: 22000 French people commute every day to work in Germany, which makes as many job seekers less on this side of the border. Finally, it is a strong industrial partnership, based on know-how and trust, because it takes 500 million euros to invest in a factory at home. Daimler did it, to transform the SMART plant and build its first fully electric Mercedes SUV. The fallout is enormous: the plant is sustainable; the 2000 employees are insured to keep their jobs, which will not be relocated; their families will be able to stay in this basin of life, which is in great need of it. And I'm not talking to you about the associated factories, the subcontractors, or the whole economic fabric, which sees it as a blessing. This is proof that, if we act together, Europe is strong and has a future. In addition, the Franco-German partnership has led to numerous associations or friendly exchanges, including between veterans, and numerous twinnings between municipalities that were still in war a little over seventy years ago. We no longer count marriages, conventions, especially between hospitals, firefighters, to treat or rescue the population, regardless of the side of the border where it is located. Let's add sports meetings, friendship parties, open doors, mutual invitations to commemorations. Finally, it may be anecdotal, but know that the German Honorary Consul in Metz is French. The Treaty of Aachen is an opportunity and an assurance. A chance to see that Europe on a daily basis is not a utopia and can be duplicated everywhere in the Union, provided there is political will. An assurance because, as long as the peoples enter into fruitful and positive exchanges, in a spirit of cooperation, they will be able to resist tensions and turbulence, the fears of another time that might prompt them to retreat to themselves and turn their backs on Europe. This Treaty is not a bizarre thing in our political landscape, but an example to follow, a course to be maintained so that the whole of Europe can be inspired by it and that European citizens can continue to live in peace, in good intelligence, with the values they carry, despite or with their specificities and differences. Being a European citizen means raising the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, without undermining the sovereignty of the countries that make up the Union. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The Treaty of Aachen is a necessity for me and for all the inhabitants I represent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u64	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u65	First of all, I will mention the confusion, both in form and content, of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty. As for this document, its only consistency, I stress, is that it undermines the sovereignty of the people, from its signature to its most concrete translations. Here I will try to denounce certain aspects of it. The Treaty was signed on 22 January by the President of the Republic and Chancellor Angela Merkel, even though no parliamentary debate had taken place on this subject. How can this treaty be amended, knowing that it has already been amended by the parties? Let's take it to say: we are figuring here. Appearances are important, but often misleading. In January, the President of the Republic committed himself to organizing a great national, democratic, exceptional debate on all important issues – never before seen! We were finally going to consult and listen! Its promoters sang the praises of this consultation, which was supposed to allow all to discuss key issues. Nor will I recall this democratic masquerade. The point was that at the same time, the President of the Republic whom you support signed a treaty with our German neighbour without any citizen being consulted or parliamentarians. This process is very strange...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u66	That's not the case of your colleagues who participated in the working group!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u67	Clearly, the truth irritates some colleagues. That's too bad. Our doctrine is that of popular sovereignty, for it is sovereignty only that which is expressed by the people, their institutions and their representatives. Concluded by an unacceptable method, this treaty also contains toxic and dangerous provisions. He endorsed the idea of a leading duo, an exclusive couple who decided everything and for everyone, that of France and Germany. Of course, we support Franco-German friendship and the principle of fraternity between peoples, which is at the heart of our political tradition. We have always said it, but it is necessary to remind it to prevent easy caricatures and staggered fantasies. In fact, that is what is unbearable: this Franco-German condominium runs counter to the very idea of European integration. This Treaty provides that France and Germany will develop "common positions" and agree on "coordinated words" in the European institutions. It is sending a terrible message to our European partners, especially to the countries of the South, who have our sympathy. The decision is dual, but its application is collective and binding. In such a perspective, how to convince? How can the other 26 Member States and their peoples accept it decently? Why not sign a treaty following the summit held in Rome on 10 February 2018 between France, Italy, Portugal and Greece? This blind follow-up of the German locomotive does not make sense or has only one: to stand up and remain silent in order to better comply with decisions contrary to the interests of the peoples. That is done, since our country was put in a minority when the renewal of the Glyphosate authorization was adopted for another five years and Mrs Merkel categorically refused President Macron's so-called "euro-zone budget". Let us take this opportunity to recall the danger facing Germany and, therefore, the whole of Europe. In September, the far right came second in the regional elections, behind Mrs Merkel's party. Let us not look at the reasons for such a result: Germany pursues a policy of regression, going back to the social rights conquered in high struggle for generations. We refuse to follow an economic model based on "mini-jobs", these precarious part-time jobs capped at 450 euros, without social contributions or retirement! The same model, at the heart of the European Union's economic policy, is responsible for 87 million poor people, not to mention the millions of unemployed. This treaty would therefore perpetuate a balance of power unfavourable to France. One of the tools of this convergence would be the creation of a "French-German economic council", oriented towards "competitiveness", responsible for making recommendations to our country, our own councils being obviously unable to deal with it. The social and environmental security displayed in this treaty is, however, hypocritical. Efforts are being made to reconcile the irreconcilable: the treaty advocates the protection of climate and biodiversity while reaffirming the commitment "to an open global market". On the contrary, we would like to reaffirm our doctrine of solidarity-based protectionism, which is the only way to put an end to the harmful effects of free trade, which we are constantly witnessing. From CETA pesticides – an overall economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada – to fisheries agreements that destabilize entire regions, proof of the failure of this economic model is no longer needed. We do not want this convergence from the bottom between the economies and social models of France and Germany. Not content with competing nations, this policy raises people against each other within each of them. The ideological environment in Europe and the rise of nationalism in Austria, Hungary and Poland must encourage vigilance. This Treaty once again aims at a stronger link to NATO and to defence Europe. At the time of the negotiation of the Elysée Treaty with Germany, it should be recalled, General de Gaulle had fought to protect our sovereignty by excluding any reference to the Atlantic Alliance. Is it not enough to vote on the military programming law, which puts our country under the United States' goal of devoting 2% of GDP to defence in 2022? For our part, we are on the side of French independence. It seems unacceptable to us that, under the pretext of "closer cooperation" between our defence industries, French technologies should be transferred to Germany. This country, supposedly our partner in this area, prefers Israeli equipment to the European Tiger helicopter. The same is true in the space sector: the German government does not give priority to the space launch of the joint rocket. Do you need any further proof of the fantasy of cooperation that is supposed to be reciprocal? Not to mention that the arms race to which Europe's defence is leading increases tensions with our Russian partner, more than it appeases them. Last March, the question of the permanent seat on the Security Council had agitated our discussions. We welcome the clarification of this issue. Nevertheless, it is expected that we will advocate the admission of Germany as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. Why this country and not another? This unilateral decision, however, is not without interest: its consequences for our political, diplomatic and defence positions are real. Would it not be more consistent to have a South American country – this continent is not represented in the Council – or India, where a seventh of the world's population lives? These questions are settled without us, or anyone else, while they would benefit from debate. Let us turn to Chapter 4 of the Treaty. The creation of special rights for border regions is a terrible violation of the principles of unity, equality and indivisibility of the law, the cornerstones of our Republic. Under Article 13 of the Treaty, border territorial authorities could become free zones with "appropriate powers" and "dedicated resources". We have our own communities with special status. If we want to create more, we will decide it ourselves. Germany has its own system: the Länder. Our territorial organization is different, and we would make a serious mistake if we called into question the historical construction at the origin of our system. In the end, this treaty is taking a step backwards that will permanently weaken our country, starting its sovereignty and trampling on social and environmental demands more than ever before. For all these reasons, we express our complete disagreement with this treaty. We invite you to think about it, ladies and gentlemen, because you will no doubt have to answer for its consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u68	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u69	The Treaty on Franco-German Cooperation and Integration will have caused a lot of ink since it was signed on 22 January 2019 in Aix-la-Chapelle. It is intended to be an extension of the Treaty of Versailles, signed 56 years ago, which tended to the most beautiful objective: to put an end to almost a century of wars between the French and German powers. The aspirations of the peoples to peace and friendship, immense at that time, were incumbent upon the rulers. Let us read the prophetic words that Missak Manouchian wrote in February 1944, a few hours before being shot: "When I die, I proclaim that I have no hatred against the German people and against anyone [...]. The German people and all other peoples will live in peace and fraternity after the war, which will not last long. » Peace and reconciliation were the compass of President de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer to rebuild a European world still enslaved by the Second World War, by the fascisms and totalitarianisms that had ravaged the world. The purpose of the treaty was to establish a rapprochement not so much between the leaders as between the French and German peoples, which had been launched against each other in several wars in the previous decades. To this end, the Treaty provided for simple, concrete and highly effective measures: valuing the language of the other country and encouraging its learning; intensification of school exchanges; Establishment of the Franco-German Youth Office; promotion of twinning between cities in the two states. We know how successful they were. The spirit of the 1960s was to end the war on European soil. This rapprochement is, in history, one of the great contributions to the culture of peace. It should continue to serve as an example, as these investments have been far more effective and sustainable than those made in military equipment under the foolish adage that war should be prepared for peace. This Treaty, signed by Emmanuel Macron and Angela Merkel last January, will complement the Treaty of Versailles of 1963. However, the twenty-eight provisions contained therein are far removed from the impetus given by de Gaulle and Adenauer. Before we go into detail, let's go back to the question of the Franco-German couple. This Treaty will strengthen the hard core of the European Union, which is being built on a forced march, driven by the will of two actors who thus claim to guide the 27 Member States of our Union. The two-speed European Union is likely to precipitate the fall of this construction, which puts 25 of its members on the brink of Franco-German decisions. Economic and regulatory convergence is not positive for three reasons. First, it promotes competition and dumping between the two economies, French and German. Friendship between trusts prevails here over friendship between peoples. Secondly, in the event of a Franco-German disagreement, as you know, the whole European Union will suffer and nothing will move. Thirdly, within the Franco-German couple, it is mainly Germany that leads, which enshrines the de facto supremacy of the German government over the European Union. Here are some examples: the blockages against the creation of the euro area budget ; Energy arbitration in favour of coal in Germany; the European Union's commitment to the negotiations to bring the treaty with Mercosur to a successful conclusion; and I shall pass. All these subjects need to be discussed at twenty-seven, one point that is all. But let's go to the bottom of the subject: several serious provisions enshrine this treaty. First of all, the preamble recalls the neoliberal principles that we reject and that have nothing to do with a treaty of friendship between two States, including the commitment to the convergence of the social and economic models of the two countries and the commitment of the two States to open globalization. Article 2, under the guise of improved coordination, indicates that the European directives will be transposed in a coordinated manner in Germany and France, which is worrying when it is known that certain provisions are timely overtransposed to favour the largest companies or those that have done the best lobbying. We are also concerned about Articles 3, 4 and 6 on cooperation in defence matters. First, France and Germany are committed to bringing their diplomatic positions closer together in multilateral institutions such as the United Nations or NATO. This is certainly not for the best, when we know Germany's Atlanticist positions. Secondly, even more serious, this treaty creates a Franco-German military intervention group whose contours are not indicated: how many military personnel? For what purpose? What command? Under what banner? Irrespective of all these issues, the creation of a military unit simply does not have its place, in our view, in a treaty of friendship. More generally, it should be stressed that European or Franco-German defence issues will not be resolved until European diplomacy is inoperative. How can we envisage a clear military intervention when there is no diplomatic agreement between all parties? Article 13 gives the possibility to derogate from national law in border areas, which introduces a potential breach of equality on French soil. At this stage, the Ministers have not provided a satisfactory answer to the many questions asked by our group on this subject. Article 20 aims to establish a "French-German economic zone with common rules", which will involve the harmonisation of the laws of the two countries, particularly in the field of business law. A "French-German Council of Economic Experts" will also be established. The objective of this economic zone is to "improve the competitiveness" of the two economies. All is said: it is not environmental rules or social harmonisation that will prevail in the long run, but this objective of competitiveness. Only seven of the twenty-eight articles of the Treaty are intended to promote cooperation or linguistic rapprochement. This is very light, and it says a lot about the deep purpose of this new text. Communist MEPs have already voted against this treaty in committee. They reiterate their concern at a text that does not respect the spirit of reconciliation, nor even that of peace proclaimed in 1963, but enshrines this neoliberal world, which creates inequalities from which we suffer day after day, moreover at the origin of the worrying rise of nationalisms and identity retreats on the European continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u70	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u71	On September 22, 1984, just thirty-five years ago, in Verdun, in front of the ossuary of Douaumont, in homage to the deaths of 1914-1918, in an unexpected manner, François Mitterrand and Helmut Kohl took hands. The unexpected image of these two heads of state, united in the memory of fratricidal wars to seal a reconciliation and a renewed friendship, must inspire us to a great deal of humility. We must understand that it is together that we will move forward in a world that is constantly changing, subject to economic, financial and security threats. Together, this means Germany and France, through cooperation treaties such as the one proposed to allow ratification today, but it also means a strong Europe with values, unity and the future. General de Gaulle and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer achieved the reconciliation of our two countries in 1963. The gesture of François Mitterrand and Helmut Kohl opened the age of friendship. It is up to us to continue the commitment of these illustrious predecessors. It is up to us to continue to foster this unprecedented network of bilateral relations between the civil societies of our two countries and between their governments at all levels. In the face of the challenges that France and Germany, as well as Europe, are facing in the 21st century, it is necessary to bring our economies and social models together, to promote cultural diversity and to bring our societies and citizens closer together. It is not a pious wish, but an ambition that can become a reality if we ratify this treaty and quickly implement it. That is why, as you will understand, the Libertés et territoires Group is in favour of this bill authorizing the ratification of the Treaty of Aachen. This mutual strengthening is all the more necessary as it will be reflected in Europe as it becomes fragile. Around it are increasingly powerful blocks: China organizes its expansion with silk roads; India is making steady progress in the mastery of new technologies; Russia is trying to win forward posts in the East. I do not forget the United States and its return to protectionism, whether it is customs or a wall of shame. To implement this Treaty, a list of 15 priority projects has been drawn up. Among them is the strengthening of high-level bilateral cooperation on energy and climate. The Liberties and Territories Group welcomes the fact that such a course of action has been adopted in view of the urgency of the situation. In October 2017, the Director of the United Nations Environment Programme stated that there was "a catastrophic gap" between the commitments made by States to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and the efforts needed to comply with the Paris Agreement. This warning obliges us, and we must be the first in Europe to engage in a decisive battle, saving humanity. We must give ourselves the means to achieve this energy transition. We have for ourselves the experience of the past; We have already been able to find together the resources necessary to move forward. Let us remember: did President François Mitterrand and Chancellor Helmut Kohl not know, in six months, how to create a bank to finance the transition of countries under Soviet influence after the fall of the Berlin Wall? Have we not been able to invest quickly and radically in research to invent Airbus and Ariane? And we already have the European Investment Bank. So why not create a European climate bank and put finance at the service of the common good, by sealing a European climate-employment pact with our two countries as the driving forces? Would France and Germany be prepared to take such an initiative, to show Europe the way? The Franco-German couple will have to overcome another obstacle: the Brexit. The UK's exit from the European Union will increase the weight of our two countries: they will account for almost 50% of the euro area's GDP and almost one third of the Union's population. Let us make this change of situation an asset for Europe, thanks to the dynamism of the Franco-German couple. At the same time, as today's world is increasingly complex, especially from a security point of view, we must not forget the consequences of our arms sales on the world's messes. According to a report published by the Ministry of Armed Forces, our arms sales increased by 30% in 2018 to €9.1 billion. Article 4 of the Treaty provides that France and Germany "will develop a common approach to arms exports with regard to joint projects". However, it seems that our two countries have different approaches to arms exports. For example, Germany has suspended its arms exports to countries directly involved in the conflict in Yemen, while France seems less virtuous in this regard. That is why I hope that this treaty, which provides for joint projects on the sale of arms, will lead us to greater prudence and respect for human rights. In another area, I would like to stress our support for the creation of the common citizen fund, designed to support joint projects by civil society actors, including citizen initiatives and town twinning. In committee, the rapporteur assured us that we had obtained from the Quai d'Orsay the certainty that there would be a budget line in the next finance bill for this citizens' fund established by the Treaty. We will be extremely vigilant on this point, because this Treaty must not be a catalogue of good intentions; It must lead to concrete and funded measures. This citizens' fund is important: it will facilitate the completion of small projects carried out by French and German citizens in an enhanced approach to local cooperation. We must trust the territories and those who live there, their capacity for initiative, their common sense, their understanding of the heart. All the ideas emerging from the ground that can be realized through this decentralised cooperation will be like a harvest that is being reaped for the common good of our two countries. This bilateral agreement opens up huge and promising projects for the future. Our determination must live up to this immensity. By allowing the ratification of this Treaty, we commit ourselves to continuing "the great undertaking, ambitious, peaceful and fraternal" which Jacques Chirac spoke of on 3 October 2000, just nineteen years ago, in a speech delivered in Dresden on the anniversary of the reunification of Germany.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u72	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u73	It is an honour for me to speak today, as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs and a member of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Treaty on Franco-German Cooperation and Integration, the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. Fifty-six years after the signing of the Elysée Treaty, and thirty-five years after the handshake between President François Mitterrand and Chancellor Helmut Kohl, the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly held its second public meeting last week in Berlin. On that occasion, we unanimously adopted its Rules of Procedure. Our first vote was on the adoption of the resolution on the ratification of the Treaty of Aachen, on which we are voting today. Through our vote, we will enshrine the outcome of a new dimension of cooperation, both governmental and parliamentary. We will concretely implement the new partnership that the President of the Republic proposed to our German friends in his speech by the Sorbonne. This dynamic, which began with the signing of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle and the Franco-German parliamentary agreement at the beginning of the year, reflects our desire to renew and strengthen the basis of our cooperation. It is for us to make friendship between our peoples ever more concrete and visible to our citizens. This Franco-German cooperation will have several interests. First of all, cooperation will be strengthened on subjects specifically related to France and Germany. I will give some concrete examples in this regard. First, the two states will establish a common citizen fund to support joint civil society projects – Clément has just mentioned it. It is also through the strengthening of twinning and the implementation of citizen initiatives that we will succeed in perpetuating the friendship of the peoples. We must recognise, encourage and deepen decentralised cooperation between municipalities, regions and Länder. Secondly, cultural cooperation will play a decisive role in future joint work. Beyond the creation of a common cultural and media space, we will further develop mobility and exchange programmes between our countries, as well as mutual learning of each other's language. I will never mention enough the efforts made by the Franco-German Youth Office in this regard. We also have to strengthen the ability to convince beyond the Franco-German couple. Our collaboration will first be based on points of convergence allowing France and Germany to unite and train their European partners without imposing joint projects on them. The most relevant example seems to me to be our joint competition initiative. Since the Alstom-Siemens affair, France and Germany have been calling for the creation of national and European champions: they all stress the need to adapt European competition law in this direction. After bilateral consolidation of the strong ties between us, we will have the opportunity to be at the origin of a genuine European adership and to create the conditions for wider consultation between the 27 Member States of the European Union. Finally, our increased cooperation must enable us to engage in more dialogue and move forward, including on issues of divergence. President Macron said in his speech from the Sorbonne about Franco-German cooperation: "We will not agree on everything, or not immediately, but we will discuss everything. Concertation is a force, especially on issues on which our positions are not aligned. France and Germany can thus strengthen their capacity to work together on sensitive topics on which they do not always share the same point of view. Let me also mention the question of the Western Balkans, which is dear to me and which is the subject of a different approach on the part of our partners: while we all recognize the importance of offering a European perspective to this region, in order to preserve it from the influence of non-European states, we have not yet managed to reach agreement on this. The cooperation that we wish to strengthen through the ratification of this Treaty must therefore be a tool that will allow us to agree on such matters. In fact, parliamentary cooperation has its full place, whether through the work of our respective competent committees – the Foreign Affairs Committees of the Bundestag and the National Assembly – or through the work of the new Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These various reasons which I have set out naturally lead me to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of authorising the ratification of the Treaty between the French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on Franco-German cooperation and integration signed in Aix-la-Chapelle on 22 January 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u74	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u75	Mr. Little, I would like to reassure you that we are forming alliances with other countries. At the diplomatic level, for six months I have been in office, we have been working with the Spanish and Portuguese on certain subjects, with the Nordic countries on others, with Italy of course, or with the countries of Eastern Europe. Our European relationship with Germany is therefore not exclusive. This would be a mistake, since France and Germany do not have the majority in Europe: we therefore need allies. That is why we are expanding our work according to the themes. Mr Hetzel, I would also like to reassure you that the seat in Strasbourg is not negotiable, for the simple reason that it is enshrined in the European Treaties. However, I do not know that anyone, to date, has planned to revise them in any negotiation. The other reason is that this seat is, in my view, a political act: the European Union, like the United States of America, does not have Washington D.C.: Brussels is not the only capital. The various European authorities are scattered throughout the Union, and it is indeed a political act to want to bring the authorities we have in common closer to the citizens. The headquarters of the European Maritime Safety Agency are in Lisbon, the headquarters of the European Fisheries Control Agency in Vigo, the headquarters of the European Union Agency for Railways in France, in Valenciennes, i.e. it is not located in the capital. Moreover, I have made the political choice to go to every plenary session in Strasbourg – never in Brussels – and to meet the European parliamentarians there: to date, I have met them very frequently, which shows that our approach to this matter is active.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u76	The President of the Republic must do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u77	I will pass on the message to him, even if I think that this is not the subject of debate. We have no plans to propose a revision of the Treaty on this subject. Mr Waserman, I would like to thank you for your remarks reminding us that our Europe is not only political and economic, but also carnal. We can indeed base on our personal stories, which may have been painful, the hope that history will not be repeated. I was very moved by the words you used about what this treaty can represent for a family like yours. Even if family stories do not make European politics, I believe that they fuel their ambition. Thank you very much. As far as artificial intelligence is concerned, we do have a joint training and investment project; improving daily life is a key element of cross-border cooperation. Mr Corbière, we have other ambitions than to sign treaties with Germany. The launch by the President of the Republic of the Treaty of Quirinal, which was parallel to that of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, is intended to bring us as substantially closer to Italy. We are pleased to see that the new Italian government is ready to work with us to revive this treaty and give it new prospects. I hope the National Assembly can ratify it. I would also like to remind you that, according to article 52 of the Constitution, treaties fall within the competence of the President of the Republic. However, parliamentarians have been involved, upstream, in the work on the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, unlike many others: you have a somewhat outmoded view of both our constitutional order and the work on this treaty. Finally, Mr Clément, you asked me about the common citizen fund. It is an essential project, because, as I have already pointed out, Franco-German friendship and the rapprochement of peoples and projects cannot depend solely on policies: civil societies must be involved. Our ambition is to launch many projects as early as 2020. The mission of the Franco-German Youth Office is to act as a facilitator. These projects will have to target not only youth but all audiences. I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss, in the context of the finance bill, the means and organization of this fund. I have been particularly involved in this matter, not only to find the financial means but above all to determine the types of innovative projects that our companies need today to get closer. We must also, I repeat, target audiences other than young school children and twinning actors, in particular young people or young professionals, in the priority areas of city policy, in which, at times, the Franco-German relationship is not known. We need to open our horizons. We are fully mobilized on the subject: the acts will, I hope, follow ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u78	[[At 11.10 a.m., Mr. Richard Ferrand replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u79	We have completed our review of the bill. I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that the public vote on this draft would take place on Tuesday, 8 October, after questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u80	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on a dynamic and forward-looking Franco-German friendship at the service of Europe and for the swift and ambitious implementation of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle (point 2270).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u81	In the general debate, Mr Christophe Arend spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u82	History can be manipulated: that is why, in the preamble to my remarks, I would just like to point out that Franco-German history is not limited to the last three wars. A little more than a month ago I attended the laying of 204 Napoleonic soldiers on the side of Frankfurt, because in 1813 Mont-Tonnerre – Donnersberg in German –, located a few kilometres from Frankfurt, was indeed a French prefecture. Today we will take a decision on the first parliamentary resolution on which the proposal emanates from the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly. In reality, this is the third text to be adopted identically in the Bundestag and the National Assembly. A first joint resolution was adopted on 22 January 2018. The parliamentary agreement establishing the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly was then adopted on 11 March. History not only shows us how effective parliamentary work is, but also how inseparable it is today, more than ever, from government action, when it comes to building Europe by bringing its peoples closer together. It is therefore of course that the members of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly propose to take a decision on a joint resolution on accompanying the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle which we have just examined. Together, on behalf of the French nation, we propose that we affirm that Franco-German friendship is the driving force behind European unification, and that the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly must have the means to reinvigorate and modernise cooperation between France and Germany. It is in this sense that this resolution strongly encourages the French and German governments to rapidly implement the Franco-German Cooperation and Integration Treaty, while at the same time assuming a high level of ambition. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly focuses on eight themes, in which its members will be committed as a matter of priority. There is a need for rapid, visible and concrete results. To this end, exchanges between French and German citizens should be encouraged and increased. To this end, our States are obliged to set up a common citizen fund enhanced by a dedicated public platform. The Franco-German border region is the athanor of convergence between our peoples. We believe that the Committee on Cross-Border Cooperation, which sat for the first time in an informal meeting on Monday 30 September in Strasbourg and which should be formalized by the French and German secretaries for Franco-German cooperation at the Council of Ministers on 16 October, is the place where solutions to improve the daily lives of citizens must be developed and implemented. A genuine instrument whose purpose is to be reproduced on other French or German borders, this committee is the tool of European integration par excellence. Germany and France must empower themselves to implement the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly wants to be the driving force behind a carbon pricing initiative for sectors not covered by the European emissions trading system. The Franco-German Council of Economic Experts will soon have to be set up in order to work on a common economic code that will harmonise business law, bankruptcy law or the calculation of corporate tax. The two national economies must be integrated into a Franco-German economic zone. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly will support joint initiatives on breaking innovation. The civilizational shift proposed by present and future technological progress can only be negotiated through increased Franco-German cooperation in the development and implementation of common strategies, projects and values. The forum for the future of France and Germany must quickly be set up in order to reflect together on the profound changes that will be taking place in our societies. Here again, the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly affirms its willingness to take part in the adventure and its elected representatives want to be involved early and comprehensively in the rigorous implementation and future of the Franco-German agenda. It also encourages our two States to inform it of the progress of the work of the Franco-German Defence and Security Council, in order to contribute to the rapprochement, through the dialogue within it, of views on arms exports, bilateral projects and respective positions concerning the European Union. Our motion for a resolution is ambitious. We believe that Franco-German cooperation is the sine qua non for revitalising European integration. We believe that national representations have a leading role to play in the implementation of this programme. We believe that European integration is the only guarantee of lasting peace and that only lasting peace can guarantee human progress in modern societies that meet the demands and challenges of tomorrow. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Long live Franco-German friendship as a driving force for European integration!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u83	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u84	The parallels join, even if it is infinitely, even if such an assertion can call our colleague Cédric Villani: the parallels can join. In this case, we have two parallel approaches. The first is an approach of the executive – the President of the Republic, the Chancellor –, with the Treaty of Aachen, signed this year and pursuing, complementing, even exceeding the treaty of the Elysée of 1963, treaty of reconciliation and major success of the post-war period. The second is a legislative approach – the National Assembly and the Bundestag – with a parliamentary agreement, the creation of a Franco-German parliamentary assembly and the motion for a resolution before you. These two approaches are united in their aims: to develop cooperation, partnership and friendship between our two countries, between our two peoples, between France and Germany. The role of parliamentary diplomacy should not be overlooked. There is no democracy without parliament, without a strong parliament: parliamentary control is the very essence of democracy. Hence the initiative of the Assembly and the Bundestag to conclude an agreement and to create an assembly composed of fifty French Members and fifty German Members; Hence this motion for a resolution on the rapid and ambitious implementation of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. This Treaty enshrines threefold cooperation, threefold convergence. First of all, cooperation in the field of culture and education, through the citizens' fund – a concrete initiative for which the Secretary of State has committed herself to finding funding. It is also a cooperation on research, artificial intelligence, digital technology – this is the future, if we do not want to be the mere spectators of the China-US match – and the energy transition, because we must ensure the proper implementation of the Paris Agreement. Finally, it is cross-border cooperation on matters affecting the daily life of our citizens, particularly in the field of transport – and in particular with regard to the rail services of the three Länder of Saarland, Baden-Württemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate. As far as defence cooperation is concerned, what a symbol, ladies and gentlemen, after three wars between our two countries in less than a century, of working on a plane and a tank of the future! The positions of our German partners are evolving and moving closer to ours, especially with regard to arms exports – in full compliance, of course, with international law. This cooperation is necessary – although, I agree, it is not necessarily sufficient – and is intended to open up to other countries, in the service of a Europe that protects citizens and sovereign nations, a Europe that cannot be reduced to a free trade area or a simple bank counter – what sadness, what small if it were! – a Europe that must regain its voice, its soul, its identity, so dear to Romain Gary and his European Education; This shared culture wanted by Romain Rolland, who saw in France and Germany the two wings of the West: "Who breaks one prevents the other from flying," he said. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] So, ladies and gentlemen, let us look together in the same direction and vote on this motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u85	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u86	The treatise of the Elysée resisted the test of time. Signed in 1963, 56 years ago, this Treaty and its provisions are still echoed in our Parliament. Indeed, it was in this perspective of reconciliation that close relations between France and Germany continued. At the end of January, we were able to witness a new phase of Franco-German cooperation. The President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, and the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, have signed a new Franco-German treaty on cooperation and integration, which we will ratify next Tuesday. France and Germany, by showing their willingness to strengthen their friendship, wanted to send a clear message: to face together the permanent challenges of the 21st century. This new stage is essential in the necessary work of convergence of the two largest powers of the European Union. The Treaty is now being translated into Parliament with the creation on 25 March of the first Franco-German parliamentary assembly. As a member of this new assembly, I am delighted to make a concrete contribution to this common story that we want to write. Its objective is to implement operational, pragmatic and common processes in order to boost our partnerships. It is for this purpose that the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly recently adopted, at its second meeting in Berlin, the resolution that we are presenting this morning to national representation. It is not a question of neglecting our relations with our other neighbours, but France and Germany have more than ever a leading role to play, which is essential for all European players. If our two countries achieve greater convergence through ambitious work, the Union will only be able to build on it and make progress. The strengthening of the construction of a relationship of peace and cooperation between France and Germany is from the outset part of a perspective that goes beyond the bilateral framework. It is customary to hear that when the Franco-German engine works well, Europe moves forward; This adage has never been denied. Considered as the cement of a united Europe, the raison d'être of the Franco-German tandem remains the European construction. This does not mean that both countries share a perfectly identical vision. Nevertheless, in the face of the successive crises of the last 50 years, the capacity of initiative and dialogue demonstrated by the Franco-German couple has confirmed the interest in Europe that the leaders of Paris and Berlin reach a common perspective. The stakes are high. That is why our two countries must constantly enrich an open relationship based on common values of pluralism, solidarity and justice – and it is a non-Alsatian who affirms it! I am convinced that our two countries can now only progress by advancing on two legs: an economic leg and a social leg – with an ecological conscience, of course. Thus, measures 3 and 4 of the motion for a resolution, which enable better implementation of the Paris climate agreement through carbon dioxide pricing extended to many sectors or the development of a Franco-German economic code, are directly part of this convergence of social, economic and ecological standards to which MODEM is particularly committed. While France and Germany often have very different approaches in these three areas, the motion for a resolution demonstrates the will of our two assemblies to harmonise and unite their strategies. The exchange arrangements must extend and extend the links established by previous generations, in order to strengthen our bilateral and cross-border cooperation – the Committee on Cross-Border Cooperation should contribute to this, as should the association of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly with the future common agenda and the priority projects that will be included in it. Moreover, this proposal does not stop at legislative initiatives: it aims to consolidate cooperation in the field of research and innovation, through the creation of a working group on artificial intelligence, and to involve civil society through the creation of a forum for the Franco-German future. The citizens' fund will be set up for this purpose. Finally, initiatives for greater cooperation in the field of peace, security and development have more than symbolic value. It is a matter of being concrete, of translating this will on the ground and in all territories. The ambition of parliamentarians is reflected in the text we are debating today. We look forward to acting in a rapid and concerted manner with the convergence of standards and the objective of better European integration. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Jean-Jacques Gaultier also applauds]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement wishes to welcome the work done on this motion for a resolution; We naturally give him our full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u87	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u88	The conclusion of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle is both a new impetus for Franco-German cooperation and an expression of a shared will to increase its effectiveness. He does not in any way erase the treaty of the Elysée; On the contrary, it affirms its topicality and ambition, in the face of major challenges that we have to face in a complicated European context. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly is fully committed to this objective. It is not the least of the measures in the Treaty; She looks like a bet to me. It is our responsibility, as members of this House, to make it live fully, without doubt by revisiting our working methods, by making it widely available to the other members of our two parliaments, to the Members of our committees, without the spirit of exclusivity. We now need to make it live fully. This assembly could appear as an abstract device; On the contrary, it is a major and unprecedented institutional tool. For the first time in the history of France and Germany, it is within the parliamentary framework that a debate is organised, and that we are offered to share a word, to deliberate together, to support and drive convergent actions and to convince our governments to carry out such actions, not just to suggest them. With its few months of existence, the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly has become a place for reflection, comparison, inspiration and exchange on our respective institutions. Mutual respect lives in us, and it was with great patience and efficiency that we were able, together, to draft a rules of procedure, adopted almost unanimously – with the exception of the Alternative Party for Germany, the AfD –; Of course, it has been the subject of compromise, but these have enabled us to take account of our mutual requirements. The Bundestag teaches us a lot about a political system in which Parliament is powerful. We are discovering German Members whose relations with the Chancery are very different from those we have with our government: the Bundestag, the spearhead of representation, really treats as equal with the chancery. Let us remember that Angela Merkel consults her parliament before the European Councils are held: this must inspire us. The Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly therefore offers our two countries a different institutional framework in which to engage in an ambitious and in-depth reflection. Let us also take advantage of its existence to ask ourselves about the place and role of the National Assembly in Brussels, and about the creation of a joint permanent full-function representative to all the European institutions. The establishment of such an assembly must now lead to concrete operations. First, we call on our respective governments to set up the citizens' fund as early as 2020. This is the visible tool of decentralised cooperation, whose twinning between our two countries is one of the great standards. A dedicated platform would support innovative cooperation projects and update old relationships, which await only this new breath to involve various interest groups. To be concrete is also to ensure that the citizens' fund is budgeted in the finance bill for 2020 and provided with sufficient appropriations: at this stage, nothing seems to be done, which we are concerned about. Germany would devote an important budget to this; I hope that the amount proposed for France – it is about EUR 1 million – will allow the two countries to be placed on an equal footing from the start in 2020. The motion for a resolution also emphasises the application of the Paris climate agreement and an extension of carbon dioxide pricing to sectors not yet covered by the European emissions trading system. The Paris agreement means urgent action, and our parliamentary assembly will keep reminding us of this demand. Finally, and among other things, the motion for a resolution identifies the importance of cooperation on issues such as digital technology. As a sign of its vitality, the Franco-German Assembly decided, as soon as its Rules of Procedure were adopted last September, and almost unanimously by its members – the AfD less, again – to set up a working group on break-up innovations and artificial intelligence. The scope of investigation entrusted to him is very broad, since he will have to reflect on the ethical dimension of new technologies, on their ecological impact and on the security and intelligence issues that should arise in the course of their development. It will also have to develop a common legal framework. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Sylvain Waserman also applauds]] In presenting this motion for a resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly guarantees, in a way, the continuous expression of citizen speech in the application of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u89	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u90	On the occasion of the day of German unity, you recalled, Madam Minister, that the treaty of the Elysée concluded between President Charles de Gaulle and Chancellor Adenauer fifty years ago was intended to engage France and Germany on the path of reconciliation. That of Aix-la-Chapelle, which we will ratify next week, extends this desire for rapprochement by putting it in the context of our time, with the ambition to strengthen Europe in the face of the challenges of our generation. It is no longer a matter of reconciling, curing the stigma of two bloody conflicts, but of reconciling two points of view on the priority subjects, two ways of making democracy live, two cultures of public action. Indeed, in all these areas, the natural slope of each one for himself would lead us to the crisis. It would produce disagreements and conflicts that in the long term would threaten the stability of the old continent and that of its institutions. Therefore, strengthening our cooperation is not an optional option, but a vital necessity. Whether it is the climate, the economy or social standards, we need to move forward more hand in hand. On behalf of my group, I therefore wish to encourage all the initiatives of the Head of State and Government that will lead to a better understanding. But there is still a need to involve our peoples, starting with the parliamentary assemblies that came out of the expression of their vote. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, Mr President, for your personal involvement in the creation of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly. In Paris, no one dares to imagine that a major political choice will not be approved by Parliament; It's even more true in Berlin. Thus, the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly is an indispensable tool for strengthening and implementing the desire for cooperation expressed at the summit of the two states. That is the meaning of this first resolution that we are considering today. I had the privilege of participating in its development, which was above all a work of mutual understanding. On this occasion, I found that, as soon as possible, we all wanted to realize the objectives of the new Treaty of Friendship to enable it to respond to the concerns of citizens. This is the object of the first two wishes, and in particular the creation of a citizens' fund, or the setting up of a committee on cross-border cooperation. As a result of our discussions, consensus has also emerged on more structural policy choices in the climate area in terms of CO taxation, business taxation and digital research. Yes, I said "consensus" – a word so natural in the country of the great coalition and almost incongruous in the one where one celebrates the capture of the Bastille. From the point of view of methodology, the French delegation will at least have learned that it is possible to advance ideas or to be his Government's sting without necessarily registering in a balance of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u92	This lesson will be valuable when it comes to getting to grips with less easy topics, to look at the approximation of our energy policies, to talk about defence or immigration. For my part, I hope that the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly can quickly debate a resolution on the preservation of the Amazonian forest and its indigenous peoples, or agree on support for the seat of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, as the future President of the European Commission recently did. But let us not be naive: there will be no agreement on all matters. Paradoxically, I even consider that the acceptance, knowingly, of our differences will be even more enlightening to validate the choices we make in this house. Everyone is accountable to the history and culture of his country, only mutual ignorance is reprehensible. I therefore hope that all the Standing Committees of the National Assembly will have regular relations with their counterparts in the Bundestag, like the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has already scheduled an exchange for next November. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I listened yesterday to the French and German national anthems in the gardens of the Hôtel de Beauharnais, I was once again struck by the radically opposed political projects they express. However, if we have the intelligence to combine it, this difference will be a wealth: wealth for our parliaments, wealth for our peoples, wealth for Europe. This is the essence of this first Franco-German resolution, which the IUD, Action and Independents Group fully supports.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u93	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u94	I am speaking to support this resolution, of which I am a co-signatory with several of my colleagues, and to show the importance that our group attaches to this matter. Although the Rhine has not been a border between France and Germany for a long time, we must, however, continue to bring its two shores closer together. And there is no shortage of subjects: the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, signed on 22 January, is a perfect illustration of this. The desire of our two countries to cooperate more and to move towards greater integration in the economic, legal, fiscal, social, scientific and cultural fields is, in the view of the Freedom and Territory Group, positive not only for France and Germany but also for Europe. Victor Hugo, in his fictional book The Rhine, said that France and Germany were the head and heart of Europe. Today, we would say that they are the driving force behind it, a motor driven by a friendship built in the abyss of history and carried by the consciousness of a community of destiny. The Treaty of Aachen, which we have just authorised to ratify, must now be implemented quickly. The world is moving fast and is not waiting for us; That is why our group supports the motion for a resolution which clearly states that our House wants the provisions of the text to be implemented quickly and ambitiously. Although the resolution has no binding value, our opinion on the implementation of the Treaty represents a strong political message that it is our duty to express. Beyond good intentions, it is essential to give concrete effect to the measures contained in the Treaty: it is about the credibility of this agreement, which is more than a treaty of friendship, and the rehabilitation of our work with our fellow citizens. We also need to set an example in a Europe gangred by self-absorbing and populism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u95	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u96	Europe needs a new breath where people would end up behind a common ambition, that of living together. That is what the Treaty and the motion for a resolution are all about. It is divided into eight suggestions reflecting the impatience of the signatories of the two countries, which belong to various political movements. With this in mind, I believe that the early establishment of the Cross-Border Cooperation Committee is a priority, since the Committee is called upon to play a pivotal role among all interested parties – public or private. It would make the Treaty more readable for our citizens and would also be a way of responding to the sceptics on either side of the Rhine. Too often, our international commitments are ignored by peoples when they do not feed populism. We must demonstrate the opposite and make the implementation of the Treaty an unprecedented exercise of democracy. From a political point of view, it seems to me essential that our respective parliaments be involved as early as possible in the implementation of the Franco-German agenda and the priority projects contained therein, as well as the multiannual programme. Indeed, it would not be understood that, with regard to the very essence of our democracies, the representatives of our respective peoples are not informed by our rulers until diplomatic exchanges have taken place. We want the forum we represent to embody a true new era in terms of ways of doing things; This will give more force to future decisions. Similarly, we believe that the commitments made on the occasion of the Franco-German defence and security councils should be brought to our attention as accurately and as quickly as possible. The complexity of today's world and the speed of its evolution, if it should lead us to vigilance, must not make us forget the consequences of our arms sales on the disorders that we are contributing to, even though it is disarmament that should be debated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u98	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Another subject could be quickly debated, as the urgency is great: the strengthening of cooperation in the field of research and the digital transition. Europe invented Airbus, thirty years later, a few days ago, we were celebrating success in Berlin with my colleagues in the office of the Franco-German Assembly. But Europe has also invented the internet and touch screens; Why wouldn't she be able to invent tomorrow the car or computer of the future? Why would Germany and France not take these challenges together? These great mutations will not be against each other, but with each other. The Treaty of Aachen must give us an opportunity to demonstrate this. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us be ambitious for our countries, our peoples, the future and our youth, but also for peace and the planet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u99	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u100	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u101	The motion for a resolution before us today is in line with the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle signed last January by the French President and the German Chancellor. It takes up a proposal adopted by the Franco-German Assembly on 23 September. On these two occasions already, the group to which I belong objected to the provisions contained in this text; We will do it again today. First of all, it is an opposition in principle to a vision of Europe as a Franco-German condominium. No one disputes the friendship between our two peoples. Let us not be accused of doing so, we the heirs of Jaurès, who in 1905 already made himself, to and against all, the advocate of "sustainable peace, confident peace between Germany and France". But it is precisely because we are petrified by the great internationalist tradition that we reject the Franco-German duopoly, which obsessed so much with the authors of this text. They claim to put Franco-German friendship at the service of Europe; In truth, they are rejuvenating and destroying Europe by reducing it to a bilateral dialogue between two nations which would arrogate the right to walk in the head and dictate their will to others. How would Madrid, Rome or Warsaw accept such a hierarchy? Because we believe in full cooperation between the peoples of Europe and the world, we reject this Franco-German Europe. Cooperation among the peoples we defend cannot be built at the cost of denying their sovereignty and independence. That is the second reason why we oppose the vision expressed in this text. At the outset and as a matter of principle, linking France to common positions with Germany, before European meetings as well as more broadly in the field of defence and security, would mean abandoning the vocation of our country "to act for itself in Europe and in the world", as General de Gaulle said. Depossessing the French Parliament of some of its prerogatives for the benefit of the French-German council of economic or defence experts; undo the unity and indivisibility of the Republic by saucissoning its territory into improbable cross-border communities with uncertain status and differentiated law; imagining forms of joint elaboration of French and German rights: it would be trampling on Article 3 of our Constitution, which proclaims that "national sovereignty belongs to the people". As defenders of this national sovereignty, which is precisely the sovereignty of the people and which represents the foundation of our Republic, we cannot agree to give it up for the benefit of a Franco-German chimera. Moreover, if we believe in consolidating the so-called Franco-German engine, it would actually only lead to a little more strengthening of the German and austere Europe in which we already live today. The formula and the observation are of the great German sociologist Ulrich Beck, little suspicious of the Germanophobia and populism whose opponents will not fail to accuse us. It is high time to consider our relationship with Germany with lucidity: the Treaty of Aachen referred to today is only the last stage of the policy that Mr Macron has pursued since the beginning of his term of office. The President has repeatedly given a pledge to the German Chancellor, bringing France to the mill of austerity in the hope of rescuing concessions: an economic recovery in the euro area, better governance of the euro area, a mutualisation of sovereign debts. What did he get? Absolutely nothing. The budget of the euro area, which Mr Macron so praised, gave birth to a mouse. Berlin continues to refuse to abandon its austere dogma. How can we believe in these conditions that the economic and social convergence proposed to us today would be something other than a levelling down, towards the so-called social and ecological least? Worse, Germany claims France's permanent seat on the UN Security Council. Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, president of the Conservative Party, publicly told Mr Macron in the open letter – we should say the camouflet – that she addressed to France last March. The military cooperation Berlin is willing to consider is in fact a transfer of French technology to Germany, and a defence that is blazed to NATO. In all this there is a clear recognition of the policy which Germany has pursued almost continuously since the beginning of European integration, using cooperation with its neighbours to regain to their detriment the capabilities it had lost in 1945, without yielding anything in return. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is not enough to expect Franco-German friendship to make this reasoned assessment today: our country does not have the same interests as the great coalition that governs our neighbour today. Burning into the marble a special relationship with Germany would be a dupe market. We can't accept it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u102	I don't agree, but congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u103	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u104	The motion for a resolution, presented at the last meeting of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly on 23 September, is the result of a reflection led by the parliamentarians of our two nations and validated by the two majorities. But, as you know, the Communist Members voted against the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, as the share reserved for competition and free trade is greater than that which concerns friendship between peoples and cultural and intellectual cooperation. First of all, we must consider the way in which this text was drawn up: whereas the Germans actually co-built it with parliamentarians, local elected representatives and citizens' associations, in France, we only learned of its existence a few days before it was signed. Our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq has repeatedly asked the question without ever getting an answer: who therefore wrote this treaty in France, if not Elysée and technostructure? Then, on the occasion of the discussion of this resolution, two weeks ago, in the framework of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, the members of the groups of the Democratic and Republican Left and Die Linke, who opposed it, proposed an alternative resolution entitled "For peace, disarmament and understanding in Europe", designed to make the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle a true update of the Treaty of Versailles signed in 1963,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u105	The Treaty of Versailles? Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u106	...which initiates reconciliation and the return of friendship between our two peoples. But the French and German majorities decided to vote against our proposal. I would like to return to this draft resolution, which called for, among other things, the rejection of any measure facilitating arms exports and the restriction of such trade to the maximum, bearing in mind that Germany and France are among the largest arms exporters in the world. This is also, in our view, the culture of peace: Communist Members stand firmly against arms sales, especially when they are used in atrocious wars like the one currently being waged by Saudi Arabia in Yemen. In fact, the current situation is right because Germany has recently changed its arms export policy to the benefit of France. So far, it has prohibited our country from exporting weapons to Saudi Arabia, partly made up of German equipment, effectively blocking several deliveries. But a compromise was reached: Germany would no longer oppose exports from French industrialists, provided that the level of German equipment or components did not exceed 20% of the military equipment proposed. This agreement will allow our country to sell to Saudi Arabia two corvettes manufactured by Naval Group and whose engines are German. While France has been strangled by several media for its policy of selling arms to countries violating the most fundamental human rights – in particular Saudi Arabia – it is unbearable that the peace agreement we are talking about does not even mention the limitation of arms exports. The Communist deputies would have appreciated that the updating of the Treaty of Versailles...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u107	This is the Elysée Treaty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u108	... go in the sense of more peace and friendship; But we must believe that, fifty-six years after its signature, the times have changed and that the time is now to international competition and friendship between trusts...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u109	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u110	We have just spent this 3rd October a great morning on Franco-German friendship and on the projects that our two countries intend to carry out together. I think, Mr.Peu, that you referred to the Treaty of Elysée rather than to the Treaty of Versailles because nothing in your speech could relate to the latter, signed at the beginning of the 20th century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u111	It was then about Alsace-Lorraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] I thank Members for their commitment to ensuring that the cross-border dimension is better taken into account in relations between France and Germany. Much remains to be done. I note that the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly has planned to focus on artificial intelligence: this is an interesting example of the added value that can result from its work. On the occasion of the next Franco-German Council of Ministers, we want to talk about the future, climate, innovation, industry; We want to celebrate our successes and place ourselves in a forward-looking perspective. While waiting for the ratification vote next Tuesday, I thank you for the quality of your statements this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u113	We have concluded our consideration of the motion for a resolution. I recall that the Conference of Presidents decided that the vote on this proposal would take place on Tuesday, 8 October, after questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u114	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u115	[[The sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 11.55 a.m. with Mr Marc Le Fur in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u116	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u117	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bioethics bill (No. 2187, 2243).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u118	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with Amendments Nos. 1937, 2026 and 2102 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u119	Amendment No 1937 is not defended. I have before me two amendments, Nos 2026 and 2102, which can be discussed jointly. On Amendment No 2026, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 2026.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u120	Although we had a long debate last night on Article 4, I believe that some clarification is still needed. Indeed, Madam Keeper of the Seals, your answer has not completely satisfied me. We discussed the issue of discrimination and whether or not the use of this word was appropriate. Discrimination consists of a difference in treatment that is not based on a different situation. It seems to me that this is what Article 4 provides for. You invoke a new situation for women's couples, but if you look individually at the relationship between the child and each of his or her mothers, there is no difference with the child born through reproductive medical assistance – AMP – in a heterosexual couple. Your argument, therefore, does not seem to me to be relevant from a legal point of view: these situations, in our view, are identical. That is why I wanted to go back to the need to stick to the common law. We have certainly created a new right by adopting Article 1, and we are all proud; But what is better for equality than common law?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u121	I call Mr Matthieu Orphelin to support Amendment No. 2102.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u122	Similarly, the purpose of this amendment is to extend the application of Article 311-20 of the Civil Code to women's couples, which would not imply any theoretical upheaval. It would only be a matter of providing that the same responsibility for the coming into the world of the child is governed by the same method of establishing filiation, which is subject to the same legal regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u123	I call Mrs Coralie Dubost, rapporteur of the special committee on bioethics, to give the committee's opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u124	We discussed yesterday evening the different readings that could be made of Title VII of the Civil Code, we discussed filiation, discussed the issue of equality – between couples of women and heterosexual couples, between carnal procreation and parental project... You would like to make several amendments, including articles 6-1, 57 and 311-20 of the Civil Code. We discussed at length during the hearings the desirability of amending Article 311-20. This option was on the table and my personal inclination suggested that it was possible. With regard to the preliminary title, the draft law provides for the addition of an article 6-2 which establishes the principle that all children enter on an equal basis into filiation. The choice was made to establish equality between the women involved in a parenting project, to provide them with legal certainty from the outset by drawing up a joint document which will attest that they are both mothers at the same time. This is an appropriate response to the painful situation in which one had to adopt the other's child at the risk of being in a situation of dependence on her – we will come back to that when we consider other amendments. We were driven by a real will to put an end to this inequitable situation, and that is why the solution of equality between mothers was favoured. I believe that the Government, in choosing this legal option, wanted these parental projects to be lived in a soothing environment. That is why the committee is against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u125	The Minister of Justice, the guardian of the seals, has the floor to give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u126	"What is better than common law? Ms Battistel asks us. On the contrary, we believe that the mere extension of the common law is not, here, a correct solution. We must first question the very notion of ordinary law because it is not obvious. It seems to me that, basically, in this matter, there is no common law, but, until now, a classic way of establishing filiation, based on carnal procreation and to which, obviously, women's couples cannot join. That's why we're offering you a different device. I would point out that, so far, the law of filiation was essentially based on the idea of sexual otherness. This is how Article 320 of the Civil Code – one of the cornerstones of this code – must be interpreted, which allows the establishment of only one filiation for each branch. The Constitutional Council thus states, in its decision of 17 May 2013 on the draft law opening marriage to same-sex couples, that "Article 320 of the Civil Code, which is contained in Title VII, provides: "Until it has been challenged in court, the legally established filiation prevents the establishment of another filiation which would contradict it"; that, as a result, the provisions of this article preclude the establishment of two maternal or two paternal filiations in respect of the same child; Thus, in particular, within a couple of persons of the same sex, filiation cannot be established by the presumption of article 312 of the Civil Code." That is the current situation. If we want to free ourselves from the legal framework of Article 320, we must invent something else, adopt other provisions by drawing up special rules so that filiation can be established, as we wish, for a couple of women. That is why we are creating another system, a little different. We believe that it is legally impossible to simply transpose the law in force. In particular, if we wanted to transpose section 311-20 of the Civil Code, we would have to rewrite the entire code, but, as we have already said, this is not the option we have chosen. On the other hand, I would like to repeat, we cannot accept that two women should become mothers only by intention. It is not only through a process of willpower that two women can become mothers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u127	That's not what you said several times!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u128	That's getting interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u129	Let me finish! Medically assisted reproduction is the legal condition for two women to become mothers. It is necessary to establish filiation within a couple of women; It is this reconstruction that we are proceeding. In order to prove filiation, the registrar shall have the birth certificate and the recognition drawn up before the notary. We believe that the establishment of such recognition is far less stigmatizing than the inclusion of consent to the LDC in the birth certificate. Since women's couples are not exactly in exactly the same situation as heterosexual couples – and I stress these words – in terms of reproduction, we have built a system of establishing filiation that, while strongly converging, is not exactly the same. I remind you of the three principles on which it is based. There is first of all simplicity. When two women go to the notary to affirm consent to the MPA, they will establish joint recognition at the same time. Then there is security, which is an essential principle for us. The aim is to secure the situation of both women against the unborn child without the need to mention the LDC on the birth certificate. As soon as the child is born, through the double production of the birth certificate and recognition, both women are mothers at the same time and on an equal basis. That is what is important. Through the simple play of the calendar, this ab initio recognition will prevent any other recognition of filiation that would occur during pregnancy, except, of course, if it is shown before the judge that the child was not born of an AMP. There's finally the truth. We say this: we are facing a parenting project that is a new situation, and we have to adapt to it by amending the civil code. The truth makes it impossible to transpose the existing law outright. I deeply believe that, with regard to the matter we are talking about, mimicry is not equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u130	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u131	If we look at Amendment No 2026 from our colleagues in the Socialist Group, we can see that it is intended to remove the reference to "father" in Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Civil Code. It's serious! The reality, in the present case, is that the child is born from Mrs. X in marriage with Mrs. Y – the latter having previously recognized the child – and from an unknown father. To suppress paternal ancestry is to undermine filiation. By doing so, you establish, in a way, a father's absence. You deliberately create an injustice for the children involved. The equality displayed between the modes of filiation, particularly at the beginning of article 4, cannot mask real discrimination since some children will have the opportunity to have a father, while others will not. And then, if there are equal modes of filiation, in other words ways of getting a child, how can we refuse, tomorrow, the filiation resulting from pregnancy for others? By using the argument of equality, as you have been doing all the time since yesterday, the minister, you will encounter a contradiction that will not be able to resist certain future demands. Indeed, since childbirth is no longer necessarily what makes the mother – this is the result of the proposed text for Title VII of the Civil Code – denying the motherhood of the pregnant woman will ultimately not pose any difficulties. Do we not have to deal, with these provisions, with a Trojan of the gestation for others?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u132	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u134	Mr Bazin, change some arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u135	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u136	I will be brief, because we are about to exhaust this debate. I would like to recall how well we are aware, minister, that what is proposed in this bill is a real step forward, a considerable step forward that we appreciate to its full extent. We are also there because of the very long struggles to get out of a legal situation with infinite suffering, especially for women's couples and, consequently, for the children they may have had in sometimes difficult conditions. The subject is therefore extremely sensitive, and these women have the hope of being able to move towards the most perfect equality possible. Minister, I have listened to your rather complex reasoning, and I cannot help but think that what women – and men – have been involved in this fight for many years, is that we are establishing a system of filiation that is different from the one that applies to heterosexual couples. Finally, this is the truth; That's what's left! It is regrettable that we have not gone to the end, applying what may not be a "common law", but nevertheless constitutes a body of measures that we could rely on to eliminate any difference in treatment between a couple of women and a heterosexual couple using an LDC. That's unfortunate. I don't know if we need to talk about "discrimination," because, of course, the difference that we are going to maintain if we pass the bill as proposed, will not be on the front line of the women concerned, but know that the only thing we will remember from this debate will, unfortunately, be our inability to achieve the most perfect equality possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u137	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u138	Minister, I listened carefully, and your argument seemed very revealing to me. You have focused all of your comments on securing the status of parents and, consequently, on adults. I am more and more troubled by this attitude. You spend crazy time on adult rights, but what do you do about children's rights? [[Applause on many benches in the LR group]] As you develop your arguments, it is clear that the best interests of the child are lost. In fact, you focus on the world of adults, on their will and desires, to the point of chosifying the child. This is all the more dramatic as you introduce these principles into our legal system. Above all, you should focus on the best interests of the child. But, obviously, that is not the Government's concern. On this side of the House, we want to insurrection against such a course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u139	Mrs Annie Genevard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u140	I share the view expressed by the members of my political group. You are arch-bouted on the question of the equality of couples between them, without taking into account the singularity or specificity of opening the MPA to women's couples. This creates a new situation, and even represents a revolution, as Mrs. You are so obsessed with this issue of equality that it is no longer even a question of the child, whereas the child could objectively find himself a victim of discrimination. Indeed, with the adoption of section 1 of the bill, some children will be able to benefit from double parentage, while others will be deliberately deprived of it. As I said at the beginning of our work, we must put the best interests of the child at the forefront of all our concerns. The twofold issue of equality within and between couples must be addressed in the best interests of the child. Madam Keeper of the Seals, you have provided us with a fairly clear summary of how you view the establishment of this new method of filiation. I have a very specific question about that. You tell us that consent to the AMP before notary is the founding element and that it carries the recognition ab initio. Is that right, Madam Keeper of Seals?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u141	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u142	What then do you mean by "ab initio recognition"? So what is the moment at which recognition takes effect, that "initio" you're talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u143	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u144	I would like to lift the ambiguity, real or false, with which our colleagues committed to the notion of equality are contemplating the establishment of filiation. They rely on article 311-20 of the Civil Code to state that there is already a system of common law that would allow a heterosexual couple and a homosexual couple using the LDC to be placed on an equal footing in matters of filiation. In this article, however, it is stated with regard to the father: "He who, after having consented to medical assistance in procreation, does not recognize the child from it incurs his responsibility to the mother and to the child. In addition, his paternity is judicially declared. » It is therefore good that filiation is established not by the act of consent to the use of the LDC, but by the traditional means of law – The guardian of the seals reminded her herself: the mother is a mother because she gives birth and it is the birth certificate that carries the bond of filiation; for the father, if he is married, the presumption of paternity applies, and if he is not, it is the recognition of the child. The impossibility of genuine equality appears here in the open. To tell our fellow citizens that this law guarantees them equal rights with regard to filiation, regardless of their status and wishes for parenthood, is to lie to them and tell them anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u146	You certainly find a device to establish a bond of filiation, but in no case does it ensure equality. In the field of filiation, there is biological reality on the one hand and biological likelihood on the other. In detailing your conception of how to establish filiation for women's couples, you were obliged to recognize, Madam Keeper of the Seals, that the mother who gives birth has an obvious, natural, biological bond of filiation with the child. This link, indisputably, legally prevails filiation. You also deduct from the act of joint recognition of the couple of women that the second mother has a filiation bond with the child not of the same nature, but of the same scope and force, as that of the mother who gave birth. I don't think I'm distorting your thinking by reporting what you're saying. But then, since you give the same legal force to the will of one and the biological reality of the natural process of putting into the world of the other, what happens if the early recognition of the two mothers is broken between the setting up of the MPA, the pregnancy of the first mother, the birth of the child and the establishment of filiation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u147	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u148	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u149	What brings together a large number of us in this House is the opening of the LDC to all women. It seems to me important to say again: it is the great advance of this bill. As for the best ways to secure filiation, which we are discussing at the moment, they are the subject of different options. There is that of Mr. Saulignac, close to mine, and that of the commission, modified in agreement with the Government. There are differences between them, but none is perfect. Let us not forget the essentials, ladies and gentlemen: the LDC for all is a great step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u150	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u151	You said, Mr Hetzel: "On this side of the House, we are concerned about the best interests of the children. No, honourable Member: on all sides of the House we are concerned about it, and the Government too! The Government is so concerned that we are proposing, together with the rapporteur, in the text before you, the addition of article 6-2 in the Civil Code, in order to make it clear that children are equal regardless of their mode of conception. How can we better tell how much the interests of children are our primary concern? You also referred to the Council of State, Mr. Member. I didn't find the extract you read yesterday, so I'll give you my own reference. In its opinion delivered on 24 July, page 14, the Council of State specifically states that the best interests of the child are based on two elements. On the one hand, the child must "have legal certainty about his or her condition". That is what we guarantee with article 6-1 of the Civil Code and all the others. On the other hand, the child must "grow up in a stable family environment". The Council of State here takes up the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. We are doing nothing but providing this security and ensuring a stable environment for children. It is important to say that the issue of the child is obviously our primary concern. Mrs Genevard, you're asking me what the difference is between consent to the AGP and recognition. Consent to the AGP is consent to a medical technique. It is therefore what allows it. Recognition is a legal act, which takes place at the same time with the notary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u152	So these two acts are concomitant?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u153	They are, indeed. Finally, I will reply to Mr.Brindeau: provisions of the text specify that once the AGP has been achieved, it is not possible to revisit the established joint recognition. This is also an element of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u154	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u155	Thank you, minister, for your clarification. The whole point of this debate is precisely to provide answers to our questions. Some, however, remain unanswered. The affirmation of equality that you include in Article 6-2 of the Civil Code could undoubtedly have a consensus in our assembly, but does it not, in fact, mask the inequality that you create between children who will be entitled to paternal ancestry and those who will be deprived of it, between children who will be entitled to a double parent and those who will have only one parent, in the case of single women in particular? Under the mask of this operation, therefore, we can see a dark reality for children. The question asked by my colleague Annie Genevard on consent and recognition is also very relevant. You did not reply yesterday, Madam Minister, on cases where consent would be vitiated and subsequently challenged in court because of a conflict. Because of will-based filiation – the will is versatile – the child could be seriously weakened, as Patrick Hetzel pointed out. The concept of recognition is therefore a matter of concern. Legally, recognition is a confession of the child's true filiation. It can be cancelled as a lie. This is a real semantic problem. Would it not be better to use another word than "recognition"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u156	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u157	The concept of joint recognition seems to me to have to be deepened. This recognition occurs early, at the time of consent to medical assistance in procreation, and it takes effect with delivery. But what creates filiation for the woman giving birth and for the other woman? That is the question. Is it, for the woman giving birth, giving birth and early recognition, which would then distinguish her from a woman in marriage with a man? Is it, for the other woman, the birth of her companion, which would mean that her filiation is not created by recognition? We need to be clear about what creates filiation, whether in the same way for both women or in a separate way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u158	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u159	I have already spoken on this subject yesterday, since I have tabled an almost identical amendment, but I would like to reiterate my shared pleasure in examining this text, which marks a very important step forward for all French and French people. The rewriting of this part of Article 4, I remind you, derives from hearings and debates in committee, which have shown that it leads to stigmatization of part of the population. As Mr. Orphelin pointed out, there are obviously two ways of seeing things. But I feel like we're still in the middle of the ford. Our intention was to avoid any distinction between French citizens. We have taken a step, but we have not gone far enough to ensure that the stigmatization of some of them is completely eliminated. That is why I support the principle of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u160	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u161	Madam Keeper of the Seals, I have noted that the text provides the following provision: "A woman who, after consenting to medical assistance in procreation, obstructs the handing over of the joint recognition referred to in section 342-10 to the civil registry officer shall be liable. This provision is parallel to that of article 311-20 of the Civil Code relating to man who consents to medical assistance in procreation. However, in article 311-20, which is included in new article 342-10, it is specified, after the passage on the responsibility of the father towards the mother and the child, that his paternity is "judicially declared". You did well, of course, to add that to homosexual couples. It was not possible to indicate that the authorship of the woman would be judicially declared, nor did maternity. One could, however, have imagined such a provision, since today it is said that the woman assumes her responsibility. But what kind of responsibility is this? Is it financial, criminal? In fact, it is not qualified in the text. It is not even known in what form it can be recognized or called. The whole limit of your legal system is there. You argue that the status of both mothers is equal, but she can only be fake. It will never be legally possible. The mother's mother who bore the child is de facto and de jure. The second mother, despite your attempt to establish her on the same footing as natural filiation, remains purely theoretical and will never be translated into practice. Why am I so attached to this question? Because, from the point of view of the interests of the child, which is of paramount importance to us all, I fear the consequences of what you propose in case, unfortunately, things go wrong within the couple. In the current legal order, based on biological reality and likelihood, the judge has precise benchmarks to estimate the child's interest in custody, maintenance and even inheritance law. But these benchmarks do not exist in the new legal construction that you establish, so that, in this case, the interests of the child will be left to the judge's quasi subjective assessment. We hope, of course, that everything will be fine, and that is what will happen in most cases. But it is the responsibility of the legislator to foresee the worst, because it is the role of the law, especially in family law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u162	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u163	It is a provision of common sense that we are discussing: it enables the medically assisted reproductive approach to be completed. Personally, I support her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u164	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u165	The debate is complex; I note that you all take it with interest. [[Murmures]] [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I would like to greet the children who have just arrived in the stands: hello and welcome! We are talking about the establishment of filiation in French law and the new type of filiation that we will introduce for women's couples. It's important: you will be one of the generations that have seen comrades, or even been yourself...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u166	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] Madam rapporteur, the opportunity to welcome the groups present in the gallery is reserved for the sitting chair. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u167	As far as the interests of the child are concerned, I shall say something that is not correct from the point of view of political communication, but which corresponds to my legal conviction. When we dedicated the right of access to origins to the benefit of the child of the gift that became major, it was the interest of the child that served as a compass. On the other hand, I do not believe that it is the interests of the child that should guide the way in which a filiation is established. Indeed, if, by adopting this logic about the establishment of the filiation of a couple of women, we introduce it incidentally for heterosexual couples, I let you imagine the discussions that we would have about heterosexual families, on the question of what is a good family, a good parent and who has the right to establish its filiation or not. This seems dangerous to me: we would return to the debates of the 1970s to 90s, when a father could still challenge his fatherhood by invoking the mother's "debauchery" or "known misconduct". Please don't let us go this way! The establishment of the mode of filiation must not be seen from this point of view alone, but – it is my personal feeling – under that of the cause, therefore of responsibility, of the coming into the world of a child. In most cases, it is, as for millennia, carnal procreation; hence the colouring of Title VII of the Civil Code. In recent decades, science has brought other techniques – including: the LDC for heterosexual couples first, for homosexual couples then.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u168	With third-party donor! Specify it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u169	What is important is not to seek the interests of the child with regard to rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u170	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u171	If you do this, you will create a law police of filiation. It'll be dangerous in the long run.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u172	Police? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u173	On the other hand, it is important to ask what caused the child to come into the world, and who is responsible for it. That is at stake in the debate. The assumption of vices of consent, which had been mentioned by Mr Bazin, was dealt with in the text. It was the case in Article 311-20 of the Civil Code, as set out in Article 4 adopted in committee. The text, simply modernized, is very clear: "Consent is deprived of effect in the event of death as well as the filing of an application for divorce or legal separation, in the event of the signing of a divorce agreement or legal separation by mutual consent in accordance with the terms of Article 229-1 of this Code or of the termination of the community of life, occurring before the insemination or transfer of embryos is carried out. It shall also be deprived of effect when one of the members of the couple revokes his consent in writing and before the insemination or transfer of the embryo is carried out, to the doctor responsible for implementing this assistance or to the notary who received it. Straightsexual or homosexual, if you have not revoked your consent in writing before insemination, you are responsible to the other parent and the child. It is therefore a dual liability regime that is activated here. Mr. Brindeau mentioned it. Indeed, there was already a regime of responsibility towards men, under which the fatherly filiation of the failing man – the one who would not recognize the child – could be established by the mother on the basis of her consent to the gift. Here, a new regime of responsibility is established ab initio between the two mothers:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u174	He's a blond man!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u175	... if the second mother does not recognize the child, she may be the subject of a liability search. In connection with one of my amendments, we shall discuss the possibility of the existence of a third party. In any case, the liability regime came into play very early, and that was what guaranteed mothers legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u176	But what kind of responsibility is this?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u177	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u178	We await the answers of Ms. Keeper of the Seals regarding the time of the establishment of filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u179	We answered you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u180	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u181	[[Smile]] I thought I would respond when I considered a later amendment – many on the subject – but I can do so now, and with great pleasure, if that conditions your vote, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u182	Hope makes you live!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u183	That is the democratic debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u184	Let's be very clear. In our system, I said, the birth of one of the two women is the condition for the establishment of filiation; as to joint recognition, this is the condition of the dual bond of maternal filiation. What we are looking for is the establishment of this dual bond of filiation. Joint recognition implies that there will be no multi-parentality – since this is, I know, one of your concerns, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, if a third person intervenes, joint recognition will block the establishment of filiation in respect of him, unless there is a dispute before the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u185	For now!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u186	For now, yes, but I think, despite the progress of medicine, that we will no longer be there in the 21st century...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u187	Litigation is already taking place elsewhere! See Canada or the United States!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u188	Very concretely: a woman has just given birth, we go in front of the registrar; How does the child establish the birth certificate of the child? First, by observing that a woman gave birth, thanks to the birth certificate; He'll need this document, as for all couples. The woman giving birth will thus be included in the birth certificate solely because of her birth. Secondly, to mention in the birth certificate the second mother, who did not give birth, it is obviously necessary to ensure that she is closely linked to the first by the mutual consent established by the joint recognition. The registrar will therefore have two papers before him: the birth certificate and the joint recognition; This is what will allow him, at the same time, to establish the dual bond of maternal filiation. If he does not have joint recognition, he will only have the birth certificate: only the woman who gave birth will then be a mother. It is therefore important for him to have both documents: this is what makes it possible to establish the legality of the birth certificate of the child. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are the details I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u189	That's very clear! Well done, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u190	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2026.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u191	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 61 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 17 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u192	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 2144, 1590, 2340, 2403, 2406, 2349 and 1057, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 2144.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u193	With your permission, Mr President, I shall present at the same time Amendment No 1590 by Mr Touraine. I wonder, however, about the place of these two amendments in the course of the discussion: they have absolutely nothing to do with the subject before us, since they tend to allow same-sex couples to apply the provisions on state ownership. It would allow for the establishment of dual filiation in cases that the early joint recognition scheme maintains on the margins of the law. I am thinking of the children who were born in an AMP procedure abroad before the law, those who were born in an AMP procedure abroad and who were born a few months after the law was promulgated, or those who were born in an AMP procedure in France in a couple of women who did not have recourse to a third party donor. Let us not forget all these children and their parents of intention, under the penalty of depriving them of the fullness of their rights. I recall that state ownership is a method of establishing filiation that is explicitly based on parental commitment; It is the experience that then reveals the bond of filiation, according to section 311-1 of the Civil Code. It is therefore accepted that state ownership does not correspond to biological truth. In this sense, it can fully apply to the partner of the legal mother. Indeed, the required qualities of state possession – to be continuous, peaceful, public and unequivocal – are met as long as the companion has raised the child with the legal mother for a sufficient period of time in the sight and knowledge of the family and friendly entourage. No matter how the child's design is established; It doesn't even matter if it was born because of the use of an AMP then banned in France. I have heard in committee the arguments put forward by Mrs Custody of Seals concerning the potentially equivocal nature of filiation with respect to the second mother. In fact, there are no legal obstacles here. Applying state ownership to the second mother would not, in fact, encounter any contradiction since, in a couple of women, there are by definition two maternal branches. State possession would concern the establishment of filiation in respect of the second maternal branch, necessarily free: there is no paternal filiation in the event of the use of a sperm donation by a couple of women. This second filiation would therefore not be in competition with the first maternal line, that of the woman who gave birth. Therefore, there is no opposition between two antagonistic filiations, and no contradiction from the chronological principle can make possession of a state equivocal with respect to the second mother.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u194	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2340.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u195	I will defend it at the same time as my group's other amendments, Nos 2403, 2406 and 2349. As you know, at the outset we defended the idea that the bill actually established a new lineage. That's how we see things. That is why we have fought against the idea that there can be a biological truth as we have fought that of a right to origin, recognizing no particularity to the gift of gametes in relation to other gifts, including organs. I recall all this only for the sake of consistency of our remarks. Here, it is a matter for us to erase any distinction between the parenting of homosexual couples and that of other forms of marriage. We thus go to the end of the logic of accepting the idea that a new filiation is created, based on the principle that no filiation will ever, in history, be anything other than the result of a cultural practice, a vision of society and a particular relationship between parent and child, without regard to the sexual orientation of the parents. I want to stress one point: it seems to us a very bad idea to include, on the identity documents of children, the special character of their birth – precisely because this particularity is in fact artificially created. It is a source of discrimination and a way to deny these children of today, the adults of tomorrow, the privacy and the right to speak or not to speak about a subject ultimately not so important as that. There should be no record of it in any document. They are children of a particular parenthood, but it is undeniably parenthood, filiation is established, final point. From then on, their lives and rights become the same as those of everyone, and the same respect is due to everyone, regardless of the origin or nature of the parents. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] Everyone will measure the consistency between what I am saying now and the other points of view that I have already defended here. Therefore, our group will vote for our colleague's amendment, with the hope that others will vote for us if it is not adopted. You have understood – I am especially speaking to the majority colleagues because they will take the decision – that our amendments can be described as "no trace" amendments, because everyone is equal in the fact that everyone has to have parents, knowing that if they are of the same sex, this detail does not matter in relation to his or her own personal existence and social existence. It is the amendments "all the same", "all equal", with the same respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u197	Mrs Anne-France Brunet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1057.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u198	I, too, am extremely in favour of extending the application of state ownership to homosexual couples because it is equality between all couples. Adoption should not be the only way for homosexual couples to establish a filiation, knowing that it is not exclusively biological but also social. In addition, the use of state ownership is much simpler and much cheaper, and thus facilitates the establishment of filiation for same-sex couples. I repeat, equality between all families must be established in principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u199	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u200	These amendments under joint discussion make various proposals, but all have the same objective: to allow recognition of the child by all couples, whether heterosexual or homosexual, regardless of whether the child was born with or without LDCs, including by possession of a state or by the recognition of the child by the other parent. I am sorry, but I will have to repeat this often: I would make other opinions if we were in the context of a major reform of the law of filiation, but we are within the scope of a bioethics law on the LDC. That is why we have not had discussions or even conducted hearings on a reform of the law of filiation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u201	That's what we've been saying all along! It was necessary to propose a specific bill, not to deal with the subject in the context of a bioethics law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u202	DIY!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u203	... since it was a matter of drawing the consequences of the expansion of the LDC to include women's couples. Therefore, these amendments seem to me to go far beyond the scope of the committee's consideration. That is why she has rejected them, and I reiterate her unfavorable position here. I would like to point out in passing that, in the case of children from LDCs before this text who will not benefit from regularization of their situation in the light of the methods of establishing filiation that we adopt, I have tabled an amendment, which we will consider at a later stage, aimed at creating a transitional arrangement, certainly imperfect on various points, but which will allow the recognition of children from LDCs stricto sensu – and not those from any type of procreation by any type of couple, which in my view is really not the subject of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u205	This will also be an unfavourable view of all of these amendments. I fully understand Mr. Gérard's concern, shared by other Members, to take into account the situation of children born by LDCs either before the passage, I hope, of this bill, or abroad. It is true that this is a sensitive issue that must not be ignored. That being said, I do not think that state ownership is the right answer, for several reasons. First of all – but I recognise that the argument is insufficient – this legal mechanism is used only very exceptionally: there are only a dozen cases per year, always linked to very special situations such as the search for heirs. Secondly, as I told you in committee, Mr Gérard, Article 311-2 states that "state possession must be continuous, peaceful, public and unequivocal", and it is true that the "unambiguous" character could be subject to interpretation in relation to a couple of women. Finally, the procedure for establishing state ownership, i.e. on the basis of evidence of filiation – in relation to two mothers, in this case – could easily make us slide towards the recognition of GPA, the gestation for others. But you know that there is a red line that the Government does not want to cross. It seems to me that the mechanism we are proposing is both simple, secure and better suited to the situation we have to deal with. We will have to think, you are right, about cases that are not covered by the bill. In this regard, I had the opportunity to say it in committee and say it again here: I hope that the work currently being done by your colleague Monique Limon and Senator Corinne Imbert on the terms of adoption will lead to concrete and quickly applicable solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on these amendments will probably not be closed before the adjournment of the sitting. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u207	Minister, I agree with you:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u208	Here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u209	... these amendments on state ownership would allow an even easier shift towards gestation for others. You said it took the conjunction of the AMP and the delivery to establish the filiation of two women as a couple who had consented to it, but if during the fertile period when artificial insemination took place, the woman had a carnal relationship with a man, what would happen? Will there be any tests? I'm worried about this situation and I'd like you to reassure me about it. As long as the establishment of filiation is based on the will – for the second mother – and besides the fact that the will can be versatile, fluctuating, changing, the child will end up with one parent if it is recognized that the consent of the woman is vitiated by the fact that she was then immature, forced or unconscious. This is very different from the current situation where even if the alleged paternity is challenged, the child still finds himself with another father. While in the event that I consider, there will be none at all and the child will find himself with only one parent and be weakened from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u210	But this can happen outside the AMP!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u211	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u212	I, too, agree with what you say for once, Madam Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u213	[[Smile]] I'm worried!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u214	It must be made clear that state ownership is a combination of several facts that can prove the actual existence of a relationship of filiation and kinship between a child and the family to which he or she claims to belong, which, you recalled, implies that it is "peaceful, continuous, public and unambiguous" according to the civil code. However, possession of a state against two women would clearly be equivocal. You yourself say – report of the debates in committee, page 431 of Volume 2 of the report – "In a couple of two women, this unequivocal character does not come out of the eye and is not convincing. So things are clear: wanting to use this vector translates the hidden purpose of going to GPA!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u215	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u216	At least these amendments have the merit of consistency, Madam Keeper of the Seals. Indeed, from the moment that any bodily dimension is removed in filiation on the basis only of the parenting project, the extension of state possession can be agreed. And that is why you are somewhat bothered by this debate, sheltering you behind article 311-2 of the Civil Code. But in order to respond in substance to the arguments of the authors of these amendments, it would be necessary to explain where the equivocation would be. We believe that state ownership is in our right a possible mode of filiation because it always relies on biological likelihood, on the possibility that the parents may have caused the child concerned, but you cannot stay on this point halfway. I ask you the question: how would state ownership be equivocal for a couple of women?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u217	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u218	I can hear all the arguments made by Mrs Custody of Seals, but I am starting from the reality of our society today: there are in our country many children from LDCs abroad, for whom there are problems in establishing their second filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u219	But as for those from the GPA!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u220	I can also hear the rapporteur when she says that our amendments go a little beyond the strict framework of the bioethics bill. But we can't leave these children in this insecurity. I recall that today, adoption assumes that a couple are married. In this regard, I am very eager to discover the conclusions of the report by our colleague Monique Limon and Senator Corinne Imbert, knowing that, in the absence of recognition of state ownership for homosexual couples, the only way to recognize double maternal filiation will remain adoption, which implies that the couple is married. However, not all couples of women are in marital status, they can be pacised or in a common-law relationship. I believe that we are therefore faced with a real problem and that we cannot evacuate the subject. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] On the other hand, I find it very difficult to understand the argument of the risk of sliding to GPA. I also find it very difficult, with regard to the unequivocal nature of state ownership, to admit that some systematically invoke carnal procreation to interpret this criterion, as if it necessarily referred to the mere credibility of the biological filiation bond. It bothers me a lot, especially since the bill does not seem to me to refer to the unequivocal nature of biological filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u221	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u222	Once again, it is a real subject and we will have to deal with it: tens of thousands of children in legal insecurity, including those born before the 2013 law, whose parents are separated and for whom adoption cannot be an answer, while all the bodies concerned recall that the establishment of two ties of filiation instead of one is more secure for the child. I shall therefore not withdraw Amendments Nos 2144 and 1590.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u223	It's the open door to litigation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u224	You can count on me, the minister, the rapporteur, to come back to this subject in circumstances other than the review of the bioethics bill. I will not let him go because, I say again, it is about the legal certainty of children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u225	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-03-O1006.u226	Next meeting, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
