ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill adopted by the Senate to allow the councillors of the Lyon metropolis to take part in the next senatorial elections (No. 2023, 2126).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u2	As this text has not been amended, I shall put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u3	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Unanimous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u4	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the transformation of the civil service (No 2115).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u5	Mrs Emilie Chalas, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u6	The Public Service Transformation Bill was passed at first reading by the National Assembly on 28 May and by the Senate just three weeks ago. We have therefore been working at a steady pace over the past three months with a view to improving, consolidating and supplementing the original provisions of this text, in particular through the adoption of several hundred amendments during its consideration in committee and in open session. After nearly 50 hours of debate in the National Assembly and after 40 hearings and many visits as rapporteurs on our territories, these changes or additions were, for some of them, the result of a trans-partisan approach. This result is the result of constructive work involving, among other things, the delegation to local and regional authorities led by our colleague Éric Poulliat and the delegation for women's rights, of which our colleague Laurence Gayte has been appointed draftsman. I would, of course, like to thank the La République on the move, and in particular Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, for his support and constant involvement throughout the discussion of this text. This constructive work continued during my discussions as rapporteur with my Senate counterparts, Catherine Di Folco and Mr.Loïc Hervé, in order to arrive at a common text. We have reached a common text of all the provisions that are still under discussion and which the Joint Joint Committee decided to adopt on 4 July. This consensus text retains the bulk of the many contributions of the National Assembly and the Senate. Of course, several concessions and compromises were needed in order to overcome the few remaining differences of opinion with our honourable senators. I think I can say that we have achieved this, in a spirit of listening and dialogue that I wish to welcome here. I sincerely believe that this reform, expected by our compatriots and the 5.5 million public officials who work every day for the benefit of the general interest, will contribute to improving and fluidising the social dialogue in our public service, thanks in particular to the establishment of future social committees which will constitute the transversal forum for dialogue of proximity. The creation, on my initiative, of the annual single social report also represents a new tool for managing human resources, in the interests of efficiency and transparency. While the reform of the Joint Administrative Commissions and the establishment of the management guidelines have, at the very least, generated debate, I welcome the compromise position adopted during the discussions with the Senate in order to maintain, while improving, the initial drafting of clauses 4 and 14 of the bill. Title II of this bill, on managerial levers, has been considerably strengthened by the parliamentary review, in order to give a truly operational scope to the new recruitment faculties offered to administrations. These developments will, of course, be consistent with the principle of equal access to public employment guaranteed by the 1789 Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights. Whether it is the creation of project contracts or the extension of contractual recruitment opportunities in the public service of the State and the territorial civil service, a balance has been found in order to reconcile flexibility and security. The strengthening of training obligations for the benefit of all public officials directly contributes to this logic. I welcome the consensus on the introduction, in Article 10b, of a precarious premium for contracts of up to one year's duration: this is a real step forward, long-awaited in the public sector and adopted unanimously by our House. I would like to thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, for your commitment to the Law Commission. It is an indispensable measure of social justice. Of course, it represents a clear budgetary effort, but I am convinced that it will help to reduce unjustified differences in treatment with the private sector, even though the professional situations faced by public or private workers are identical in this respect. On ethical issues, we can welcome the progress contained in this bill: strengthening the prerogatives of HATVP, the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, now the only competent authority to examine these issues, enriching its college and increasing control over retro-pantouflage, so well-appointed. Again, the balance we have found makes sense to me. Similarly, with regard to the Government's ability to legislate by ordinance to reform public service schools, we have resulted in a drafting that, while being more precise than the original text, leaves sufficient scope for Frédéric Thirez's mission to explore the various possible scenarios. With regard to the provisions on occupational equality, the text adopted by the CMP contains a great deal of progress in the fight against discrimination, equality between women and men – I am thinking in particular of the exemption from the waiting day for pregnant women – and the inclusion of persons with disabilities. The CMP further discussed the situation of sports technical advisers – CTS – and the mechanism to avoid beaded strikes in the territorial civil service, defended by senators. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the text adopted by the CMP is the result of work that respects the original philosophy of the bill, while improving many of the provisions discussed at length both in committee and in public. At the end of the parliamentary review, this reform of the public service thus achieves a threefold objective: to liberate, protect and unite, in the service of the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u7	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u8	I am very pleased to be able to appear before you again today, following the agreement reached on the bill to transform the public service by the members of the two assemblies meeting in a joint committee on 4 July. I would like to thank all the parliamentarians who have helped to make this compromise possible: the Chair of the Law Committee, for her presence and for having served as Vice-Chair of the Concluded CMP, and the Rapporteur, Émilie Chalas, who managed to maintain the balance of the bill between, on the one hand, the flexibilities granted to employers, elected and public executives, and, on the other hand, the strengthening of the rights of all public officials. I would also like to express my gratitude to Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, responsible for the text for the working Republic Group, as well as to Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky, responsible for the MODEM Group, and to Mr Éric Pouillat and Mrs Laurence Gayte, respectively draftsmen for the opinion of the delegation to local authorities and the delegation to women's rights. I would also like to thank all members of your assembly who took part in the debates on this important text for the future of the public service and contributed, in many respects, to its enrichment and improvement. The quality and serenity of the debates that brought us together here – this was also the case in the Senate – explains a great deal about the outcome and quality of the text that is being put to your vote today. The ongoing dialogue and attentive listening have been a hallmark of this text, from the drafting of the bill – in fifteen months of consultation with representative trade union organisations and representatives of public employers on all three sides of the public service – to its consideration in Parliament over the last three months, which allowed us to agree on this ambitious and necessary text for public services. The balance reached in the Joint Joint Committee follows the guidelines set by the President of the Republic and the Government, while opening new fields of transformation of human resources policies within the civil service and of improving the conditions for the exercise of public services as close as possible to the territories. With this bill, our goal is to strengthen the effectiveness of public action, to reconcile the expectations of users and public officials, and to renew the republican promise of a public service for all and everywhere. I am pleased that this triple ambition has been shared throughout the parliamentary review and that the text resulting from the numerous amendments adopted in the National Assembly, both in the Law Committee and in the public sitting – not far from 300 – gives all public officials and their employers the means to adapt to the contemporary demands they face and to which they must respond every day. On many points, the contribution of the National Assembly has been substantial. Many provisions adopted here will contribute to the success of the project that we are carrying with Gérald Darmanin, but also with Jacqueline Gourault, Sébastien Lecornu and Agnès Buzyn for the three sides of the public service. I am thinking in particular of the conditions for the exercise of social dialogue, which will be more qualitative, and of improving the conditions for the exercise of trade union mandates; Simplification of recruitment and mobility, including in the context of round-trips with the private sector; the best use of professional commitment in pay and career paths; strengthening the exemplary nature of public officials, in particular the senior civil service, in terms of the ethics and transparency of the highest remuneration; to improve the accompaniment of public transformations or to the new levers designed to combat precariousness, with the creation of the premium of precariousness, which you have recalled, the rapporteur, and which will make it possible to make progress in the field of rights for public officials. I am thinking of the harmonised working time rules within the public service, the development of learning in its three sides and the strengthening of the coordination and mutualisation of the actions of the management centres and their link with the National Centre for the Territorial Civil Service – CNFPT – in order to improve the quality of the service provided to territorial agents and employers. I could also mention the strengthening of the commitments made for greater professional equality between women and men or for the professional inclusion of workers with disabilities. At the end of the CMP, during which you reached an agreement, we have a balanced text, in line with the commitments of the President of the Republic and the ambition of the Government and the Prime Minister to modernize the civil service by simplifying human resources management and improving the working lives of the 5.5 million public officials. As soon as it is adopted and promulgated, many provisions will enter into force, such as the elimination of the day of waiting for illness for pregnant women, the removal of obstacles to the development of apprenticeships in the civil service, the generalization of training courses for those who have for the first time taken up managerial posts, the gradual return to 1607 hours in the State and territorial civil service, the application of an age limit to the appointment of the presidents of the independent administrative authorities, the definition of a minimum service for certain territorial public services in the event of a strike or the renovated scheme to take care of civil servants who are temporarily deprived of employment. The other provisions, for the most part, will apply from 1 January 2020 or during 2020, in particular the reform of the competences of the Joint Administrative Boards – CAP – in the field of mobility, the development of human resources management guidelines and the evolution of disciplinary procedures, as well as the expanded use of the contract, the strengthening of ethical control and the support of public transformations. I could also mention, for the year 2020, the conventional break or the strengthening of professional equality. In order to meet these calendar objectives, the Directorate-General for Administration and the Public Service is already working with the other two directorates-general responsible for the territorial and hospital slopes, and the social consultation will resume with public employers and trade union representatives on the nature and content of the implementing legislation as soon as the beginning of the year. More than 50 texts must be published in the coming months, not to mention the draft ordinances, which will be the subject of specific consultations, which will also be informed by the conclusions of certain missions that have been launched, notably the one led by the Member of Parliament Charlotte Lecocq on occupational health or that of Frédéric Thiriez on the senior public service. I have made a commitment, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, to come as often as you wish to report to this Committee on the progress of work on the production of regulatory texts, and I would like to be able to involve as many parliamentarians as possible in their preparation. I stand at the disposal of your committee to honour this commitment and to carry out this joint work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude by thanking all the stakeholders in our debate and by welcoming the fact that the text proposed to you today respects the objectives we set collectively in terms of ambition, balance and flexibility, as well as new rights for public officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u9	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u10	I have long wondered what I can tell you, during these fifteen minutes, that I have not already told you at first reading. In the end, this Joint Joint Committee took place so quickly that it left the impression that some of the stakes had been dispossessed, as if it were an ordinary piece of legislation that would not change the daily lives of the administrations and the 5.6 million public officials who make up them. I asked myself: am I going to speak to the majority to tell them that what they are doing is not acceptable in a republic that wants to be democratic, social, at the service of citizens? But I realized that I had already said it at first reading. I have already told you all this, without convincing you – on the contrary, even, since you were very enthusiastic about increasing the share of contract workers that already amounts to 18% in the different administrations – territorial civil service, hospital or state. In order for my word to be useful, I would like above all to address my fellow citizens, reminding them why, basically, people, at some point in time, had the sad idea of considering that public officials should not be bound to the State by a contract, in accordance with the application of conventional private law, but that, for them, a statute had to be drawn up. It also gives the public service exorbitant prerogatives – this is what is written in the books. Since there is a need for some stability in the state, in government and in public services, some have thought that it is necessary to be able to guarantee public officials a job for life in a way – even if, as everyone knows, one can be "de-executed" and receive sanctions, so it is not entirely a job for life. The idea is that once the public service is integrated, the first step is not to serve a public employer: the first step is to fulfil a public service mission. It is therefore above all the general interest that we serve. I know that this can be an issue for some public employers who say at times: "Untel does not want to obey me, slipping in accordance with the law, invoking the equality of users, access to public service, neutrality! Well, yes, that's exactly what makes the public service and its public servants strong. We can claim everything that makes up the public service and the public service. I myself, who have competed in the public service, read the little fact sheet indicating why I was received in the oral room. Among my positive points was: "defence of the public service" – for the anecdote, "public service" was written with a fault. This idea of the public interest was valued, so it was considered important to believe in it. In essence, "the general interest", these are just words, until the day they are embodied in administrations, in public services – and not services to the public! There is a great difference between these two notions, and that is what separates us. You are pursuing a political project that takes its most recent sources from the American theory of "new public management", developed in the 1970s and relayed today by the European Commission and the European Treaties, and built around this concept of service "to the public" and the idea that there is no difference of nature between the functioning of the public service and that of the private sector. I remind my fellow citizens that this idea of status serves their interests, as users – and not consumers. The deterioration of public services, which they observe every day and which has been a vehicle for mobilisation, particularly during the movement of yellow vests, is explained by a concrete reality: if officials do not have a status, the expected level of public service cannot be achieved. I read in the press that Mr. Secretary of State, and the Government with him, no longer wanted to abolish 50,000 positions in the civil service, but 15,000. In fact, you have no choice, you cannot remove more than 15,000, as you will see by drawing up a list of all the departments – what I had done for you, Secretary of State – and by asking where you will remove positions of public servants, where there are too many. Tell us in which department agents will have fewer colleagues because "we're cool," "we're wide," "we're okay"? There aren't any. There's no more. Perhaps there have been in the past – I have not had the chance to know this situation. During my short administrative career, I have only known cases of understaffing, and I have only heard about that, for example, because such agents are not part of the "target workforce." Even if the number of posts is finally only 15,000, it is a problem, because I remind you – and it is not so often said – that the population of this country is increasing. French and French are more numerous, and that's so much better. Consequently, even if no posts were abolished, the public service would be degraded, as the number of civil servants per capita decreased. That is the reality. Each abolition of the civil servant position results in a decline in the quality of public service rendered. I would also like to address the nine trade union organisations which have all opposed this text by voting against it at the joint council. Moreover, this case has taken place in other areas: for example, in the Higher Council for Education, all trade union organisations had voted against the reform of the baccalaureate. But when the intermediate bodies pronounce themselves, their opinion is mocked, despite the words of the President of the Republic, who, at his press conference following the movement of yellow vests, claimed that he wanted to give them life, breath and importance. Balivernes! We don't care about the world. Yes, the battle could not be fought as desired. Yes, the number of public servants, citizens and citizens mobilized on the street against this bill has not been sufficient. But it's not over. It's never over. Of course, in this text, the status of civil servants is placed in a corner, as a vestige would be kept above the chimney, while the recruitment of contractors is valued on the pretext that it would be more effective in the case of positions with profiles. By the way, I imagine that the photos on the CVs will be profiled rather than face-to-face, which would correspond to the logic currently desired by the Republic on the move and the "start-up nation". As long as there are people like me, and others, in this House – because there are still people – and outside this House, who believe in the notions of public service and public service, the battle will not be over. We will have other opportunities to mobilize. There are already sectoral mobilisations directly related to what we are talking about. In hospitals, in emergency services, the hospital public service is the victim of the high number of contract workers, which creates instability and precariousness in work. This question is not unrelated to their mobilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u11	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u12	[["We too! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] It will therefore be necessary to continue to mobilize. Finally, I would still like to say that I am a little tired of the succession of hollow words that follow as if they were obvious, for example: "We need to improve and fluidize social dialogue. Great! "Strengthening social dialogue": I've heard this for years without knowing what it means. Does this correspond to "put oil in the wheels", another set of keywords of the same acabit? But what do you mean by "fluidifying social dialogue"? Reduce the number of union delegates? Yeah, that's what you're gonna do. Give public officials less voice? Yeah, that's what you're gonna do. But it doesn't fluidize anything, it stiffens everything! All the public employers, all my fellow heads of department who are in touch with the Directorates of Human Resources have told me that, despite all your deletions, "Joint Administrative Pre-Committees" should be held to deal with the issues currently being discussed in the Joint Administrative Committees. Otherwise, tensions would be generated within the various departments and administrations, until the explosion. Public officials will be right to continue to use the best tools, in this case these very good tools developed before. We are promised "new piloting tools". But what can it be? We are told that flexibility and security will be needed. We don't know how. Oh, yes! Thanks to the conventional breakup and the secondment of office – this is flexibility, indeed, no problem! As for security, one wonders where it is, since disputes will certainly increase. Then it's the pompon: all this would allow us to "liberate, protect and unite", as if until then we wanted to harness, not protect and disunite! It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u13	In any case, you don't want to change anything, that's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u14	Of course you say you are doing this to increase efficiency. We do not know how effective it is, but this is, it seems, the political objective that is being pursued. In reality, all these keywords, hollow words, words-valises were launched on the ideological track in the 1970s with the theory of "new public management". What was that thing I was talking about earlier? In good French, it is "new public management". It is an American doctrine aimed at denying, or minimizing, the differences of nature between the public and the private sector, and at considering that there is no reason for public services, which must provide services to consumer users, to be treated in a particular way. All forms of management, management control and cost reduction must be applied in the public service as well as in the private sector. The key word for "new public management" is the necessary "pragmatism". It's all said! This means that the funding tap closes, that the officer has to pull the language and perform the same number of missions with fewer colleagues. The objective is to improve cost-effectiveness. This doctrine also advocates – which should please you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority – to give citizens freedom of choice, and therefore to avoid standardised benefits. I translate: we need solutions that are closest to the ground, corresponding to local realities. It also states that a strategic state, guaranteeing the quality of what is done, is preferable to an actor state, which does things itself. It does not matter whether it is a public service with civil servants, contractors, a public service delegation or even the case of a temporary authorization for the construction of a building with a lessor or a private provider. The state must no longer put its hands in the cambodia, because it would not be its role, which would be to supervise – we return to this idea of "new pilotage". This is reflected in the creation of all-embracing agencies. Moreover, at European level, we are talking about "agençologie" to designate this phenomenon, of which France is not exempt: a Sports Agency was created, as was a National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories or a French Biodiversity Office. We've also known the National Research Agency, and I'm passing – a day wouldn't be too much to quote them all and know how they organize themselves. This gradual dismantling of the State is indeed a doctrine that has been followed for a long time. To complete the whole thing, performance indicators – it's essential! – and merit pay is of course necessary. This is what the "New Public Management" provides for. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I have summarized your policy, which is rather old-fashioned since this theory is beginning to date seriously. It also shows its limits and its counterproductive character. Demonstration of this was made at the Court of Grand Instance in Lille, during the last Council of Jurisdiction. During this session, the public prosecutor told us that according to the target number, the court should have 290 clerks. However, they are only 210, he noted, stating that there were two or three less prosecutors in the court compared to the target number. Yet, within our group of courts – we compare ourselves to the same size of courts – our response rate is the best and fastest. In other words, this prosecutor tells us: "Although we are in a state of suffering, ladies and gentlemen, although we do not have time to process our files, to do our work as we would like, we are, in terms of indicators, performing, and even those who are most. This shows that a well-known service can be, in fact, in difficulty or diminished. I will conclude, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u15	By hollow words!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u16	... by saying that we will be at the end with the citizens, with the officials and the trade union organisations, whenever they call us to fight. I hope, in any case, that this motion of rejection will receive as many votes as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u17	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote on this motion, the floor is Ms Laurence Vichnievsky.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u18	I cannot get used to certain uses of parliamentary procedure. I have not heard any argument in our colleague's mouth that would support a motion to reject it beforehand. For my part, I have always held that compliance with the procedure does not drown the substance but preserves it. I have heard a political forum, which I respect; But it was my dear colleague who explained why you would vote against the text, which I also understand. Be careful, however, to table unwarranted motions of rejection in the light of the current texts that govern our debates. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] Of course, the MODEM and related groups will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u19	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u20	Since the beginning of our debates, we believe that this bill is tainted by a form of anachronism, and that it poses serious risks to republican compromises patiently built in social dialogue, sometimes even in social struggles. These compromises, which survived the political alternations, have become a republican heritage. And in this heritage, there is the status of the public service, the fruit of a long history in which political power has, as the case may be, defied its administration or rested on it. He challenged herself when she was the refuge of reaction or collaboration; He relied on it when it came to building the Republic: I am thinking of what was then the party of the school, with its black hussars, or the status of 1946, which instilled the spirit of resistance in a state to rebuild. The present reform is without memory or historical depth; It exposes itself to considerable risks and, above all, looks at the future with old glasses. We are facing considerable challenges, such as the ecological transition or the need to take into account the long time, which, of course, is not well suited to an increased use of contractors. The question of secularization also arises in new terms: not to escape the influence of the church, but to reconsider our relations with private power and its intrusions. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] However, the proposed reform, coming out of the old closets of the liberal doxa, is, in many respects, naphthalin. Members of the Socialist and Related Group will support this motion to reject beforehand, as we believe there may be an appointment for a 21st century public service, not the 19th century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u21	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u22	The IDU and independent group will not associate themselves with the procedural punctuality of this motion for prior rejection, simply for a reason of substance. Even though our colleague has raised some concerns or concerns – including the quality of social dialogue – that we can share, a philosophical point, in a way, separates us: the public service, according to our colleague, should remain hermetic to an environment that evolves with society itself, but also with the techniques and means, they would have diminished – as is the case – the public power. Despite all this, he continues, the status should be alpha and omega; We know, and our colleague Bernalicis also knows, who was a civil servant, that contracting, like a number of provisions in the text, offers flexibility for better management of human resources in its current format and for adapting the service rendered to our citizens. This philosophical divergence leads us to reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u23	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u24	The Libertés et Territoires Group will not support the motion for a preliminary rejection, for a simple reason, which has just been put forward by Pascal Brindeau. The goal is not to have less public service, but "better public service." Having had the opportunity and honour to lead a community for eighteen years, I know the frustrations, expectations and dissatisfactions of all those who have chosen the wonderful job of public servant. They too would like to adapt to a changing world. This should not lead us to do anything, of course, or to give a blank answer to this text, which I shall mention, Mr Secretary of State, as to the positive points in my view, and those which would deserve another answer. After listening to the yellow vests, as we have all tried to be, after hearing their repeated expectations and frustrations, we cannot postpone our decisions. We do not have the right to do that: there are times when we have to speed up, by any way, certainly, but accelerate, because it is already a beginning of response.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u25	Excellent, Philippe!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u26	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u27	Ugo Bernalicis put the terms of the debate right. I say this without any controversial intention, Mrs Vichnievsky: we have the right, for example in a motion of rejection, to defend the idea that the text is inappropriate; and that is exactly what Mr Bernalicis has done. So let us not waste time commenting on the use that parliamentarians make of our Rules of Procedure. Since you have spoken of the substance, my dear colleague, this type of comment allows you to avoid telling us why you support the text. Let's get to the bottom of it. The public service, we are told by some colleagues, must not be hermetic to the world around us. But this confirms our own arguments! What exactly is the world around us? That of possible nepotisms, that of increasing pressure from the private sector on those in charge of the civil service, whether state or territorial. The amendment to the statute proposed here will also alter the relationship between the official and his authority: it is the substance of the debate. And this debate is essential, we must not take it lightly: Boris Vallaud recalled, the status of civil servants has a profound history; It refers to the very conception of the State, to the relationship between administration and political power, between those who carry out public service tasks and the population. All this deserves to go further than what you propose with this text, namely a negative adaptation to the world around us, a precariousness that will also become the rule in the public service. Finally, let us say that this is indeed an accounting reform, a computer reform, aimed at reducing the number of civil servants. In doing so, you continue the work of Sarkozy and François Hollande: it is the same policy, politics which, o extreme surprise, leads our fellow citizens to wonder, once their taxes are paid, what has become of public service in their communes. Movements like that of the yellow vests, of which you are surprised, follow. "In my commune," people say, "there's nothing left, the administrations have disappeared and I have to take my car to get access to it. Why? Because we've closed down some kind of public service. It's all connected! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Your accounting vision is really short-sighted. By the way, hiring contractors, initially, will cost more than hiring public servants. It will also degrade the service rendered and call into question the republican conception of the service of the State: all these reasons which, for the group La France insoumée, campaign for the adoption of the motion of rejection beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u28	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u29	I will not surprise you by saying that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on this motion. Throughout the debate on the bill, we have worked hard to explain, with supporting arguments, why it seems bad to us. Once again, the majority is about to vote against the opinion of all concerned and, in this case, against the unanimous opinion of the unions of civil servants. This is a very bad way of legislating. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This bill, above all, seems to us to be a historical contradiction. Many are concerned about the divisions in our country, whether territorial or generational, and about the widening of social inequalities. It is the public services that make a nation, which guarantee the access of all our citizens to essential goods. We are in a time when public services should not be weakened, nor should the public service and its status. The latter, a protector, is the guarantee of the neutrality and secularity of the civil service, an extremely valuable asset.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u30	That's right! Excellent argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This text is also a historical contradiction at a time when, in our country, everyone agrees to recognize the major nature of environmental issues. Who can imagine that we will invest in the future, that we will guarantee the future of environmental policy without public investment, without public intervention, without a strong and strengthened public service? That is why we will vote without hesitation on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u32	Well done, Mr. Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u33	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u34	I listened carefully to you, my dear colleague Bernalicis, and it was no surprise that I took note of your opposition in principle to the text. I would like to add to the previous statements, firstly to point out that this text is the result of long months of consultation and exchanges, but also of parliamentary debates. Let us not forget that it is in the wake of the great texts that govern our public service: it does not destroy it, nor does it question its status. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] This status, it modernises, as is necessary and expected by the agents themselves, in the field. Some officers, in fact, support this bill. Others have been heard, who oppose it – you have talked about it – but some see it as a response to their expectations, in terms of career building, vocational training, mobility or recognition of their work. These expectations are also those of employers, who are asking for new management tools to improve the functioning of the public service, to recruit profiles that they find difficult to find or convince to join the public service. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The text also responds to the expectations of our fellow citizens regarding the ethics and transparency of public life. That is why the La République on the move, of course, will reject the motion to reject it beforehand. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] Before I conclude, I want to have a thought for all public servants...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u35	It's the kiss of death!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u36	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM and MODEM groups stand up and applaud. – Mr. Alexis Corbière also applauds]] ... holders or contract holders, who, on a daily basis, serve the general interest. I have a very special thought, because we received the information a few minutes ago, for the three soldiers who died yesterday in Guyana as part of their mission. My thoughts go to their families, to their comrades and to those of them who, at this hour, are still wounded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u37	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u38	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 71 Number of votes cast 69 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 11 Against 58
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u39	In the general debate, Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u40	I would first like to return to the procedure for a moment. Perhaps I have not been well heard: I have only indicated that at this stage the motions for rejection seemed unfounded to me in the light of the rules that govern us, even if, in this case, I can be sensitive to certain arguments put forward by our colleague Little. I turn now to the Public Service Transformation Bill before us. It is the result of a triple compromise. This is the case first of all in its inspiration, since the Government has made the bet to modernize the administration, to adapt it to the demands and challenges of society of the twenty-first century, without questioning the status of the civil service, to which public officials are very attached. And, since each of us is presenting his personal example, I recall that I myself was one of those agents. It can also be said that this is a compromise since, in the course of our debates, the rapporteur has managed to organise genuine consultation between all political groups on the sensitive point of the merger between the High Authority for the transparency of public life and the Commission on the Ethics of the Civil Service. Finally, a compromise was reached between the Assembly and the Senate in the Joint Joint Committee, as the commissioners of the two assemblies had the political intelligence to know where to give in and where it was not necessary. This text is therefore the result of a dialogue between the Government and Parliament, and of a practice of parliamentary debate which I believe is exemplary and which would benefit from inspiration for the future of the legislature. On behalf of the Democratic and Related Movement Group, I support a number of provisions which constitute important advances, starting with the simplification of the social dialogue with the refocusing of CAPs, on fewer issues, and the merger of technical committees and committees on hygiene, safety and working conditions – CHSCT. These reforms will make it possible to mobilise, on a constant basis, more working time and energy for the action of the administration at the service of the users. Another provision we support is the increased use of contractors for each of the three components of the public service. Thus, service management will gain in flexibility and adaptability, sometimes also in expertise, in a constantly changing economic, technological, demographic and cultural environment. We are also in favour of the three flagship measures which reinforce the requirement of ethics and transparency: the absorption by the High Authority of the powers previously conferred on the ethics committee, accompanied by an expansion of the composition of the college of this independent administrative authority, which remains unique, regardless of its field of intervention; the obligation for ministries, territorial authorities with more than 80000 inhabitants and the largest public hospital establishments to publish the highest remuneration for employees within their scope; the information given by the Government on the number of agents trained by the major schools, having broken the commitment to serve for a minimum period of time, and on their situation with regard to their obligation to reimburse what is commonly called the "slipper" – I regret, in my personal capacity, that more stringent measures have not been envisaged, since the vast majority of French people do not understand the tolerance of the public authorities for these unacceptable situations. Finally – and this list is not exhaustive – we support the framework of the right to strike in the territorial civil service, a legitimate framework in view of the consequences which these sometimes very painful strikes cause to users, but which, as the CMP has decided, must be preceded by a consultation between the employer community and the trade union organisations. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The entire text is part of the same direction: a modernization of the public service, marked by both greater managerial flexibility and a greater ethical requirement. The MODEM and related group therefore lends it support of conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u41	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u42	It took the Senate right to compel you, the Government and the majority, to take your choices and to get you back on this sad idea that it would be necessary to clarify in the law that "public servants have a duty to serve the general interest". You wanted to remind the public servants of a duty they have blazed to the body, at the very moment when you are organizing the weakening of the guarantees to enable them to fulfil it. This is a rather striking overview of how you view public servants and the public service. The weakening of the status that you are organizing in the name of a narrow ideological approach, well set that you are in the ruts of a liberalism as dated as the one that made you believe last night that the CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement; Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – was an agreement of the future, questioning the ability of civil servants to serve the public interest. Behind so-called technical, simplification or coordination provisions, you cannot hide, in fact, the break with our long history of your project – which has nothing but the oblivion of our common history, forged by the laws of 1946, 1983 and 1984. Your project is in breach of the principle of equality. A competitive recruitment based solely on the skills of the candidates is not an archaism of the old world, unless it wants to lose out on article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789, which states that "all citizens being equal [in the eyes of the law] are also entitled to all dignity, places and public employment, according to their capacity, and without distinction other than that of their virtues and talents". On the other hand, the widespread use of contractors – which are likely to make up 40 per cent of the staff of the administration –, the possibility of using project contracts for all categories of civil servants and the possibility of opening all permanent jobs in the territorial civil service if the needs of the services or the nature of the functions so warrant, discourage young graduates from entering competitions, put civil servants in a situation of unfair competition and reduce the demands for neutrality of such recruitments as a matter of grief. And what about the reign of short time that you thus bring into the organization of the public service, which should be the guarantor of the long time of our society? Your project is in breach of the principle of independence. The mobility rules that you establish as a modern paragon are in fact to deliver the exercise of public service to arbitrary decisions and to the pressure of the public itself. MPs who make the law have a status not for themselves, but to protect their function. Judges who have to interpret the law enjoy a status not for themselves, but to protect their function. How do you want civil servants who have to make public laws and public policies to stay on course of the public interest, once they have been exposed and handed over to all influences? Your project is in breach of the principle of citizenship. The questioning of guarantees, the weakening of trade union organizations, the provisions introduced in the bill for a school of trust, by Minister Blanquer, on the duty of exemplary teachers, are indeed as many intimidations and setbacks of public servants in which, in the end, you have little confidence. With all the organizations representing the public service, we reject this deception. We are defending another public service, a public service that has the human resources to meet its objectives, as opposed to your "cost killers" policy of eliminating 120,000 public service positions during the quinquennium. We are defending a public service whose agents are respected and who are involved in a real social dialogue and not in a pure form, such as the one you have pretended to lead. We defend the specificity of public service in which society can find resources to reform the liberal business model. Long-term concern, preservation of common property, responsibility, are among the principles that must govern the whole society and the public administration that is its servant. This is what the Socialist Members of Parliament have already defended on several occasions since the beginning of this Parliament – I am thinking in particular of the bill that I had the honour of defending with Dominique Potier, entitled "New Enterprise and New Governances", as well as our amendments to the bill on business growth and transformation – PACTE. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] The agreement reached in CMP with the Senate right once again shows the truth of your policy, Secretary of State: it is a right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u43	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u44	I shall begin by regretting that the Government has chosen the expedited procedure. I regret it all the more because you have shown, Mr Secretary of State, a genuine availability in our debates, a certain openness of mind – as the rapporteur does. It is therefore really a pity that we have not had time to address further certain issues, including constitutionality, such as those referred to at the moment by Boris Vallaud concerning equal access to public employment – protected by article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789 – or concerning statutory guarantees, since contractual agents will, if I may say so, put in some way the status of civil servant. Unlike our colleagues in the Senate, who wanted to " anchor" the few contributions that they managed to get accepted, the members of the Republicans Group will not vote for this text, for several substantive reasons. You succeed in presenting us with a text that is not sufficiently reformative to justify its somewhat pretentious title of "public service transformation" and, at the same time – art of the same time unique to the majority – destabilizing enough to raise real concerns among public servants, especially those who are less close to decision-making powers. For the past 15 years, however, many reports have proposed reforms of the civil service after suggesting that consideration should be given to missions that deserve to be sacralized as essential tasks of the State and to missions that might otherwise be recruited in line with private law. But you have not followed any of these tracks and you are content to tinker with some kind of in-between. On the reform side, you propose the use of the contract but in a totally inconsistent way. I will take only one example: the office of general secretary of town hall, which the rapporteur knows particularly well...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u45	I was actually Director General of Services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u46	This is just a change of title. In order to recruit a general secretary of town hall, I said, municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants will be able to use the contract, as well as municipalities with more than 40,000 inhabitants. The municipalities with a population of between 1000 and 40,000 will therefore be required to carry out statutory recruitments. All of this is totally incomprehensible, and this is, I insist, just one of the examples of this DIY, of this pit which I have just mentioned. I note in passing that the impact assessment clearly shows that your reform will have no economic effect – so it is not clear what this is all about. As for legitimate concerns for staff, I will note the removal of CAP competencies in terms of deployments and advancements. What will be the rule tomorrow? At the end of our discussions, we do not see any clearer: will networking be privileged? The power of the little leader? You have not answered this very serious problem in any way. At the end of the Assembly's first reading, however, there was a subject of satisfaction: the reform of the ethics of the senior civil service, since it was now on the latter that the arrangements were refocused. I note two advances: the abolition of the ethics committee for the benefit of the High Authority for the transparency of public life, with a real guarantee of independence, and the publication of the opinions of the committee. How, Mr. Secretary of State, can we not stress the duplicity of the Government? I'm sorry to use that word, but there's no other word. In fact, in the National Assembly, the Government supported the automatic publicity of the High Authority's opinions on the transparency of public life in slippery cases and, at the same time, appeared before the Senate in favour of the abolition of the same publicity. I see no other word than "duplicity" to describe such behaviour. In one case, you are in favour of advertising, and in another case, you are in favour of non-advertising. In fact, all of this hides badly the unease that is yours when it comes to transparency. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] A real reform of the public service must address two issues: on the one hand, the control of public expenditure; on the other hand, the quality and performance of the public service, which also depend on the career development of the staff and their remuneration. By the way you have chosen to take, you succeed in not responding to either of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u47	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u48	For several years, public services have been moving away from the French or disappearing from our territories, and in a way the effectiveness of the action of the State and our local authorities has been diminished. It is not an impression: that is what our fellow citizens are experiencing. The unprecedented democratic malaise that our country has been experiencing for several months is certainly one of the illustrations of this divide that has gradually settled between the public authorities and our fellow citizens. We know how to bridge this gap. They rely on greater deconcentration, a new wave of decentralisation and a genuine capacity for differentiation for local and regional authorities, in order to adapt the responses to the expectations of the inhabitants of each territory. In reality, Secretary of State, these elements are missing in the text – and I think you regret it, deep down. If, of course, a transformation of the public service is necessary and its evolution is necessary, it must also be done through the deconcentration and decentralization movements that I have just mentioned. You are beginning to do so, and some government departments are deconcentrating in the territories. We have also experienced extreme centralization in prefectural cities or in regional prefectures. But without a new wave of decentralization, this shock of decentralization that we are waiting for, and which is the only one likely to empower local elected officials and give them a real capacity to respond to the expectations of our fellow citizens, will not happen. I stress the importance of the concept of differentiation, to which the Freedom and Territory Group is very attached. The same cannot be said of the problems faced by two territories as different as, for example, Wallis-et-Futuna and Eure-et-Loir. There are, however, some positive flexibilities, starting with those aimed at fluidizing the relations between the three public offices, which previously formed separate silos that did not talk to each other. There is, of course, a need to consider careers that can shift from one public service to another. The experiment with the conventional break-up also seems to me a positive point, both for civil servants, who can sometimes find themselves in a work impasse, and for public employers for whom it could be a solution. Our group also welcomes the decision not to proceed with the ex officio secondment of the STCs. It seems, however, that the non-application of this measure is not definitive, but you may want to reassure us on this point. We also welcome the obligation of the State to draw up a three-year road map that will indicate the directions for human resources management in the public service and their anticipated impact, as they have one, on local and regional authorities. This will also allow territorial employers to have more visibility on their local budgets. The same applies to progress in the areas of occupational equality, prevention of discrimination and disability. They are in the right direction, but, like other measures in your bill, they are insufficient to produce all of their effects in practice. You'll tell me you're on a road. In fact, you're not going completely to the end. For example, you are planning to sanction the lack of development or renewal of the action plan on occupational equality, but you are not planning to sanction its lack of implementation. This is also valid in the area of disability policy, on which there is a lack of a financial component. How will you finance the Fund for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities in the Public Service – FIPHFP – in order to implement the provisions adopted – and they are essential? Similarly, as far as learning is concerned, funding is lacking for the territorial civil service. Bringing half of this funding to the National Centre for Territorial Public Service – CNFPT – and the other half being paid by the communities – does not seem to us to be a good bill. As far as the project contract is concerned, I have a regret. I regret that it was not a CDI limited to the duration of the project. Look at the evolution carried out in the interim in recent years. How do you want a person in CSD to have access to a loan, a dwelling, or to the purchase of a vehicle to ensure his mobility precisely to go to work? The advantage of a project CDI is that it was precisely able to meet these expectations. We also alerted you to social dialogue. If we were not opposed in principle to the creation of a single body, we would expect concrete counterpart. In any case, social dialogue is to be reinvented entirely. Let me conclude on a subject mentioned earlier by Olivier Marleix: the lack of strong measures concerning the ethics of senior officials. The days we have just lived show that this ethics applies all the more when we have the honour to serve the State, and when we are subject to the duty of impartiality and neutrality that our colleagues often refer to. Statutory protection is in fact accompanied by a requirement. The slippers, of which we have been able to know different formulas in the past, no longer have to be. We can't go on like this anymore. In the minds of our fellow citizens, trust can only be restored if every custodian of public authority complies with the requirement to provide answers. Senior officials must submit to it, as parliamentarians do. [[Olivier Marleix applauds]] This is why several of the members of the Libertés et Territoires group are reserved for this text. For my part, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u49	I would like to announce that, on the bill as a whole, in view of the text of the CMP, I have before me a request for a public vote from the La République en marche group and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u50	We are looking at a bill to transform, to make a profound change in the public service. It deals primarily with human resources management, but in fact it is the State itself that it challenges, and our understanding of the general interest. The republican public service, in French, if I may say, as conceived in our country over the course of history, is at the heart of our social model. It is a very specific reality within the Nation, it follows the evolutions of society and accompanies them. It is 5.4 million officers who devote all their professional time to their duties. It is a staff who have generally chosen the public service, and who are destined to stay there in a career. It rotates the workings of the state, and we consider it the best embodiment of the general interest. It is our public officials who ensure the permanence of this great architecture. And it is their working conditions that you are calling into question by this focused text on the issue of "human resources management". The formula borrows from the private sector. And for good reason! In 2017, Emmanuel Macron, candidate for the Presidency of the Republic, declared: "It is necessary to manage the state as a company. We disagree. What do you mean? That doesn't mean anything. A company? Which one? There are different types of enterprises. Philosophically, a company is not the same as a state. A company produces and is intended to make profit. This is not the mission of the public service. It is not true that it is necessary to manage a state like a company. The State does not have to seek profitability or the accumulation of profits. It has another mission: the search for the general interest, which sometimes imposes investments, developments, constructions. How can we manage the fruit of a historic construction like a private entity whose foundations and objectives are deeply opposed? Your vision is changing the main principles of public service. She thinks the official as a manager, user as a client, and the state as a start-up. In fact, this project does not transform the public service, it punctures it. In article 20, you punctuate the right to strike, which is nevertheless a fundamental right guaranteed by the preamble of the 1946 Constitution. It will now be necessary to file an individual declaration 48 hours in advance to exercise this right, which by its very nature is collective. A year and a half ago, one of your colleagues, who has since become a minister, denounced on the radio the "gravity". You want to scare the officials. You want to persuade them that they are subject to sanctions if they strike. You want to make sure that the strike is no longer a collective decision! I remember that when I was a teacher, we met with all the colleagues in the morning in a general meeting to discuss whether we were going to strike. If you have to file a declaration 48 hours in advance, it becomes something else, and you knew it. By generalizing contractors in the public service, it goes without saying that the threat to them is quite different and limits their ability to mobilize. This is the whole point of this text! Nicolas Sarkozy was once pleased with the fact that this was no longer seen when a strike was taking place in the country. That was in her dreams! When you strike, it's still evident, fortunately. But you still want to attack what is one of our national heritages. Yes, in France, we are mobilizing! Yes, in France, we do not accept inequalities! Yes, in France, people are so attached to public service that they mobilize when they attack him! By limiting the right to strike, you are unaware of the very reasons for the strike, in particular the reasons for the seventy-five hospital services that are currently being mobilised. Between 2007 and 2012, with Sarkozy's general review of public policies – RGPP – 150,000 civil servants were abolished. Under the Dutch quinquennium they were 33500. After these ten years of dismantling the state opens a new sequence, yours. You had announced 120,000 job cuts. Following the mobilization of the yellow vests, which upset the country, you agreed to reduce this number to 85,000. In spite of that, it's all damage, already! None of this is annoyance. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] I wanted to denounce the slippery that your text maintains the possibility. As you will have understood, we are opposed to this proposal and will vote against it. And we think that you are doing a very bad service to the public service, which, I repeat, is composed of officers who have chosen this career. They know that often their wages won't be hilarious. Since 2010, they have been subject to the freezing of the index point. But they chose that because of the status of civil servant. You question that status. That is why we are fiercely opposed to your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u51	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u52	Since the beginning of the legislature, many Joint Joint Committees have been concluded. Prior to the agreement on the proposed public service reform, our Assembly and the Senate agreed on school, health or biodiversity. Do we have to see the testimony of the wisdom of the chambers, taking the path of a reasonable consensus at the end of the debates? Or is it the sign that, once the cameras are far away, away from the noise and the lights, in the peace of a commission, our colleagues from La République en marche and the Senate right have in common the same vision of the world, the same project for France, namely a right-wing project? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the right, the old right and the new right who, hand in hand, govern this country, with the same contempt of our history, political and social, with the same intention of privatizing every piece of the state. Yes, we must be on the right to organize such a frontal attack on our career civil service through massive recourse to the contract. Yes, one must be on the right not to understand that public service and public services are one. Yes, it is because the official is not subject to a contract, but to the law, that he works in the general interest and reports to society as a whole! It is also because its status is protective that it guarantees the neutrality of the public service. Finally, it is because he is recruited by competition that he puts himself at the service of the common good in impartiality and equality. Yes, it is necessary to be on the right to see these freedoms only as a carcan and to make up in progress what is a terrible social and political backwardness! Because tomorrow, by the promulgation of this law, the door will be wide open to co-picking, to clientelism, to the confusion of the aims of the public and the private...,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u53	You're talking about experience!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u54	It's the experience of the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u55	... the challenge of founding principles such as responsibility, neutrality and secularism. And the entire civil service will be concerned: the state civil service, the territorial civil service and the hospital civil service. Yes, it is necessary to be on the right to establish project contracts, these contracts of extreme precariousness, which will concern all categories, including categories C, which are the most fragile! It is easy to see how harmful this Kleenex job scheme, built on the model of mini-jobs and short contracts – these systems that plunge thousands of workers into total poverty – is. Yes, one must be on the right to assume the removal of the CHSCT, which is the means for officers and their representatives to play their full role in the protection, health and safety of personnel. Yes, it is necessary to be on the right to attack the right to strike, forcing it drastically on the pretext of continuity of public services,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u56	More than right, reactionaries!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u57	... at the same time obstructing a fundamental right enshrined in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u58	They're not on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u59	Yes, you have to be on the right...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u60	You have to be reactionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u61	... to empty the public services of their officials, organising their departure and authorizing their secondment to the private sector, a process which leads to the weakening of public services, thus the State. [[Smiles and applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] A icing on the cake, the Government chose a former socialist deputy, now Secretary of State, to defend this right-wing project. We have found that he has put a lot of zeal into it – but isn't it said that there is no more anticlerical than a defrocated priest? There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen: this text, which aims at the gradual extinction of the status of the public service, will be one of the most reactionary in the history of our Republic! History will judge all the more hard those who will vote because the stakes of this century require us to embark on a very different path. More than ever, the ecological and social emergency requires public authorities to take into account the common interest. More than ever, the era called for more public services, more democracy, closer links between citizens and public action. More than ever, we need to consolidate our statutory public service. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must be on the right not to understand this, and refuse, over and over again, to hear what the French have repeatedly repeated throughout the territory for almost a year. That is why the Communist deputies oppose this bill with all their strength, in any way contrary to the republican ideal and to the stakes of the next century.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u62	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u63	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u64	After several months of consultation and preparation, after several weeks of particularly rich parliamentary debates, after discussion with our colleagues in the Senate, we come to the conclusion of parliamentary debates on the Public Service Transformation Bill. In a few moments, we will take a decision on the text adopted by the Joint Committee a few days ago, which the Group of the European People's Party will, of course, vote on. In advance of my remarks, I would like to commend the quality of our discussions and work on this bill throughout the course of its journey, to the discussions with our honourable senators at the CMP. I would also like to acknowledge the work of the two rapporteurs of the text in the Senate, Ms.Catherine Di Folco and Mr.Loïc Hervé. The text has been the subject of different approaches, and that is normal, but it seems to me that they have always expressed themselves in the interest of a shared ambition: to strengthen our public service...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u65	You're doing the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u66	... and to reaffirm our commitment to the five million women and men who, on a daily basis, are in the service of the public service, whether they are incumbent or contractual. Our exchanges have allowed us to find ourselves, in all groups, on certain points – it is important to stress this. This is the case with advances in transparency of public life and ethics. I would like to pay particular tribute to the work carried out on this subject by our colleagues Fabien Matras and Olivier Marleix over the last two years, on which we have relied. Finally, on behalf of the La République on the move, I would like to thank our rapporteur, Mrs Émilie Chalas, and the Secretary of State, Mr Olivier Dussopt, and his teams, for their availability, for listening to them, for the precise answers they have given to all the questions or remarks made, and for their continuing willingness to build this text together. I would also like to commend the work of our colleagues Laurence Gayte, on behalf of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, and Eric Pouillat, on behalf of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, for their contributions to our work and their strong involvement in the development of the bill as a whole. We are committed to our public service and to our public service model. To see them continue, it is sometimes necessary to modernize them, to change them, to adapt them to our times. That is the purpose of the bill that we will pass one last time in a few minutes. Our will is not to reduce the number of civil servants, as I have heard here or there. You will also note that the text does not contain any budget articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u67	That's what's worried!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u68	The purpose of the bill, which is consistent with the broad provisions defining the general framework of our public service, is to provide responses to public officials and employers. This is what it allows by promoting a more strategic and effective social dialogue in accordance with the guarantees of public officials; developing managerial levers for more effective public action; simplifying and ensuring the transparency and fairness of the management framework for public officials; promoting mobility and accompanying professional transitions; promoting equality between women and men, and better combating gender-based and sexual violence in the workplace, as well as promoting access to public employment for persons with disabilities. We have been able to agree on all of these objectives with our colleagues in the Senate, who have truly strengthened the text by providing their expertise. They have heard our willingness to genuinely modernise social dialogue in the public service, to professionalise the supervision of contract workers, to better protect the most vulnerable workers, notably through the creation of a precarious bonus, to establish a genuine culture of ethics in all territories through the merger of the HATVP and the ethics commission within a single independent authority, to transform the formation of the senior public service; For our part, we have heard their request to further strengthen the managerial tools that will be made available to public employers tomorrow, the ethical monitoring procedure, as well as the mechanisms for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the public service and the construction of their careers. With our rapporteur, Ms.Émilie Chalas, we have also heard the position of senators regarding STCs, sports technical advisors, a position that some of you share, we know. We therefore took the decision, at the CMP, to remove the STCs from the ex officio secondment arrangements provided for in the bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In a few moments, we will adopt a text that strengthens the attractiveness and responsiveness of our public service. It will then be implemented and evaluated. I know that we will be committed to continuing this work together, with a continuing concern to defend public servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u69	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u70	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u71	The public service finds its legitimacy in the services it provides and in their effectiveness. According to the lawyer Léon Duguit, the State is a federation of public services with the aim of organizing the society and ensuring its functioning for the common good; its agents participate in the performance of a service thus exceeding the task of mere execution. Our fellow citizens are committed to their public services – they reminded us recently. However, expectations are changing, new needs are emerging, and the public service environment is not without consequences. The status of the civil service needs to be reshaped in the light of changing collective and technical needs. The IDU and independent group shares this tangible vision of the public service, which is to change it, to adapt it to our times, rather than to question it, or to look at an equally damaging status quo. Although his title went a little beyond his real ambitions, the bill to transform the public service was therefore welcome, but it needed to be debated and improved. The Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement which is the culmination of the useful work of our Assemblies. What do we have to remember? From our point of view, one difficulty remains with regard to the aspect of social dialogue. We have not obtained any inflection in this area. We continue to argue that there was no need to merge the technical committees and the CHSCTs, which functioned well, especially in the territorial civil service, such as emptying the Joint Administrative Committees out of their substance. Without effective and peaceful social dialogue, close to the agents, conflicts may knock on the door. In a constructive spirit, however, we can be satisfied with several positive developments. With regard to ethics and transparency, we welcome the creation of the new HATVP, the result of a joint trans-party work – thank you. The rapporteur on this subject – intended to lead to better monitoring of the activities of civil servants in relation to the private sector. Similarly, we are in favour of new advances such as controlling the payment of the "slipper", or the management of the remunerations of the senior public service, a constant demand of our group. These are improvements that must be emphasized for what they are, but also for their overall meaning: the realization that the high public service is not an exempt sphere of democratic control. Another point that has attracted our group's support is that of new flexibility in the management of human resources. If they do not lead to a breakdown of the status, the new possibilities of recourse to contract workers may prove useful, particularly in the territorial civil service. However, we will remain vigilant about the major developments in this text. The project contract, which is the transposition of private sector mission contracts, seems interesting because it allows for the specific needs of local and regional authorities to be met in a field and in a limited period of time. However, the relative impreciseness of the text may lead to a more systematic contracting out of a number of agents, especially given the re-establishment of categories C within its scope, which we regret. Similarly, we will follow with precision the use of the conventional break-up mechanism so that it is done in the interests of all. There are other positive aspects to the bill, in particular the withdrawal of sports technical advisers from the secondment mechanism. I welcome this wise decision of the CMP. Finally, I stress the various powers of the Government to legislate by ordinance. It is not seriously possible to divest Parliament of the issues of occupational health, social dialogue, training and learning. That is why we call for parliamentarians from all groups to be involved in the writing of orders. Mr Secretary of State, you are committed to this: we will ensure that this commitment is respected! Finally, we are pleased that the National Assembly and the Senate have reached agreement on this bill, which, without constituting a revolution, allows for several relevant changes in public service law. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] The spirit of the vote of IDU and independent Members will therefore be both positive and vigilant. Our commitment must not prevent us from really looking at tomorrow's course for the future of our public service, a vast subject whose text has only come up with small touches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u72	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u73	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u74	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 100 Number of votes cast 98 Absolute majority 50 For adoption 81 Against 17
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u75	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u76	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to reiterate my previous thanks to the chairman of the committee, the rapporteurs, the rapporteur and all the speakers, in particular Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, Mr Fabien Matras and Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky. Without your help, the text would not be what it is today. It is therefore your text, that of the National Assembly. I hope that the Senate will adopt it, and that in the coming weeks we will be able to implement it together. I think we have taken a big step for the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u77	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u78	The meeting was resumed. [[Applause on various benches]] I welcome the presence of the members of the establishment for the integration into employment of Bourges-Osmoy and thank them for attending our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u79	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to safeguard the interests of the defence and national security of France in connection with the operation of mobile radio networks (No 2112).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u80	Mr Eric Bothorel, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u81	I have had the honour of presenting here, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, the proposal for a law on the preservation of the interests of defence and national security in connection with the operation of mobile radio networks, also known as the 'Proposal for a 5G law', and I come back to the rostrum to share with you the positive conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee. As opening remarks, I would like to acknowledge the quality of our work and our discussions, which have enriched this text at each of its various stages, in committee and then in public, before the Assembly and the Senate. On this important subject, everyone had in mind to find an effective compromise for the rapid implementation of this new mechanism on behalf of national security. This explains the success of the Joint Joint Committee which met on 3 July. Before I go back in detail to the content of the text of the CMP, I would like to remind you of the spirit of this bill: it is a matter of guaranteeing the safety of our mobile radio networks as part of the commercial deployment of 5G, scheduled in France for the beginning of 2020. ARCEP – the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes – has just presented the modalities for the allocation of 5G frequencies for their next auction. It was therefore imperative that we quickly seize the subject to ensure that this deployment will be carried out in good conditions in order to maximize the gains made by 5G – on which I will not return, because we have already discussed them at length – while of course guaranteeing the protection of our networks against the risks associated with this technology. The collegial work carried out in the Joint Joint Committee has led to a very satisfactory text since it values the work done before the National Assembly while making the best use of the Senate's additions. This text is an excellent compromise for two main reasons. First of all, the spirit of the text, as it was presented and defended in the National Assembly, is preserved: the red lines we had set are maintained. In accordance with our wish, the pace of deployment of 5G systems in the national territory will not be able to force the Prime Minister to decide whether to refuse the operation of 5G systems. Article 5, which provides that the Government shall submit to Parliament an annual report setting out the information on this issue, offers a useful compromise solution in order to reaffirm the commitment of the elected representatives and the Government to the fight against white areas without weakening the legal scope of the system. The reference to acts of interference by a foreign State, inserted by the Senate, is also deleted, in favour of a return to the original text of the National Assembly, which referred to acts of interference by a "non-member State of the European Union". Maintaining our version sends a strong political message to the European Commission and other Member States working on an overall risk assessment, and also has the merit of avoiding the risk of incompatibility with European law that we raised in our discussions at first reading. Secondly, the discussion in CMP led us to retain the useful contributions of the Senate to strengthen the legal certainty of the newly created system. I am thinking first of all of the details of the list listing the various devices concerned and of the inclusion of electronic communications by public authorities in the scope of authorisation. I am also thinking of Article 4 on the link between authorisation schemes for the acquisition of equipment and their operation: a fair balance has been struck in favour of the newly created regime, which will take precedence over considerations of efficiency and legal certainty. Finally, I mention the possibility for the Prime Minister not to disclose the reasons for his refusal when this communication could affect national security. This supplement is perfectly in line with the spirit of the text as we defended it in the National Assembly. For these various reasons, I invite you to vote for this compromise text, which shows the spirit of responsibility that drives parliamentarians on these issues of general interest and the usefulness of the shuttle for quality legislative work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to associate with my speech all those who participated in our work in the National Assembly, with a particular thought for Mounir Belhamiti, who had been singularly invested in the National Defence Committee seized for opinion, and, through it, for our three soldiers who fell in Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u82	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u83	I will not go back to the challenge of deploying 5G for our economy – Agnès Pannier-Runacher and Bruno Le Maire have had the opportunity on several occasions to raise it before you – preferring to stress the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, the recent progress of the Government in implementing our roadmap and the next steps. We have succeeded, in four months of parliamentary work, in improving, simplifying and clarifying the bill; This is the result of the investment of your assembly, especially of your committee seized on the merits. You have thus improved the protections provided – I am thinking of the strengthening of criminal sanctions in case of non-compliance with the obligations imposed by the bill. You have also ensured that 5G's deployment is not slowed down by setting deadlines for the publication of regulations and delays in the processing of operators' requests by the Prime Minister's services, so that action can be taken quickly but without haste. I would like to welcome the spirit of consensus of the Joint Joint Committee, which allows us to examine the bill in its final form. The CMP has further improved the text by requesting a monitoring of the speed of deployment: the Government will provide Parliament with an annual report on the possible impact of the new mechanism on costs and on the speed of deployment of the network by operators. These are the major advances made during these months of parliamentary debates. They allow us to establish a stable, simple and protective legal framework, without hampering the deployment of 5G. The Government is moving forward to deploy 5G as soon as possible. Last Monday, ARCEP launched a consultation on a draft specification for the allocation of the 3.5 gigahertz band. This consultation, which will remain open until the beginning of September, will improve or clarify, if necessary, the conditions for allocation. The draft terms of reference also correspond to the Government's guidelines on competition, land-use planning and innovation. In the field of competition, first of all: the conduct of deployment will preserve competition between operators so that the price-quality ratio of offers remains competitive, which is the case today when comparing the French offer with European offers. As far as land use planning is concerned, the deployment must allow all territories access to 5G and its specific uses within a reasonable time frame. Indeed, we do not want to develop 5G in cities and forget it in the most rural areas. I would also like to remind you of the objectives of the Government's road map. By 2020, each operator will have to cover two major cities, and by 2025 the main transport routes will have to be covered. In addition, we have two targets: 12,000 5G-equipped sites per operator in 2025, one quarter of which – starting in 2024 – in rural areas. We want to avoid, as I said, a differentiated deployment of 5G, which would vary depending on whether we are in urban or rural areas. Operators will have to offer a rate of 240 megabits per second on three-quarters of their mobile sites by 2022, and then on all their sites by the end of 2030: in terms of the flow rate, we do not want the 5G offer to differ according to the areas of housing or activity. Finally, the draft terms of reference correspond to the Government's innovation guidelines. Deployment must meet the needs of industrialists and enable new uses, particularly industrial ones, to develop. New frequency licensees will first have to allow industry or service providers – I am thinking of health care for example – to access 5G in good conditions. Finally, the cover obligations in the workbook follow three axes. The first is to end the saturation of networks in dense areas. The second objective is to develop professional uses based on differentiated services. The third objective is to ensure the gradual upscaling of the entire network, both in terms of flow and differentiated services, according to several milestones up to 2030. Ambitious targets have therefore been set for improving the flow rate for all and for low latency, all technologies and frequency bands combined. You now know the status of the Government's action. I will conclude with the steps that are now ahead. The next step will be to set the fees associated with these allocations and to launch the award procedure on the basis of a final version of the specification proposed by ARCEP. The spectrum allocation will thus begin in the fall. At the end of September, the Commission des participations et des transferments de l'Etat will issue an opinion on the auction reserve price, which will then be fixed by order. Since frequencies are a public good, the State will refrain from slashing the allocated blocks, while ensuring that the amount allocated to them does not compromise the investment capacities of operators in order to deploy 5G throughout the territory. Our first objective, as you know, is not budget: it is to take a technological advance to gain competitiveness, create activity and jobs everywhere in France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Olivier Becht also applauds, as does Mr M的jid El Guerrab]] I conclude by thanking you for the spirit of consensus that the rapporteur has stressed and by welcoming the commitment of the rapporteurs and the technical work that has been done. If we can make a technological advance in 5G while protecting our strategic data, it will be partly thanks to the work of the National Assembly and the Senate, which has complemented the Government's commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u84	In the general debate, Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u85	We will all talk about the arrival of 5G, and for the reason that its stakes are very important, because it appears to be a real engine for our economy. Everyone seems to want it and have to win on its deployment: equipment manufacturers, operators, smartphone and terminal manufacturers, content and service publishers. 5G is therefore a powerful and much-anticipated growth relay: with it, operators will benefit from new uses that will increase the number of network subscribers due to the explosion of connected objects. The current 4G standard, however in service – and still, not everywhere – for less than ten years, is close to saturation in dense areas. It is also not adapted to the variety of existing or future needs. The State itself has an interest in making rapid progress in the allocation of 5G frequencies, not only because of the profit that will sound and stumble for public accounts, but also because 5G will promote new investments in France as well as the emergence of a playground for companies that will develop the new services. The operation and virtualization of 5G networks will also allow for a more flexible, tailor-made use of network capabilities according to usage. The proposed legislation is therefore intended to establish a new regulatory framework for the security and integrity of telecommunications networks when 5G arrives. But we could have discussed it before, as much as the current legislative framework needed to be modernized. The network architecture of 5G decentralizes network intelligence and transforms end equipment into essential nodes of the network. Whereas, until now, only the equipment of the telecommunications network core had to be validated by the National Agency for Information Systems Security – the ANSSI – for security reasons, tomorrow, with 5G, it is all the equipment of the network that the Agency will have to validate and control, as well as software updates that could affect security. That is how we modernise the existing legislative framework. The bill is well drafted because it does not discriminate against any player in the sector: it is up to everyone to respect the requirements of the State which, by ensuring the protection of the exchanges of citizens or companies, is very clearly in its role. I take this opportunity to welcome once again the efficiency of the work of ANSSI: its function is all the more essential as our lives and that of companies are now fully connected. It will therefore be necessary to ensure, as part of the review of the next finance bill, that it has sufficient means to carry out these new tasks. What I regret most is the narrowness of the subject under discussion in this debate, when it should have allowed us to address two points. First, the text provided an opportunity to discuss with the Government its 5G strategy and deployment ambitions. Although ARCEP's first announcements on the modalities for allocating 5G frequencies are rather encouraging, particularly for industries in rural areas, it would be interesting to hold a debate here on the topic at the beginning of the year: digital coverage of the territory is a strategic issue for all of us. Next, we only deal in text with network equipment, thus concealing the security and espionage risks associated with storing data in cloud servers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u86	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u87	Why let the controversy stir up about Chinese routers by ignoring the fact that a company I will not mention is a provider of cloud servers, except that it is the main provider of cloud services in France, whether it is Orange, OVH or others? I therefore take this rostrum to alert you, Secretary of State, on this subject and ask you what the Government intends to do to ensure the protection of French citizens and businesses from the risk of espionage through these servers. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM and MODEM groups]] Nevertheless, the bill is really useful, well-built and balanced. For all these reasons, the Members of the European Parliament, the UDI Members and the independent Members of my group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u88	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u89	While in The Life of Galilee, Brecht engages in an apology of the scientific mind, he also recalls that research must not develop for itself and lose sight of "that the unique goal of science is to reduce the misery of human life". We are at the dawn of a major technological shift: the promises of 5G are immense; Thanks to increased flows and very low latency, this technology is a breaking innovation for the telecommunications sector, but also, more structurally, for our entire life and economy. If France wants to remain in the world competition, it cannot afford to miss this turning point. The aim is to set up a strategic infrastructure throughout the country capable of operating the factories of the future, the autonomous car, telemedicine, connected objects and energy networks of tomorrow. As the presentation made yesterday by Elon Musk shows, we must expect tomorrow to be able to download in our brains new languages and new knowledge that will open us to the vastness of artificial intelligence. Unfortunately, these promising technological changes are accompanied by increased cybersecurity threats. As Paul Valéry's formula reminds us, progress must not be a curse; It is even an asset for millions of people suffering from diseases that science can cure tomorrow. But let us not be naive: the technical characteristics of 5G and its decentralized organisation increase the risk of espionage, interruption of operation or computer attack, even though some of its future applications are particularly critical. Should we recall the dangers of an autonomous car driven remotely by a malicious computer hacker, the diversions of any kind that, without increased protection, could arise, or the possibility offered to foreign powers to recover some of the personal data of our fellow citizens? Do we have to say again that, recently, one of Europe's leading women leaders – Mrs Angela Merkel, not to mention it – has been spied on by the American services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u90	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u91	The risk is all the greater as the sector is structured around a small number of equipment manufacturers, primarily Huawei, whose close relations with the Chinese state are worrying both across the Atlantic and here in Europe. However, the same question could be raised not only with regard to the Chinese, but also with regard to the United States. It is therefore legitimate to call for a higher level of 5G security requirements in order to protect our interests, independence, security and citizens. By introducing a system of authorisation prior to the operation of certain equipment, this text aims to achieve this objective. We share this, of course, because the major challenge is to reconcile the demands of rapid deployment, which is essential to ensure the competitiveness of French companies, with the need to secure infrastructure. To do this, we must act quickly, methodically, but without haste. Indeed, France is up-to-date with regard to the network security standards contained in the recommendations of the European Commission as well as in ARCEP's deployment roadmap. That is why, as we repeat, we regret that the Government wished to include these provisions in the law by an amendment tabled in a rush during the consideration of the draft law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE Act. Similarly, on such matters, it would have been preferable for us to rely on the impact assessment as well as on the advice of the Council of State, which would have been communicated to us had it been a bill. However, we support the provisions of the text. In particular, the introduction of a prior authorisation regime is in the right direction, even if its organizational arrangements would have merited further clarification. At the end of the Joint Joint Committee, the contributions of the Senate were to a large extent maintained, mainly with a view to reducing the constraints on operators: for example, 4G networks and previous networks are now excluded from the prior authorisation scheme and the two authorisation schemes are merged. We will still have to continue our efforts to move forward together with the operators and our European partners. Beyond security issues, the deployment of 5G questions the digital planning of our territory: today, white areas remain, as at home, in my birth department, the Cantal. The commitments made by operators in January 2018 under the New Deal mobile are slow to make their effects felt in all territories. It is in this context that we have read the draft specifications presented by ARCEP this Monday, in anticipation of the sale of 5G frequencies. The limitation of auction prices should allow operators to invest more in the quality and deployment of the network, which is a good thing. We are also meeting the ambitious deployment targets, including 20 to 25 per cent coverage of rural sites by 2025. What Schumpeter called creative destruction at work in technical progress cannot be achieved at the expense of the most isolated or vulnerable, both in France and abroad. We in the Liberties and Territories Group will vote with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u92	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u93	The bill aims to regulate the operation of 5G networks by subjecting them to prior approval by the Prime Minister. The La France insoumise group is in favour of such control: we must not allow ourselves to settle without controlling them with the technologies that will have such an impact on society. I welcome this breach of the principle of free and undistorted competition. Indeed, cyber espionage risks are high, especially as 5G-related technologies will develop due to the use of connected objects. However, the text must be approached without naivety: there is no question of suggesting that France would align itself with Donald Trump's aggressive position vis-à-vis China, and in particular with the operator Huawei. The risks of espionage by China are real, but I recall that the United States has already – this is a perfectly proven fact – massively spyed on our fellow citizens, even our embassies, our governments, and at least three of our heads of state. We need to guard against cyber espionage wherever it comes from. However, we must reiterate why we have managed to depend on foreign technologies for the development of the new tools: because we have allowed the giant Alcatel to be stripped, by pure liberal ideology, so that we no longer have a French company capable of building these technologies. It is a failure that is guilty of our sovereignty and our ability to decide and control the tools. Since the acquisition of Alcatel by Nokia, more than 1200 posts have been abolished. In January 2019, a third job elimination plan was announced. As for Alstom, the commitments made at the time of the sale were not fulfilled, even though the company receives 75 million euros of public money each year in research tax credit. But the text also forgets other key issues with respect to 5G technology. The issue raised by these networks cannot be reduced to technological issues of Internet coverage of the territory. Admittedly, the problem of the digital divide needs to be addressed; but it is not the creation of a new ultra-fast network that will enable those who do not already have access to Internet tools that are too complex, too expensive and inaccessible in forgotten areas. Moreover, the resolution of the digital divide should not be used as a pretext for the decline of the public service, which would be dematerialised, without a window or physical contact, referring the user to an obscure website where particular cases cannot be dealt with. Nor does the text address the ecological issue. Pannier-Runacher summarized in Les Échos, on 15 July, the Government's objective: "In the end, it's growth in addition. Such a perspective is dangerous because it is not environmentally sustainable. We do not want infinite development of gadgets as expensive as useless, non-recyclable, aimed at connecting everything to everything. The manufacture of these tools consumes rare earths whose extraction conditions are often reprehensible. They require a lot of electricity to operate, whether they are objects whose batteries need to be constantly recharged, servers or antennas. The entire planet will be exposed to radiofrequency radiation in an increased way, without any real hindrance to the potential consequences of electromagnetic pollution on life. The net increase in data exchange also poses a serious problem of personal data protection and privacy protection. How many will start without fear or complex parameterization in the use of these new tools, before realizing that they have also been used to inform about their habits, tastes and preferences of powerful private interests, who will derive juicy profits from selling advertising? Finally, 5G will contribute to the development of addiction on screens. This modern evil, supposed to connect us, actually locks everyone in a digital world, making him incapable of appreciating the real outside world. We are moving towards a model of society in which the refrigerator itself will make the list of races, but in which we will soon be unable to carry out simple tasks ourselves, which computers and other connected objects will do in our place: in the event of a breakdown or a decrease in electrical capacity, we will be lost. The group La France insoumise will therefore vote in favour of a text aimed at controlling the installation of this technology. The bill, however, clearly does not go far enough by sticking to prior authorization. It is our whole model of society that we must rethink, otherwise the ecological urgency will rethink it for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u94	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u95	The purpose of this bill is to ensure a safe environment to prevent the future deployment of 5G from endangering the data that will circulate on the French mobile network. As we know, 5G is making a real technological break for the development of what it is agreed to call the Internet of Things. This fifth generation of mobile telecommunications standards promises speeds up to ten times faster than 4G, as well as an adaptation to nomadic and industrial uses that are always more data-intensive. The deployment of 5G, however, undoubtedly raises serious security issues. The first risk is that 5G will connect many more devices – cars, buses, factories, robots, health devices, etc. – for a wide variety of uses, thus significantly increasing the risk of cyberattacks. The second risk is that 5G will decentralize essential functions such as routing or communication, now managed at the core of the network. If the objective is to lower latency times and promote real-time usage, the danger is to increase, at the same time as relay antennas, the number of access points for potential hackers. In the face of such risks, the text before us proposes only to create a system of prior authorization in order to safeguard the interests of defence and national security. This regime will apply to all hardware and software devices for connecting end-user terminals to the mobile radio network. Is that enough? We don't think so. The fact is that today, in the absence of a real industrial policy at national and European level, we depend, for the equipment that it will be crucial to control in order to deploy the 5G, on the two American and Chinese giants, Qualcomm and Huawei. The elements on which the security of our data is based will therefore depend on foreign equipment and operators. In this context, we will not be able to protect ourselves from the risks of espionage, particularly industrial ones. The authorisation regime you are planning threatens to be only a bulwark of paper! The 5G is promising, but its implementation requires precautions that are now the major absentees of the bill. These precautions should take into account questions about the health and environmental impact of 5G deployment. While it is not formally established that the thermal effects of electromagnetic fields have a significant impact on health, the World Health Organization – WHO – nevertheless considers it necessary to continue investigations in this area. The ecological issue raises less uncertainty: the green Internet remains a fantasy, and the 5G will further enhance the ecological footprint of the network, in particular as a result of the increase in personal data consumption, while the pollution generated by the net industry and its effects on the climate could reach a level equivalent to that of air traffic in the near future. Again, the issue is not sufficiently addressed, for example through tax relief for data centres. In these circumstances, and given the lack of ambition of the text to secure the operation of 5G, our group will abstain from voting on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u96	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u97	On 15 July, ARCEP officially launched the 5G frequency allocation procedure for telecommunications operators, hoping for a commercial deployment by the end of 2020 in the major French cities and the coverage of 12,000 sites, i.e. about two thirds of the population, by 2025. This award procedure is one of the steps in the road map jointly presented by the Government and ARCEP in 2017, encouraging the rapid and organized deployment of 5G. The bill on which we are going to vote, which is the result of a compromise with the Senate, adds a new stage to this journey, bringing security and resilience to the network, without slowing down the arrival of technology. Here I would like to thank all my colleagues, the administrative authorities – in particular ANSSI, ARCEP and the Directorate-General for Enterprise – and the rapporteurs, Éric Bothorel and Catherine Procaccia, for their contribution to this balanced outcome. 5G will play a role in tomorrow's smart cities, home automation, telemedicine and the autonomous car sector. New uses, exploiting the mass of data collected, are expected as future growth relays. However, due to decentralized equipment management, the technical characteristics of 5G make the network more fragile and vulnerable to cyber attacks and espionage, which the text intends to prevent well upstream. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce a system of prior authorisation for operators to operate certain equipment, favouring an approach on a case-by-case basis, irrespective of the equipment manufacturer. This monitoring mechanism ensures that the precautionary principles for the deployment of 5G are respected and complements the already proven provisions, such as article R.226-1 of the Criminal Code on the protection of correspondence secrecy. Based on a pragmatic and responsible approach to operators, this new regime is required as a necessary step for deployment, but also in the name of an imperative of sovereignty and national security, in a global context where China, Korea, Japan and the United States have made significant investments in 5G and where Europe has to catch up. It is now up to the European Union to follow suit. On 26 March, the European Commission recommended a common approach to ensure a high level of cybersecurity for 5G networks across the Union. The dissemination in the Member States of the scheme described in the draft law would ensure the high level of protection sought. Finally, the legislative issues involved in the deployment of 5G are not limited to the security issue, as evidenced by the forthcoming transposition of the recast of the telecommunications framework initiated by the European institutions. However, I believe that we can welcome this text, which is the result of a fair balance between the imperatives of rapid deployment and those of security. The regulations will now have to reflect this balance. The Senior Digital and Position Commission – CSNP – of which I am Vice-President, will ensure that this is done in a timely manner. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups]] It is in this spirit that I call on Members of the La République Group to vote in favour of the bill, as I hope the vast majority of you, ladies and gentlemen, will do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u98	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u99	This text, drawn up by the Joint Joint Committee, has been unanimously agreed; We can only be satisfied with it. We agree with the objective of securing our networks. What a waste of time, however, compared to many countries around the world and our European partners! Operators are already deploying their networks in Germany, while in Estonia and Finland 5G is being marketed today. I will not go into detail on the content of the text. It was essential to legislate and strengthen our arsenal of control and repression so as not to make our country, its businesses, its inhabitants or its security forces vulnerable. It was also important not to delay further the deployment of this technology of the future. As the issue of security and authorizations has been resolved, the problem of 5G deployment throughout the country remains, only a few days after ARCEP's announcements. Will 5G not increase the gap between metropolitan France and peripheral France yet? The Government, in applying its famous principle of "at the same time", not only keeps in mind the revenue for the State budget, i.e. the money that will be put on the table by the operators, but also the spatial planning component, having committed itself that the deployment would allow 90 per cent of the territory to be covered by 2025. This double equation, which bears witness to a laudable intention, may prove to be very difficult to maintain. The frequencies released by the state – between 3.4 and 3.8 gigahertz – due to their technical characteristics, which offer a lot of power over short distances, will be perfectly suitable for dense territories. On the other hand, they will in no way be adapted to rural areas, which require lower frequencies, taking further away. What's more, the 5G-specific beam tracking technology will increase the need for precision. The risk of a split between urban and rural connections is, once again, immense. Indeed, to cover 90 per cent of the territory with the 3.5 gigahertz band, it will take far more than the 12,000 sites planned by the Government. Our colleague Christine Hennion told us right now that 5G would play an important role in the smart cities of tomorrow: it must also play an important role in the smart campaigns of tomorrow! It is therefore urgent to anticipate strongly the opening of long-range bands, such as 1.5 gigahertz, to cover the countryside, not just the areas of activity or some large towns. Second point: are we not repeating the same mistake as for 4G, not this time for financial reasons, but for questions of responsiveness in terms of timely frequency release? We will need a new deal in a few years' time. Nothing would be more formidable, as it is clear that the current New Deal on the 4G skate. This historic agreement, as well as the willingness of the Government and Minister Julien Denormandie to get the rural areas out of the mobile desert in which they are located, must be welcomed. But, a year and a half after the signing of the agreement, our fellow citizens are rightly impatient: in fact, except for the beginning of the coverage of sites identified for the past 10 years, within the framework of plans drawn up by previous governments, there is nothing concrete. And why? Because the procedures are cumbersome, long, complex and technocratic. Between the visits of the teams working on projects in the departments, the requests for indispensable radio studies, the transmission of these studies by the operators, the final transmissions of the priority sites to the general secretariats for regional affairs – SGAR –, the public consultations, the publications of the decrees, the research and the validation of the high points by the leading operators, the time runs, runs! When the process comes to an end, it still takes between 12 and 18 months – a time limit fortunately reduced by the so-called ELAN law –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u100	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u101	...which is long, too long. In the meantime, the locals are fulmining and the companies are irritating, because they are told of 5G while the simple 2G that would allow them to telephone still does not arrive at their home. I'm not talking to you, Secretary of State, about the amazing New Deal Mobile rule on road cover, which has been confirmed to us recently. The main departmental roads will be covered in dotted – especially in the Orne, but I suppose that will also be the case in Ardèche. Indeed, the State indicated that the threshold of 5000 vehicles per day, which requires operators to cover the road, would be strictly understood. For example, the telephone will pass for 10 kilometres if 5001 vehicles use this section on a daily basis, as operators will have to cover it, but it will no longer pass if, 10 kilometres later, only 4999 vehicles are used. It's ubiquitous! [[Mrs Véronique Louwagie and Laure de La Raudière applaud]] That is why we all need to be mobilized on the concrete issues of mobile telephony, to secure the future 5G network, certainly, as we are about to do – we are going to vote in favour of the text – but, above all, to move much faster and coherently on 4G, and to ensure that the next technology, 5G, does not further widen the gap between the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u102	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u103	The preservation of national security in the context of the operation of mobile radio networks is a major issue, which goes beyond political divisions. This is reflected in the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee on this bill, the primary objective of which is the protection of national defence and security. It follows the 5G deployment project for the beginning of 2020, which will be an opportunity for a genuine technological break: we will witness the deployment of autonomous vehicles, the optimisation of energy consumption, the development of new telemedicine services, and even applications that we do not yet think about. This break-up innovation will, however, entail risks to the security of our networks, making it necessary to adapt our legal framework. By creating a system of prior authorisation allowing the Prime Minister to deny an operator the operation of mobile radio network equipment in the event of a proven risk to national security, this bill adequately addresses the challenge. The National Assembly and the Senate have done real co-construction work on this text. Members of Parliament and Senators have been committed to raising the level of 5G network security requirements. I am thinking in particular of the removal of the geographical scope of operations in the application for authorisation file, which is in the right direction, because it is not up to the State to dictate to the operators their purchasing policy. Senators have also proposed to simplify the control regime, through a better articulation between the two licensing regimes that will apply tomorrow to vital electronic communications operators. This simplification must be welcomed, provided, of course, that security is guaranteed and that the speed of deployment is not hindered. The only point of real disagreement between the two chambers was the principle of enhanced proportionality, adopted in public sittings in the Senate. Under this provision, the Prime Minister should, before making his prior approval decision, have assessed the potential impact of this decision on the speed of network deployment, the increase in costs and the access of end-users to services, in order to avoid delays, increases in tariffs or restrictions on user access to networks. However, such drafting would have exposed a great risk of litigation, as it involved putting the issue of tariffs and the pace of network deployment ahead of national defence and security. In view of the urgent need to create a new legal regime to supervise the operation of the networks, senators agreed to revert to the principle of proportionality, preferring a request for a report to the Government. The latter will have to assess the impact of the new authorisation mechanism on all stakeholders, as well as on the deployment of 4G throughout the country. It will also have to present an assessment of the deployments of 5G and technological developments. I welcome, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, this compromise text, which will help to avoid litigation and will have the merit of reassuring the inhabitants of certain territories, who are worried about their digital coverage. The parliamentary shuttle will therefore have resulted in the creation of a new, simple, effective and legally robust tool designed to protect our national interests in the best possible way. The concluding CMP allows us to adopt the bill as soon as possible and, thus, to evolve our legal arsenal, which has so far protected only the confidentiality of communications and the secrecy of correspondence. As we have said throughout the examination of the text, we are on the eve of a major digital and technological revolution. As with every technological advance, possible loopholes may emerge, as new networks will carry increasingly sensitive information: their vulnerabilities could be exploited to jeopardize digital systems and infrastructures, or to steal or spy on large-scale data. We must therefore collectively be prepared to further strengthen our legal arsenal. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to assure you of the support given by the Group of the Democratic Movement and related to a text which aims at the legitimate objective of protecting, ensuring the reliability, security and integrity of electronic communications networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u104	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u105	Three months after we first voted on this text, an agreement was reached with the Senate that allows us to take a first step in securing our facilities in the face of the arrival of 5G. This new technology is a real breaking innovation, the scope of which is very wide. The possible innovations are innumerable, and many of them remain to be imagined. We cannot miss out on this technological revolution, but, like any evolution, it will require adjustments to our processes and new legislation. Three major prerogatives lie with the public authorities: to guarantee national sovereignty, to regulate practices and actors related to 5G, and to prevent attacks on the security of our fellow citizens. Several points seem essential to me. First of all, we must keep in mind the context in which this technology appears: that of a trade war between the United States and China. In May, European states were the subject of an intense campaign of influence on the part of the US State Department, aimed at persuading them of the need to exclude Huawei, a Chinese company, from the development of 5G networks. In particular, the United States blames the company for its proximity to the Chinese government, which is dangerous for their safety and that of European countries. After an overall decision by the European Commission, each Member State will have to take measures to ensure network security. Our interests, as European nations, can be aligned with those of our American partners. Nevertheless, we must remember the past facts from the United States. The revelation, in 2013, of the transmission of users' personal data through the major platforms to the US National Security Agency – NSA – shows us that Europe and its Member States need to increase their attention. More than ever, Europe must affirm its ability to preserve the freedom, privacy and security of its citizens. To this end, a coordinated European response is central, but will it be up to the challenge? Two questions arise: the possibility of a common position on companies at risk and the development of European digital giants. To date, the European Commission has refused a priori a ban on Huawei on European soil. Of course, it is important not to impose an early ban, but the risk must be taken into account. That is why the freedom to adapt legislation entrusted to the Member States will have to be regulated in order not to open a breach. European countries are characterised by the deep interlocking of networks and their cybersecurity. ANSSI spoke in a 2018 note of "independence of our societies" and "shared vulnerability". The clear definition of a common set of good practices and rules at European level is an imperative that we cannot fail to comply with. On the other hand, the European Commission's position must evolve as regards the means given to Member States to act in favour of the development of European digital and telecom champions. In the field of smartphones, operating systems, browsers and search engines, a few giants rule without sharing, and none of them is European. They make huge profits by exploiting and monetizing users' personal data. The emergence of European digital and telecommunications giants is therefore more than necessary to enable Europe to exist in the global game of digital innovation. While we must welcome the consensus we have reached to provide our citizens with the protection they deserve, this is only a first step, and questions remain. In particular, it is essential to ensure optimal networking of the territory through the 5G network, in order to overcome the digital divide. By the end of 2018, only six in ten French citizens had access to 4G, and too often, medium-sized cities and rural areas cannot benefit from digital developments, even though the ability to connect to networks becomes central to economic development. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure that all citizens benefit equally. We support this important text. It is now necessary to ensure the application of the European guidelines on the subject and the development of a genuine digital sovereignty, both French and European, a sine qua non for a calm transition towards the 5G era and the technological developments that will result therefrom. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. The Socialist and Related Group will vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u106	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u107	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-18-E1017.u108	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: New reading of the 2018 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
