ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u1	I wish you, Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, and all of you, ladies and gentlemen. The Speaker of the National Assembly received a letter from Mr.Mauritius Leroy, Member of Parliament for the third constituency of the Loir-et-Cher, informing him that he was resigning his term as a Member of Parliament as of January 9, 2019. Act was taken from his resignation in the Official Journal of 11 January 2019. By communication of 8 January 2019, the Minister of the Interior informed the President that Mr Maurice Leroy was replaced, until the renewal of the National Assembly, by Mr Pascal Brindeau, elected at the same time as him for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u2	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u3	Mr Olivier Marleix, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No 517 concerning the situation of Konecranes in Vernouillet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u4	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of Konecranes in Vernouillet, near Dreux. Konecranes, a manufacturer of electric hoists and lifting tools, is a prosperous Finnish group that makes profits and generates a turnover of 4 billion euros. It announced on November 8, 2018 that the Vernouillet site was not selected for the manufacture of new generation electric hoists. This announcement comes after a competition of the site – by the group – with two other production sites, in Germany and the Czech Republic. The reasons that led Konecranes to rule out Vernouillet are difficult to understand, as is the sincerity of this approach, as much as this competition with the Czech Republic – whose wage costs are much lower – and neighbouring Germany – where the group has a major establishment – seemed to automatically eliminate France. This decision is probably tantamount to condemning the site, while its order book is full for 2019, and directly threatens 120 jobs – up to 300 if we take into account the subcontractors. Konecranes has just commissioned a firm to find a site owner, rather than trying to relocate another activity to the site itself. The uncertainty of this in-between and this unfair way of proceeding is difficult for employees and their families to live. [[Mr Jean-PierreVigierapplaudit]] The interdepartmental delegate for corporate restructuring, Jean-Pierre Floris, whose availability and commitment I would like to acknowledge, came to meet the site's managers. I would like to know what steps the Government intends to take to secure firm commitments to maintain employment. More generally, Mr Secretary of State, I wanted to tell you how shocking I find it to be to see a company relocate its production to Eastern Europe without forgetting to locate its financial holding in the Netherlands... What American GAFAs in Ireland are accused of doing now is that European companies are now doing it commonly: they are looking for the least-so-called tax on one side, the least-so-called social on the other. What action is the Government taking at European level to ensure that the rules of the Union no longer promote such opportunistic behaviour?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u5	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u6	Before I answer Mr Marleix's question, allow me to present my wishes for this new year. Mr Marleix, a number of questions you have asked about the rules of the Union deserve further work to ensure that the opportunistic behaviour you have described – in this case or in another case – can be better combated. This is the meaning of the commitment of the Minister of Economy and Finance, but also of the President of the Republic on the European scene. In particular, you have drawn our attention to the situation of Konecranes de Vernouillet. You recalled, in November 2018, the Finnish group Konecranes announced its decision to entrust the realization of its new range of electric hoists to its factory in Wetter, Germany, to the detriment of the French site in Vernouillet. As you pointed out, the group did not justify to the representatives of the State the economic reasons which led it to make this choice, which obviously weakens the future of the Vernouillet site. However, as a preventive measure at least, following the intervention of the State services and the negotiations that began after the blockage of shipments in early December, several advances can already be noted. Management initially committed, regardless of the remaining production, to maintaining the employment of all employees until 31 December 2019. It is also committed to actively seeking all possible solutions to keep all employees of the site in employment. Those whose employment would have disappeared by the end of 2019 will be granted reclassification leave with full pay until 31 December 2020; This leave will be increased to 16 months for employees over 58 years of age. Dismissed employees will receive an allowance equal to twice the legal or conventional allowance, at the most advantageous for the employee, with a floor of 12 months. As you also pointed out, the interdepartmental delegate for business restructuring visited the site on 18 December. He met with management and employees and was able to talk to them. The State services are fully mobilized to preserve activity and employment on the Vernouillet site, and are of course ready to work with all elected representatives of the territory who wish to do so. To this end, the Konecranes Group has chosen a consulting firm for the search for a buyer, which has already identified a list of 250 prospects. The Commissioner for Restructuring and the Prevention of Business Difficulties works with this firm and ensures the seriousness of the process to verify that it is not a good thing. In order to ensure the transparency of this process, it regularly interacts with trade union organisations as well as with the management of the company; I am convinced that it will be the same with the local elected representatives, so that we can find together the means to maintain production on the Vernouillet site and ensure that the maximum number of jobs are preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u7	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u8	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State, and for what the State's commitment to this issue has been and will continue to be. It is difficult enough for employees to feel that the shareholder does not play a completely transparent game with them and leads them into dilatory procedures whereas the intention seems unfortunately to be the search for a buyer, which leaves me a little sceptical: in general, a company is quite reluctant to find a competitor and to leave him the keys to a site. We need all the pressure and all the clairvoyance of the state, which will be brought, even if I do not hope, or then as late as possible...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u10	... to validate a plan to safeguard employment. In the immediate future, we need the state to compel Konecranes to fulfil its commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u11	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to raise her question, No. 497, concerning the kilometric allowances for homeworkers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u12	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of homeworkers. Many of them – I should say of them, for the majority of them are women – have no choice but to drive to where they have to do their services to the population and go for miles, especially in rural areas. The precariousness of their situation is considerable and their incomes are often very low. Many of them are now among the yellow vests – they could not bear that their budgets, already forced, are even more so because of the increase in fuel. I have met men and women who are ready to crack under the weight of the measures that you are continuing to take to make life harder for the popular and middle classes of our country, for this France that is making daily efforts not to sink and that Mr Macron is having fun humiliating regularly in a repugnant way. Homeworkers, Mr. Secretary of State, face variable, split, uncertain schedules when people cancel or move an appointment at the last moment, on forced part-time, unplanned travel that an emergency requires. I would like to recall the dedication of so many homeworkers who, when you destroyed everything – public services, public transport – are sometimes the only ones, in rural areas, to embody our common ideal of solidarity and fraternity. Their living and working conditions have been undermined by successive governments. Many homeworkers do not manage to extract a SMIC from their yet exhausting work. Over the past 10 years, flat-rate kilometric allowances have not been reassessed. Making the decision to do so would help relieve those homeworkers who are unable to do so. Know that they almost always ride with their personal vehicle to work. It is not uncommon for them to take risks when their daily agendas are too busy. Do you agree, Secretary of State, to allow our fellow citizens, and especially our fellow citizens, who work at home, to get better and to help them live decently? Are you going to increase the flat-rate kilometric allowances?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u13	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u14	As you know, the costs incurred by employees are deductible from their taxable income. As a reminder, several terms and conditions are offered to the employee so that he chooses the most advantageous, when he opts for the regime of the actual costs. The assessment of travel costs may be carried out using the fixed scale fixed by decree depending on the administrative power of the vehicle and the annual distance travelled. Where the employee does not apply the schedule, these travel expenses are deductible for their actual amount. This kilometric scale can also be used as a reference by employers for the allowance to their employees for their professional travel expenses exempt from income tax and social contributions and contributions. Article 10 of the 2019 Initial Finance Law will allow what you are asking for, i.e. the upgrade of the scale in 2019, taking into account, in particular, the type of vehicle motorization so that this upgrade is more important for small-scale engines, i.e. the least polluting vehicles, but also the least expensive ones. This is a measure that responds directly to your concerns. It is also important to remember that in the face of the consequences of rising fuel prices for all employees, in particular the most modest ones, in particular the workers you mention, specific measures, applicable from the revenue of the year 2018, have been adopted within the framework of the Finance Law for 2019. For example, Article 3 of the Finance Act provides that mobility aids paid by local authorities or employment centres, intended to cover the cost of fuel incurred by employees for their journey between home and work, when they are located at a distance of at least 30 kilometres from each other, shall be exempt from income tax and social contributions up to EUR 240 per year. In addition, carpooling is now introduced into the means of transport for journeys between home and work. It may be supported by an employer exempt from social contributions and income tax up to EUR 200 per year. Finally, other measures have been adopted, such as the freezing of the increase in fuel taxes, the extension of the energy cheque scheme to new beneficiaries or, even if this will not apply to all employees, the strengthening of the conversion premium, which will more than double for the most modest households.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u15	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u16	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State, although there are many shortcomings. It is not possible to seriously claim that homeworkers will carpool! It's not serious! As for the freezing of the increase in taxes, it is certainly a good thing not to make the living conditions of these workers even more difficult, but it is now that they need help! Half of home helpers live on less than 900 euros per month. They do eleven-hour days, but only count for six hours worked. So they live in great insecurity, and it is not the answer you just gave that will change their situation. We will continue to fight all the more as the consensus in the National Assembly can be broad – a colleague of the IDU, Mr.Favennec Becot, has asked a written question on this subject. You must be able to live with dignity from your work! These women who work at home – especially women – have a very strong commitment, especially to the most vulnerable populations or the elderly, but this is not recognized, as many of them live below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u17	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to speak on his question No 498 on the consequences of the Alstom-Siemens alliance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u18	Allow me, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, to convey to you and to the staff of the House my best wishes for health, happiness and serenity. Mr Minister of Economy and Finance, at the beginning of 2019 nothing is going on about the merger of Alstom and Siemens. In addition to employees and their trade unions, the European Commission is now questioning the merits of the operation. She presented a list of grievances, identifying no fewer than 14 areas in which there would be risks of monopoly! At the end of December, the UK, Dutch, Belgian and Spanish competition authorities wrote to the European Commissioner responsible for the case to alert her of a "very large overall loss of competition" if the merger took place. For the unions, the cause has been heard since the beginning: this merger, or rather the absorption of Alstom by Siemens, is not a good deal, because it does not obey an industrial project, but simply aims to satisfy the shareholders. I recall that it was planned to "buy" – sorry, to pay to shareholders – 1.8 billion euros to organize this merger. This proposed merger is less and less justified. It symbolizes a retreat rather than a development. The creation of synergies between the two groups, at an estimated cost of 380 million euros, is expected to bring back 470 million euros annually after the four years during which employment would be supposedly preserved – we have seen what was happening at General Electric – savings that would result in the elimination of 4000 to 7000 jobs according to the union projections. The monopoly position of a private group is likely to raise prices and cost the countries, the communities that need trains, metros, trams, because the sole objective is the profitability of shareholders, and it is with public money that we buy these rolling stock. There is now an urgent need to reflect on another project, on cooperation between EU states that would involve European-based railway manufacturers, including Bombardier, and on public funding to build a long-term industrial strategy, serving countries, communities, the needs of the people, but also to meet the climate challenge. Instead of yelling at the wolf fearing the Chinese and the CRRC company, the government would better fight for a European Buy Act that would protect our domestic market! Let us be more ambitious: that is also how we can build a large industrial grouping large enough to approach international contracts. Why not think now about an alternative solution to this harmful merger? This is our wish for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u19	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u20	Mr President, your question is addressed to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Held this morning, he asked me to give you these answers. You drew his attention to the industrial operation of the merger between Alstom and Siemens' mobility division. This operation is of great relevance and can be a model in the formation of a European industrial leader, capable of facing intense competition and keeping himself at the forefront of innovation. Because this operation is as crucial for Siemens as for Alstom, which are of very comparable sizes, Siemens wanted to hold 50% of the capital of the new company but agreed to make very important commitments, requested by the State to preserve the French interests. Thus, for a period of four years, there will be no closure of a site or forced departure; the skills and investments in research and development in France will be maintained; the headquarters of the new company will be located in France and it will be listed on the Paris Stock Exchange. The future entity will thus be able to be a true European industrial champion, with weapons to fight against the Chinese leader CRRC, who has extremely important production capacities. We are very careful that the measures currently being discussed with the European competition authorities do not call into question the economic merits of the merger, but also that they affect only marginally the French sites and employees of the two groups. You have raised a number of questions and proposed a form of alternative solution. We are convinced that the discussions with the competition authorities and the Community authorities will enable them to convince them of the merits of this merger and to exclude de facto the search for alternative solutions. We consider, as I have already said, that the proposed merger is a relevant model for forming this European champion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u21	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u22	I regret that you are not opening up the construction of a project other than that which involves the shareholders of two large groups in a short-term profitability objective. You do not respond to the fears of employees about the job losses associated with the economies that this merger calls for. You say there will be no closure of sites, but you do not commit to the planned job losses. You're talking about the Chinese threat: fear does not avoid danger. There are protective measures to be taken for the European and French markets. What about future calls for tenders, especially for Greater Paris? What guarantees do we have that prices will not rise?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u23	Mr Sylvain Brial has the floor to put his question, No. 518, on primary education in Wallis-et-Futuna.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u24	Primary education in the Wallis and Futuna Islands is entrusted to the administration of Catholic education. The Government rightly affirms a great ambition for primary education. This is particularly legitimate in our territory, which has many problems. The President of the Republic has understood this well, which has concentrated important resources on primary education. Today, the programmes are more demanding, with the mastery of information and communication technologies in education – ICT – or even more work on local cultures. This includes an increase in the level of recruitment of teachers with a baccalaureate plus 5. This level of qualification should allow teachers new career prospects, with access to the grade of teacher in schools or access to new internal competitions in national education. Minister of National Education, primary school teachers on Wallis-et-Futuna have two characteristics: they are recruited to baccalaureate plus 5; they carry out a State mission. Moreover, there is no competition in our territory between the private and the public. Therefore, our teachers cannot have these career prospects. I ask you to make arrangements for teachers at Wallis-et-Futuna primary school who have the appropriate qualifications to take part in the competitions reserved for officials. I would also ask that the applicable remuneration scale be comparable to that of public education, as is the case in Polynesia or New Caledonia. Finally, I hope that the Wallis-et-Futuna territory, because of the local problems and the weak results achieved, can benefit from the status of a reinforced priority education network – REP+.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u25	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u26	Mr President, I would like to apologise to Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister for National Education and Youth, who is being held this morning. He asked me to give you these answers. As you recall, public primary education is granted to Wallis-et-Futuna, to the Catholic mission. To ensure the direction and management of Catholic education in the first degree, the board of directors of the Catholic mission mandates the direction of Catholic education which has the responsibility to implement this concession agreement. This concession has been governed by an agreement since 1969. The Convention for the period 2012-2017 has been tacitly renewed pending its rewriting. This began between the departments of the Ministry of National Education, the vice-rectorate and the Catholic mission; Many of the topics you have discussed will be discussed. The level of the grant for 2017 and 2018 has already been maintained. This decision takes particular account of the specificities of the territory that you recall and attests to the commitment of the State despite the sharp demographic decline in the first degree. Teachers in the first degree in Wallis-et-Futuna are very widely recruited at the baccalaureate level. They therefore do not fulfil the conditions for access to the faculty of the schools. Nevertheless, the principle of a 20-point indexation for the benefit of the masters who have reached the last level of the top class in five years has already been adopted by the convention. It thus brings to 40 index points the revalorisation of career ends, which is significant and compares favourably with the index grid applicable to the bodies of teachers in metropolitan France or to the bodies of neo-Caledonian teachers. Finally, I would like to inform you that a mission launched in October 2018 by the Minister of National Education and Youth is currently working on a better adaptation of educational and educational policies to the specificities of the territories. Your proposal to classify Walllis-et-Futuna territory in REP+ will be considered as part of this mission, which will make its findings in June 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u27	Mr Sylvain Brial has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u28	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer. Of course, we are talking about the future of children, but through them the whole future of the territory is at stake. That is why I hope that we can work with the national education services on an ambitious educational project for Wallis-et-Futuna.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u29	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to put his question, No. 512 concerning the closure of the Copirel plant in Mazeyrat-d'Allier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u30	The Cofel Group, the leader in bedding in France thanks to these three well-known brands, Bultex, Mérinos and Epéda, announced in November 2018 the closure for February 2019 of its Mazeyrat-d'Allier site in Haute-Loire, the Copirel plant. This brutal and inadmissible decision results in the dismissal of 82 employees and leads as many families to total disarray. The socio-economic consequences are also disastrous for the municipalities of Langeadois and Brivadois, as well as for all the economic partners who benefited from the operation of this plant. Following the announcement of the closure, a monitoring committee was set up, bringing together the State departments, the elected representatives and the staff representatives of the factory, in order to start negotiations with the Cofel Group as soon as possible, in the interest of the employees and with the aim of actively seeking a representative. To date, two months after the beginning of the negotiations, the Cofel Group has not responded to the follow-up committee's requests, in particular the negotiation of the job security plan, the maintenance of foam purchases from the local supplier, the search for a buyer, the transmission of the impact assessment following the closure of the plant. I would therefore ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to indicate what steps you urgently intend to take in order to obtain from the Cofel Group the necessary commitments enabling employees, elected representatives and public authorities to obtain precise answers and firm commitments. Mr. Secretary of State, there's an emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u31	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u32	Mr President, you are asking me about the situation at the Cofel Copirel plant in Mazeyrat-d'Allier. The Cofel Group's project consists of a transfer of activity from the Mazeyrat-d'Allier site to other establishments following a decision to save fixed costs, according to the information provided by the group. While all the other production sites of the group belong to it, the buildings used in Mazeyrat are rented to Recticel, itself a subcontractor of Copirel. The Cofel Group was received by the Department of Labour on 21 November and 18 December 2018. A first follow-up committee was held on November 30, 2018, co-chaired by the Deputy Prefect, Ms.Véronique Martin Saint-Léon, and yourself, as a Member of Parliament for the riding. The last committee, dated 14 December 2018, was held in a harmful climate, in the presence of people who were not invited; The leaders had to be accompanied by the gendarmerie. This attitude is not responsible and can significantly damage, by the poor image of the site it can give, the search for an ongoing buyer. In any event, the State services are fully mobilized to save this industrial site and the jobs associated with it. We continue to work to get specific commitments from the group, but also to think about conversion projects. To this end, the Commissioner for Restructuring and the Prevention of Business Difficulties is very actively involved in the search for a successor alongside the firm that has been mandated to do so. I know that you, too, contribute in the most direct way possible. The services of the DIRECCTE are also mobilised to follow up the procedure of the employment protection plan. They will also pay close attention to the accompanying measures of the PSE which will be adopted in the event that no recovery project can prosper. In addition, Pôle Emploi's teams will work with Arthur Hunt to promote the reclassification of laid-off employees. Every effort will be made to find a solution to preserve activity and employment. The services of the Ministry of Economy and Finance are fully mobilized, alongside the State, elected officials and economic actors. It is, of course, up to the actors of the territory, as you have shown and as the local elected representatives have shown, to exercise a spirit of responsibility in order to put all the chances on our side, to respond to this urgency and to ensure a future for this site.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u33	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u34	The Cofel Group must respond very quickly to our demands and provide solutions. Employees suffer, as do the local population, elected officials and the entire territory. We need you, Secretary of State, because there is an urgent need to act to provide effective solutions to the employees of this plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u35	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to raise her question, No. 500, concerning the compensation of traders who are victims of the "anti-specism" movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u36	Minister for Agriculture and Food, last September, several traders in Saint-Arnoult-en-Yvelines suffered severe deterioration of their establishments as a result of actions carried out by the "anti-specism" movement. The fight for animal welfare is legitimate. I am committed to animal suffering myself. We have also taken several steps following the passage of the EGALIM Act. From now on, animal protection associations can take civil action, the crime of ill-treatment extends to slaughter and transport establishments, penalties for animal abuse are doubled, the production of new batteries for the rearing of laying hens in cages is prohibited. These are first steps forward and I remain convinced that we need to go further. I am thinking in particular of the video or the grinding of chicks. However, the methods used by anti-specist radical groups are unacceptable and agribashing is a scourge. Violent and illegal actions have continued to increase in recent months, to such an extent that the butcher-carcutiers asked the Minister of the Interior for police protection last June, and that the following month, the French confederation of butcher-carcuterie and caterers estimated them to be fifty in the year 2018. This damage is not without consequences for traders. In addition to the undeniable psychological aspect, the economic aspect is not negligible, due to the damage and loss of customers. Moreover, traders fear a significant increase in their insurance by the repetition of this type of behaviour. That is why I would like to know how the targeted traders will be accompanied by the public authorities in terms of their daily protection, as well as their contractual relations with their insurances. What is the Government's concrete plan to protect our traders from unfair economic consequences?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u37	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u38	Thank you for your question, dear Aurore Bergé, which will allow me to clarify several elements. First of all, I would like to join in your concern and support the butchers and charcutiers who have been cowardly assaulted. These events are intolerable in a rule of law. You mentioned the case of Saint-Arnoult-en-Yvelines, but many other cities are concerned. You spoke of fifty violent actions, which is unacceptable. The Government shares your concern and supports your support. We have the right in France to consume what we want. Everyone is free to do what he wants. No group, whatever it may be, must impose on another, or even on the entire population, what it must do. Violence has been committed in butchery, which is unacceptable. The EGALIM law, which you rightly recalled, allows progress. Like you, Member of Parliament, I am determined to go further. We still need to take steps on several issues in order to move forward. Last week I met the "welfarist" associations of our country. They condemn these criminal acts, both attacks on butchers and intrusions into agricultural farms, in slaughterhouses, as was the case in Ain, where a slaughterhouse was set on fire. This is unacceptable. As for your specific question, the Government does not have a currency answer ringing and stumbling, but the butchers and charcutiers must ensure that they do not make a complaint against acts of vandalism. The Government was responsive, since the Ministry of the Interior immediately placed police officers at these stores to protect them. However, it is not possible that in our country, in 2020, butchers are being monitored by police officers! The Government is determined to take all measures to preserve our freedom of food, within the framework of the general states of food or the EGALIM law. We will have to go even further, because no one in our country should impose on anyone a way of being or of living. It is our freedom, our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u39	Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor to raise her question, No 502, on the obligation to land fishing vessels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u40	Minister, at the arrival of the President of the Republic in June 2018 at the port of Guilvinec, a black book of the landing obligation was given to him by the departmental committee of fisheries and marine herds of Finistère. The 2013 reform of the Common Fisheries Policy, the CFP, which lays down the rules for allocating fishing rights for each Member State, introduces the landing obligation, equivalent to the ban on discarding certain species at sea, in order to improve the management of fish stocks. Article 15 of the CFP Regulation states that "all catches of species subject to catch limits during fishing activities in European Union waters shall be brought back and kept on board fishing vessels and recorded, landed and charged against quotas". The implementation of the landing obligation was to take place gradually before finally entering into force on 1 January 2019. Minister, the implementation of this zero discard policy is a concern for fishing professionals, particularly in my constituency of Finistère. The landing obligation is based on the retention on board of unwanted catches, which results in a substantial increase in the volume of catches to be taken back to land. In order to meet this obligation, vessels will either have to increase their storage capacity or agree to lower the market value of catches unloaded in ports, which are partly composed of juvenile or unwanted species. The possibility of a "choke effect" is not to be excluded. This term is used to describe situations resulting from the landing obligation in fishing areas where there are several species with different quotas and for which selective capture is not possible with current fishing tools. As such, fishermen are concerned that vessels may be forced to stay at docks in order not to risk catching species for which there is no or no quota, even though they still have fishing rights for other species. Professionals will therefore have to cope with a decline in the profitability of their businesses, combined with an increase in sorting time and a deterioration in safety on board. Socio-economic impacts could be severe for the entire sector. Minister, what measures does the Government intend to take to support fishing professionals in the implementation of the landing obligation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u41	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u42	Your question is very important, Member. France opposed this landing obligation, but it was not followed by the majority of the other EU states, which accepted it. The subject is real, as the state of the stocks of these fishermen could be called into question. At the last Council of Fisheries Ministers, which was particularly long at the end of December, we discussed this subject. The risk of a "choke effect" is undeniable. However, I would like to be reassuring because we are taking all the necessary transitional measures to limit the consequences for our fishermen. Thus, the landing obligation or "zero discard policy" will not apply to all catches, but only to species subject to quotas and, in the Mediterranean, to those subject to minimum catch sizes. The aim is to encourage better selectivity in order to avoid, precisely, these unwanted catches. Without denying this objective, I worked, particularly at the last Council of Ministers in Brussels in December, to find solutions to minimize the negative impact on ship activity. I think we're there. This long-term work makes it possible to relax the strict landing obligation for all catches on professionals: improvement of quota trading mechanisms between Member States, de minimis exemption and exemptions for high survival rates allowing the discarding of certain species in identified fisheries, interzonal flexibilities, inter-species flexibilities. These measures are in the right direction and respond to the demands of French fishermen. Beyond these solutions and adjustments, requests for changes in European regulations could only be made by France if the demonstration of a satisfactory involvement of French armaments can be made. It is therefore essential to systematically declare discards at their true height, in order to be able to benefit from the maintenance of the exemptions in force and their inclusion in the setting of future TAC levels – total allowable catches – expressed as total catches. The departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are fully mobilised to support the implementation of the landing obligation on the coast. In this respect, I have requested that a practical guide be widely disseminated to our professionals in order to clarify, in the light of the flexibilities and adjustments already foreseen, the obligations arising from the generalisation of the landing obligation. This support is obviously done in close connection with professional organisations. Your question was very important, Member. I will personally monitor the implementation of these measures, as the landing obligation could be problematic. We're making progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u43	Mr Stéphane Buchou, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, raised his question, No. 507, on the status of saliculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u44	Minister, I am asking you today about the status of salt production. I would like to associate my colleague Sandrine Josso, Member of Parliament for Loire-Atlantique, with my question, because in both of our ridings, this is an extremely important issue. As you know, since the 1988 drafting of article L.311-1 of the Rural and Maritime Code, saliculture has been excluded from the scope of activities deemed to be agricultural. However, many areas of this profession bring us back to agricultural status, whether in matters relating to land, farms, production or those related to professional and social status. On the other hand, salt production from salt marshes, as is the case in my constituency, particularly on the island of Noirmoutier, is correlated with the cycle of nature, especially the Sun and the Wind. This production, collected in a artisanal way, represents an important economic weight in our national territory: 550 producers make 40 million euros of turnover. Today, it is only through derogatory measures that farmers can benefit from schemes linked to agricultural status. This situation is particularly uncomfortable, and at least uncertain, for professionals who are the guarantors of our heritage, the preservation of natural spaces and the magnificent landscapes of salt marshes. It poses difficulties in a number of areas that you know well: the securing of the saliculture activity within agricultural cooperatives and the recognition of producers' organisations. An amendment to Article L.311-1 of the Rural and Maritime Code would secure the de facto situation of cooperatives and companies of agricultural form engaged in a salicultural activity. It would ensure the sustainability of ancestral know-how, provide better operating conditions within the industry and secure a profession whose mission is far beyond manual salt harvesting. In fact, salaried or salaried farmers are essential actors from a tourist point of view, and they participate very actively in the attractiveness of the territories concerned. Their farms in the form of carnations are particularly popular and visited in our tourist departments, which shows how much the population is attached to them. Minister, we had alerted your predecessor Stéphane Travert on the matter and he had given us his consent. Unfortunately, this has not been possible. Today, we must act quickly. Are you like him in favour of this change, so that we can quickly correct this "anomaly" and thus allow the actors in this sector, who participate strongly in the attractiveness of our rural life, to be secured, supported and accompanied in a status that really corresponds to the profession they are exercising?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u45	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u46	Thank you for your question, Mr. Member, which covers several subjects. The attractiveness of our territories and rural areas is essential, as is evident from the current debate. Rural life suffers, and there is no need to be handicapped by measures that would degrade this attractiveness. The agricultural status of this sector and these producer organisations is equally important. I would like to answer you very clearly and very precisely. You regret that the activity of saliculture is not considered to be an agricultural activity under Article L.311-1 of the Rural Code and the Marine Fisheries Code. The fact that farmers do not have the status of farmers can pose problems in a number of areas, such as securing the activity of farmers in cooperatives or recognition as producers' organisations. From a social point of view, however, the administrative practice treats farmers as farmers, since they are affiliated with the Mutuality of Agriculture, the MSA, and from an economic point of view, the current non-recognition of farmers as farmers has no impact: salt, which is not listed in Annex I to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, does not have access to European aid. During the consideration of the draft law on the balance of trade relations in the agricultural sector and healthy and sustainable food, known as the EGALIM Act, some amendments proposing amendments to section L.311-1 were tabled, but were rejected as they were considered horsemen or as contrary to section 40. I understand, however, that your group would not object to the tabling of a bill on this subject, and I can tell you very formally that the Government will support you. The departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will be ready to work with you to help you, within this framework, to sustain ancestral know-how and ensure the economic development of saliculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u47	Mr Stéphane Buchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u48	Thank you, Minister. I have taken note of the Government's support for changing the status of farmers and its willingness to put an end to an anomaly that has persisted since 1988. I believe that your answer will warm up many hearts on the coast of the Vendee and Liguria, on the side of Noirmoutier and Guerande.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u49	I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to speak on his question No 527 on methods of slaughtering and transparency for consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u50	Various associations, including the L214 association, have exposed to the public the scandalous practices that some slaughterhouses are engaging in in our country, practices that deconstruct a profession that makes a great deal of effort. The public has rightly been moved by this contempt for animal suffering, to the point that some movements have taken the pretext of these barbaric acts to promote meat-free food. This way of responding to an excess by another excess may destabilize our entire agricultural sector. Since 1964, a decree has made it mandatory to stun animals before they are killed. This text has been incorporated into several European directives, and European Council Regulation No 1099/2009 has reaffirmed this requirement of stunning. However, it was agreed that derogations could be granted for slaughter methods prescribed by religious rites. In France, this regime applies in particular to Jewish and Muslim rites. However, according to a survey by the Abattoir Aid Work, OABA, more than half of the establishments would carry out slaughter without dizziness. The interdepartmental chamber of agriculture of Île-de-France estimates that the number of animals slaughtered according to a religious ritual would far exceed the needs of the religious minorities concerned. This is due to the fact that parts not consumed by believers are sold in the conventional trading system for economic reasons. If we can accept, in the name of the constitutional principle of freedom of conscience and religion, that I do not call into question, that believers must be guaranteed the possibility of consuming meat from ritual methods of slaughter, we must also, by virtue of the same principle, guarantee non-believers, or believers of other faiths, that they do not consume this type of meat without their knowledge. Pending the dialogue which the President of the Republic has undertaken to establish with representatives of Jewish and Muslim cults – which I have personally met – in order to gradually put an end to slaughter without dizziness as requested by animal welfare associations, it would be necessary to move quickly to a transitional stage which would consist of making mandatory the labelling of slaughter methods for slaughter animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u51	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u52	The sheep and beef sector is likely to suffer from consumer anger, which would undermine our entire agricultural model. Consumers must be transparently informed of the nature of the product they consume and have the freedom to choose according to their beliefs and beliefs. I would like to know the position of the Government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u53	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u54	Your question refers first to the freedom of choice of consumers. As I said earlier, no one can impose on a French citizen what he must eat: those who want to eat meat must be able to eat meat and those who do not want to eat it must be able to not eat it. Like you, I recently met the OABA. The Government supports the mandatory labelling of slaughter animals. This has not been accepted at this stage and the Government regrets this, as it considers it important to ensure greater traceability for consumers. Acts of cruelty are another problem. They must be prosecuted. We closed the Boischaut slaughterhouse in Indre in November because it did not meet the standards, and I will decide without shaking further closures if they are necessary. Intrusions into slaughterhouses must also be condemned. Measures have already been taken in the law to balance trade relations in the agricultural sector and healthy and sustainable food, known as the EGALIM Act, and may need to be taken further. Slaughter without dizziness is a matter of freedom of worship. You met, like me, representatives of Jewish and Muslim cults. We need to look closely and move forward. Let's call a cat a cat: we know very well that for economic reasons, parts of slaughter animals slaughtered ritually are sold in the conventional circuit. We have not yet had an authorisation to make the labelling of the slaughter method mandatory. We continue to work in this direction. In short, there are three aspects in your question: acts of vandalism, which must be combated and denounced; the choice of French and French people to eat what they want as they want, including in the ritual setting; and finally labelling. I will continue the work on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u55	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u56	I am pleased with your answer, Minister. I have one question, however, because the European Commission is hostile to derogations – it was France that had obtained them. I do not question these derogations, but I believe that labelling would be a good way to reconcile meat consumers with the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u57	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor to put his question, No 505, on the French rural agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u58	Madam Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, I would like to ask you a question about a subject that raises many expectations in our rural territories. It's not new, they feel abandoned. The dialogue between the office of rural mayors and the Government is welcomed by all rural mayors, who welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has reaffirmed the place and role of the commune. They stress the Government's commitment not to shut down rural municipalities' access to the future services of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. This new entity, composed of state engineering services, was initially calibrated to serve only the public institutions of intercommunal cooperation, the EPCI. By being open to municipalities, it will be able to help them in their development. The president of the association of rural mayors of Pas-de-Calais informed me of the importance of making this agency an operational tool, in the form of a window open to the municipalities. The Association des maires rurales de France asks the Government to support the European rural agenda, i.e. to rely on the ruralness of our country to develop it. She welcomes the Government's commitment to work on a French rural agenda, which has been entrusted to you, Madam Minister. In order to maintain close dialogue with the rural mayors of my constituency, I would like to know whether it is possible to obtain from you concrete elements on the implementation of this agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u59	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u60	Mr President, the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories is primarily intended for the municipalities and territories which will have a project. I am talking about "territories" in the broad sense, because there is no limitation in the local and regional authorities concerned. You may know that it was the president of the Association of Mayors of France who asked for such an agency to be set up. In each department, it is the prefect who will serve as a gateway to the services of this agency, at the request of the local elected representatives. The European Rural Agenda provides for a rural agenda to be drawn up in each of the 28 Member States, and the Government intends to work towards the establishment of a national rural agenda in a co-construction approach. We will build on the proposals made by the territories and their inhabitants, particularly in the context of the great national debate that will be opened. We have also begun consultations with elected associations, in particular the Association of Rural Mayors of France. We will have to work out this rural agenda together.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u61	The next speaker is Mr Charles de la Verpillière, to put his question, No 513, on the pricing of the final connection on public initiative networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u62	Madam Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, my question, quite technical, I agree, concerns the rate of connection of subscribers on public fibre optic networks known as public initiative networks or FIRs. These networks are built either by the delegates or, in rare cases, by the territorial community which took the initiative. This is particularly the case of the Ain network, which was built and operated by the inter-municipal energy and e-communication union of the Ain, the SIEA. It already serves 230 communes. With 115240 eligible housing and buildings and 37820 subscribers, it is one of the most developed in France. On these public networks, the final connection of subscribers, from the point of connection in the street to the terminal outlet in the housing, is carried out by the operator of the network, who rebills it to the internet service provider. However, national access providers demand very low connection rates, while the actual cost advanced by the public operator of the network is double or even triple, in some rural mountain areas or border areas such as the Gex country in Ain. In order to attract access providers and make their networks profitable, IPRs are therefore required to compensate for the difference with public money. Otherwise, negotiations do not succeed and it is the progress of the France Très Haut Débit plan that is delayed. It is therefore urgent to achieve fair and indisputable pricing, reflecting the real costs of connection in sparsely populated areas, and it is up to the State to take responsibility for this. The Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes – ARCEP – had planned to launch a consultation on this subject in 2018. Unfortunately, it was postponed to 2019. Hence my question, minister: what can you do to find a definitive solution to this problem quickly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u63	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u64	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u65	Digital land use planning, as we all know, is a fundamental issue of balance between all territories. The objectives set by the President of the Republic are clear: to ensure access to good broadband by 2020 and to very high broadband by 2022. In rural areas, it is, as you have pointed out, the local authorities that carry public initiative network projects – the famous RIPs – with the aim of bringing the very high speed through the deployment of fiber optics to the villages and to the subscribers. They benefit from state support in their projects, which subsidizes them to the tune of €3.3 billion. Congratulations, moreover, on what you are doing in the Ain, since, as you have recalled, you are very early in this field. You are asking me about the pricing conditions under which these networks will be marketed to Internet service providers. It's a very technical subject. The applicable law resulting from the law of 6 August 2015 on economic growth, activity and equal opportunities provides for ARCEP to adopt guidelines on tariff conditions for access to FIRs. These guidelines, adopted at the end of 2015, must in particular ensure that the tariff conditions of the FIRs "take into account the provision of public aid in order to reproduce the economic conditions for access to comparable electronic communications infrastructures and networks established in other areas of the territory in the absence of such aid. They can be updated as needed. In this context, ARCEP examined the wholesale rate of the final connection. It has been established that the latter could be set, in a derogatory and transitional manner, at EUR 250 instead of an average rate of EUR 500 in force in the densest areas of the territory. This derogation was introduced in order to take account of the provisions of the France Plan's specifications. Very high speed, which provides for the possibility of subsidising final connections in the FIRs for a period of five years in order to promote their commercialization. ARCEP is carrying out work on the final connection aimed at: to specify the costs. In accordance with the law and should ARCEP consider it appropriate, this work may lead to updates to the guidelines and pricing of the FIRs. The Government therefore intends to rely fully on the future results of the regulator's work, in order to answer your question more precisely. I am aware that this response is still insufficient, since this work is under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u66	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u67	Thank you for your response, minister, but see that there is an urgent need: the guidelines set by ARCEP in 2015 no longer correspond, or do not correspond, to the reality of connection costs. A solution that facilitates marketing on public initiative networks must be found very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u68	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u69	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor to put her question, No. 501, on drought in the Doubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u70	My question is for the Minister of the Interior. Between July and December 2018, the Doubs department experienced the biggest drought ever recorded in its history. At the beginning of September, the Doubs prefecture triggered the procedures required by the drought crisis level for the watersheds of Allan and Haute Chaîne du Doubs; In October, this alert was extended to the basin of the middle valleys of the Doubs and Ognon. A month later, the whole department was concerned with this phenomenon of unprecedented gravity and duration, resulting from the combination of the driest year since 1949 and the warmest since 2003. This drought has had a very significant impact on ecosystems and the local economic and agricultural fabric. It also had a direct impact on people's access to water, since three quarters of Franche-Comté were affected by restrictions on drinking water consumption. Dozens of disasters have been recorded in individuals, mainly soil collapses and cracks in walls. These individuals are waiting to be able to provide solutions to these degradations, but they are facing the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disasters under the drought, which cannot be initiated without the annual report of Météo France on the drought, which is due to expire, and which is due to be released next May. Applications for the classification of municipalities in natural disaster for a year n can therefore only be processed in year n+1, i.e. in this case in May 2019. The compensation procedure, which begins with the visit of an expert, can only be initiated from the date of classification, and the consequences can be severe, since it also means that the work of securing houses cannot be carried out in the short term. My question therefore relates, Madam Minister, to possible solutions to speed up these procedures. Would it be possible, for example, to rely on a precise local situation report from Météo France at the end of the drought event?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u71	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u72	I apologize to the Minister of the Interior, who asked me to answer your question. An episode of drought and soil rehydration affected metropolitan territory in the second half of 2018, particularly in the north-eastern part of the country. In order to decide on the recognition of a municipality in a state of natural disaster, the administrative authority is obliged to decide on the abnormal intensity of the natural agent causing the damage, not on the extent of the damage. For drought hazard, two cumulative criteria are used to characterize its intensity. The first is a geotechnical condition: a base ground of constructions made of clay sensitive to the phenomena of withdrawal or swelling; The second is a weather condition: a dry soil of abnormal intensity. I understand the concern of the victims about a lengthy review of their application. But this delay is incompressible, since the analysis of this meteorological criterion of a drought is carried out, every year and for the whole territory, on the basis of a report from Météo France, as you said, for the whole of the last year. Municipal applications can therefore only be examined in year n+1, once all the weather data of the year actually collected. The preparation of this report requires several months of work. Thus, the report for the year 2018 will be completed in the first quarter of 2019. To the extent that hundreds of municipalities have already applied for recognition, it is necessary to assess all the dossiers with regard to consolidated national technical data, without risking unfair treatment between territories. However, I would like to inform you that Météo France and the various government departments concerned have been made aware of the need to deal with requests for the 2018 drought-rehydration episode within a reasonable time. The objective is to review all applications received by the end of the first half of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u73	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u74	I fully understand your answer, as well as the requirements for the classification of a municipality. It seemed to me, however, that in the Doubs the weather condition was obviously fulfilled, since the Doubs River itself disappeared, particularly in the Haut-Doubs, and that it was therefore possible to speed up the procedure. I understand in any case the effort made by Météo France to try to proceed with the classification before the end of the first semester.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u75	The next speaker is Mr Rémi Delatte, to put his question, No 514, on compensation for the consequences of drought.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u76	My question is for the Minister of the Interior. You have just said, Madam Minister: drought, whether in its last episode of 2018 or in previous years, has had a significant impact on constructions, particularly on clay soils that are experiencing a major shrinking-swelling phenomenon. This phenomenon weakens the structure of the buildings: there are cracks in the slabs and walls. Sometimes the damage is much greater. For example, many families in my riding, in Côte d'Or, are threatened with collapse. They must now consider the pure and simple demolition and reconstruction of the building. Everyone of course guesses the financial consequences of this, which combine with the annuities of the loans contracted for the acquisition of the property. I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take in these particular cases, which are particularly serious. Irrespective of the time limits that you have just recalled, which are far too long, and the criteria for declaring the state of natural disaster, whose procedures certainly remain to be revised, what are you contemplating in order to guarantee the compensation of owners when the possible non-recognition of the state of natural disaster and, of course, the termination of the ten-year guarantee are combined?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u77	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u78	I will not repeat what I have already said to your colleague, but his speech and yours, which I could supplement with mine, make it appear – and that allows me to answer him about the situation in the Doubs...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u79	She's gone...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u80	...but also of the Côte-d'Or and Loir-et-Cher, where I also know this same phenomenon – that many departments have been affected. This is one of the consequences of climate disruption. Steps have been taken to try to speed up the procedures, which are indeed very lengthy for the persons concerned. I would like to recall that the deployment of the iCatNat computer application, which you surely know, introduced in early 2018, allows the filing and dematerialised transmission of all the 2018 communal applications identified today in a more systematic and faster way. Weather France and the State services have obviously been made aware of the need to deal with these requests within a reasonable time. However, the use of meteorological data could only begin once the year 2018 had passed. The 2018 report will thus be completed in the first half of 2019. The criteria implemented by the administrative authority will be revised in 2019. This revision pursues several objectives, including taking account of the improvement of scientific knowledge and the desire to make more readable the criteria applied for municipal officials and victims. Thus, an effort will be made to present these criteria. All these measures should enable the State authorities to investigate all municipal applications received more quickly. Finally, the compensation process falls within the scope of the guarantees provided for in the event of a natural disaster, as well as the ten-year guarantees of the manufacturers subscribed to the insurance companies. The use of an aid mechanism cannot be implemented prior to the review of traditional ex gratia or litigious review and appeal procedures, within the prescribed time frame. I wanted to clarify all of this, but to have gone through the Ministry of the Interior before I took up my current duties, I know all the efforts that his services have made to speed up the processing of cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u81	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u82	It is important to take account of the need to speed up and simplify the classification procedure. On the other hand, you have not fully answered the second part of the question: if by chance the municipality is not classified as a natural disaster zone, and if the ten-year guarantee is extinguished, we find ourselves in front of a real unknown. You have alluded to a remedy, but we must be able to help those in this situation. For some of them, it is truly catastrophic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u83	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor to put his question, No. 525, on security in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u84	My question is for the Minister of the Interior. On 9 November 2018, the Conseil d'État condemned the city of Paris and the state for "deficiency" in terms of health and safety in the Château-Rouge district. The Council of State has given good reason to the people who have been mobilizing for years to improve their quality of life. The credit goes to the association La Vie Dejean, which brought the action. These Parisians legitimately have the right to the same tranquillity, to the same cleanliness of the streets and to the same commercial diversity as the rest of the capital. The strengthening of the police prefecture's action since 2017 has led to an improvement in the situation, thanks to an increase in arrests and seizures of goods. I am also pleased that the daily security police have been experimenting from this year on. However, in order to provide a lasting response, we must draw all the conclusions of this unprecedented decision condemning the State and the city and which can make jurisprudence. Paris can no longer remain locked in the carcan of the decree of the 12 Messidor year VIII. It is now essential to carry out structural reform of the security organisation in the capital, including the creation of a municipal police force. It is in the interest of the city of Paris to fully assume its responsibilities, particularly with regard to the illegal occupation of the public domain and the fight against incivilities. It is also the interest of the State, which will be able to focus more effectively on its national police missions, including the upsurge of mafia channels. It is especially in the interest of the Parisians to enjoy a service of peace and security, as in all the other major cities of France and Europe. I am delighted that the idea of a municipal police force, which I have been defending since 2013, is making its way. Elected representatives of different sensitivities are now in favour, demonstrating that this subject of general interest goes beyond political labels. The mayor of Paris herself, who had always opposed this proposal, said that she no longer made it a taboo and seemed to resolve to create a municipal police force. It is now time to move forward constructively. More than ever before, it has become essential to put our fellow citizens in a position to deal democratically with this issue which concerns them directly. That is why I proposed to the Mayor of Paris to submit this debate, which could usefully be organised in the first half of 2019. Madam Minister, this advance for the daily lives of Parisians cannot be achieved without a legislative evolution and a work in good intelligence with the Ministry of the Interior and the police prefecture. Is the Government ready to enter into a dialogue with the city of Paris on the modernization of security in our capital? Is he ready to create the conditions for a municipal police force in Paris?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u85	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u86	Mr President, I would like to give you the answer from the Minister of the Interior. You know that the police commissioner in Paris has general competence in police matters. It is responsible for security, public order and civil security. The mayor of Paris has attribution police powers, which have expanded over time, until the law of 28 February 2017 relating to the status of Paris. Thus, the public health police and the police of the conservation of the communal public domain fall within the competence of the mayor of Paris, who also exercises the general competence in matters of traffic and parking. This division ensures the legal decision-making unit and operational coherence in security management. It therefore does not seem desirable to call it into question. In addition, the Mayor of Paris now has a large number of supervisory officers, who enjoy a set of judicial prerogatives. They may, for example, apply the police orders made by the mayor of Paris, as well as certain orders made by the police commissioner, such as those prohibiting the consumption and taking away of alcohol on the public highway. They may also intervene to verbalize the annoying parking of vendors on the saviour or to detect violations of public safety, and make available to the police in the fight against narcotics the alleged perpetrators of such offences. I would like to assure you that the dialogue between the police prefecture and the city of Paris on security issues is constant. The coordination arrangements were also reviewed in the above-mentioned Act. The principle of coordinated operations is thus provided for. This coordination must be deepened, since the powers of the prefect of police do not prevent a close complementarity between the action of the State and that of the city of Paris. I have answered you, honourable Member, with the words of the Minister of the Interior and the data he has given me. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u87	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to put her question, No. 510, on the medical and social offer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u88	Madam Minister, my question to Mrs Cluzel, Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, concerns persons with disabilities and the case of the territory in which I am elected, the Meuse. We know our majority and the Government are particularly committed to improving the lives of persons with disabilities. In November 2018, in the Meuse, Ms Cluzel visited the National Congress of the association We too, with ADAPEI 55 – the Departmental Association of Parents and Friends of Persons with Mental Disabilities – to defend and publicize our actions in favour of persons with disabilities, particularly in favour of their right to vote. You will obviously find us alongside the Government to also support, with strength and vigilance, greatly improved access to complementary health care with the merger of the ACS – aid for the payment of a supplementary health care – and the CMU-C – supplementary universal health insurance – or the upgrading in November 2019 of the adult disability allowance, which will be increased to 900 euros per month. I am asking you about a more specific problem, namely the effective deployment of our solidarity measures for people with disabilities throughout the country and, more specifically, in our border department in Lorraine. The lack of care facilities for persons with disabilities is a reality faced by these persons and their families. The proximity of Belgium and its significant supply in this area make it even more complex to develop our offer in the Meuse. I would like to be informed of the investment projections in this area, in France and Meuse, over the next three years, with a view to providing the persons concerned with conditions of reception and quality care, at the closest to the families, allowing optimal social integration, a very important subject in rural areas. I would also like to ask you about the coordination of our efforts with the more structurally endowed border countries, such as Belgium, and about all the accompanying measures to ensure that during the transitional period during which the French offer will catch up, the continuity of care for persons with disabilities is never undermined. Finally, how can our offer strategy in the field of medical and social care be accompanied by coordinated measures to provide, within the framework of these medico-social structures, tools for maintaining the demography of health professionals in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u89	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u90	Madam Member, I read to you the reply of the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities: "The reception in Belgium of persons with disabilities is an old phenomenon, which can respond to personal motivations in a freely chosen life course, linked to the proximity of these establishments for cross-border residents. This is particularly the case for people from the Far East, the third region of origin of some 7,500 children and adults accompanied by a Walloon establishment. However, the reception in Belgium also too often reflects the lack of accompaniment solutions adapted to the needs and expectations of people with disabilities in certain territories. It is therefore essential to ensure the best possible care for those welcomed in Belgium and to avoid forced departures. To ensure quality support in Belgium, a framework agreement was signed in December 2011 between France and Wallonia. Entered into force in March 2014, it enables better knowledge of situations and supervision of reception facilities involving the French authorities according to the same criteria as the French regulations. In March 2018, in Louvain-la-Neuve, I personally wanted to chair the third meeting of the Joint Commission that oversees this agreement. We were able to verify its proper functioning, notably in the conduct of joint inspections, the number of which increased by 80% between 2015 and 2017. My priority is, moreover, to avoid forced departures and to organise the return in the best conditions of those who have not chosen Belgium. Since taking office, I have doubled and then tripled, in the framework of the Social Security Financing Act for 2019, the amount of money put in place to prevent such departures: it now stands at 45 million euros. These funds, distributed among the regions most concerned, are intended to finance three types of proximity solutions in the national territory: direct interventions by professionals specialised in the home, like the centres of competence and outsourced services; reinforcements of personnel in medical and social institutions in the vicinity of accompanied persons or their families; creation of new solutions in medical and social institutions and services. I have asked the RHAs – regional health agencies – to take specific account of the people involved in their new regional health projects – PRS – in order to increase the number of accompanying solutions, by continuing to reduce queues and delays, by putting an end to inadequate accompaniments, and by addressing the complex cases that RHAs now identify with greater precision. The Greater East Region PRS takes up this inclusive goal. In order to go faster and further, I have finally hoped that the issue of disabled people hosted in Belgium will be one of the national projects of the great national conference on disability "All concerned, all mobilized", launched on 3 December last. We will report, in a closing event in June, under the auspices of the President of the Republic, on the work entrusted to the ARS of the Hauts-de-France. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u91	The floor is open to Mrs Michèle Victory, to put forward her question, No. 522, on the departmental school of music and dance in the Ardèche.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u92	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the decline in the participation of the State in the operation of the Departmental Conservatory of Music and Dance of the Ardèche through the assistance of the Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs, DRAC. In 2001, this ambitious project brought together 134 communes, 16 branches where the courses take place, 1,488 students and 107 agents in a complex territory that you recently visited, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. We are talking about very rural communes, in the mountains or in the Rhône valley. Despite the success of this project, governance challenges related to the structure and its high cost of operation have emerged. Today, the departmental school is facing a serious financial crisis that threatens its sustainability and, therefore, the ambition of artistic training to meet the challenges of developing our rural and peri-urban territories and of greater equality in access to artistic practices. The State's participation, which amounted to €233,000 in 2011, continued to decline to €100,000. This decrease of 96% in seven years, which was justified by a negative financial year result, was accompanied this year by a near-deletion of aid from the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, which increased from 100,000 euros in 2011 to 2,000 euros in 2018. At the same time, the elected officials ensured that expenditure was reduced, imposing severe measures on employees that crystallized staff dissatisfaction. Only the departmental council of the Ardèche bears witness to its unwavering commitment since 2001 by increasing its grant from 1,293 million euros to 1,4 million euros in 2018. As we know, not all our fellow citizens live in the same house with regard to access to culture. All too often, the social environment of young people has a strong impact on their taste for artistic practices, especially music. However, the Ministry of Culture must play a fundamental role in guaranteeing this fight for equality. Minister, what answer can you give to local elected officials who are mobilizing on a daily basis to support cultural activities in Ardèche? What commitments can you make before us to preserve access to culture in our rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u93	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u94	The process of structuring and developing the teaching of music and dance in Ardèche, of which you have recalled the main objectives and results, is part of a policy of cultural planning of the territory and the democratization of culture led by the department of Ardèche since the beginning of the 2000s and involving very many communes of the territory, in accordance with the division of competences between local authorities in the field of specialized artistic education. This proactive and ambitious approach has been accompanied in an exceptional way by the State through grants paid by the Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes until 2013. The Ardèche was the only department in the region to have no regional or departmental conservatory eligible for operating aid. This policy allowed the departmental school to be classified in the category of intercommunal conservatories for a period of seven years, which expired in 2019. As of 2012, like all conservatories in France, the departmental school has been subject to the gradual withdrawal of State funding, the re-engagement of which has priority since 2016 at the level of regional or departmental institutions and in the form of aid for annual projects. It is in this context that the Ministry of Culture has, since 2017, awarded a grant of 10000 euros to the conservatory Ardèche musique et danse from the departmental school. This aid is intended to be maintained or adapted in the future, in the light of the development of the conservatory's project, of the necessary effort of the municipalities and intercommunalities benefiting from the scheme, and of the consistency of the teachings of the conservatory with those of the artistic educational institutions also existing in Ardèche. The department of Ardèche is a territory in which the Ministry of Culture has maintained, since 2007, a privileged and constant commitment, through the signing of four successive cultural development conventions – the last one covering the period 2017-2019 – and three successive artistic education development conventions – the current one covering the period 2018-2022 – involving the department, the DRAC, the region, the academic direction of the national education services – DASEN – and the family allowance fund – CAF. The State's financial commitment to support cultural development in Ardèche amounted to €3.3 million in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u95	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u96	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, the overall amount of State aid to the department of Ardèche is very important. However, the departmental conservatory of music and dance lacks operating grants and the difficulties it is currently facing will probably force the elected representatives to review their entire copy – many elected officials are also planning to withdraw from this school, which is really in crisis. The Minister of Culture will have to address this issue again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u97	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u98	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u99	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 496, concerning the situation of young Reunions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u100	Happy New Year 2019 to all of you here in this Chamber! Minister for Overseas Affairs, our young Réunions are experiencing an extremely difficult situation and are affected by the inequalities that separate La Réunion from Hexagone. Thus, in 2013, only 36% of 16-29-year-olds were enrolled in Réunion, compared with 42% in Hexagon. One third of our young people leave the school system without a diploma. Today, the situation remains unchanged. How do you intend to deal with this, minister? Another concern is that every year about 2200 students leave La Réunion with the baccalaureate to study in Hexagon. Arrived here, these students are often delivered to themselves: they chain the registration, housing and life galleys 9500 kilometers from any family attachment. The parents are totally distraught. Minister, are you prepared to study the introduction of a one-stop shop so that every young person and every parent is accompanied by A to Z, regardless of the social situation of the family? Whether they have stayed on or returned to their home island, the search for work is more complicated for young Reunions than for young people living in Hexagon. Thus, 30% of our young graduates find employment within one year of completing their studies, while 62% – double – find work within the same time frame in a hexagonal region. This situation has only worsened last year: youth unemployment has increased by 4 percentage points. Minister, our youth is despairing. She no longer believes in a political class that has never managed to solve the problems that rot our society. Since you were a minister, nothing has really changed. Last year, according to INSEE, our territory lost 14,000 aided contracts. Say what you want, think what you want from these jobs, but know that in our home, they provide a true public service mission in different areas and bring our young people a first professional experience. The introduction of selection at the entrance to the university, the increase in registration fees and the deregulation of learning will continue to amplify our island's problems. Minister, when are you going to put in place a real economic policy that creates jobs and, more broadly, a real policy for the integration of our young people? Please, on these matters, answer me honestly and frankly, because the Reunions and Reunions have the feeling that you lied to them during your last visit to our island. Nothing about transparency on assisted jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u101	My dear colleague, if you want the minister to give you an answer, she must have a little time to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u102	I'm finishing, Mr. President. So I was saying, minister, that you made a number of announcements, but we feel that you lied to us. I'll have the opportunity to go back to these lies, but the Reunions and Reunions now want to hear from you about the youth. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u103	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u104	Youth is our priority. As you know, the fight against school drop-out and all inequalities of destiny is at the heart of the President of the Republic's project. If the Government had decided to split certain classes and the Minister of National Education, Jean-Michel Blanquer, had implemented the "Duties made" scheme, it was precisely to provide concrete answers in that regard. But school isn't all. That is why Secretary of State Gabriel Attal called for civic service to be accessible to all young people, especially those furthest from training and employment. This support is a priority. In fact, nearly 2,750 "youth guarantee" places will be offered this year in La Réunion. In addition, we also have a powerful tool: adapted military service, which allows almost 6000 young people to take vocational training, with an exceptional integration rate of 77%. Making information an essential tool for everyone to be free, we have also announced several measures within the framework of the Blue Book. The Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, has committed to finance the skills investment programme in Réunion for a total of 253 million euros. You have to train, but you also have to hire companies – you're right to remind them. My priority is to lead and win the job battle. The reform that I have carried out with the aim of achieving zero burdens for a majority of employees will have to bear fruit. In La Réunion, I made a commitment to create a job counter in the face of business support. We are going to invest almost EUR 1.9 billion a year this year and we need to achieve employment results. I understand and know the difficulties our young people face when they move to metropolitan France. That is why I organise every year, in the continuity of what has been done previously, the Overseas Students' Forum and that is also why the operator of the Overseas Agency for Mobility – LADOM – accompanies 1000 young people meeting in the framework of the mobility passport for vocational training. Here too, we need to rework so that LADOM can do more alongside the local and regional authorities, who also have their programmes. As you know, last week we also signed an agreement with EDF to create a pool of future specialized technicians who will return to their territories. Mr President, the first contract was signed with a Reunion. With regard to assisted contracts, I will be very clear: you know very well that La Réunion is a dynamic territory in this area, with 11,000 assisted contracts that will be available this year, as last year. I had also announced, in Reunion, 1,000 new contracts. It is now done: within four weeks, these 1,000 jobs were allocated through the Employment Centre, as I had also announced. You're finally asking me about the de-enclavement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u105	Minister, we have exceeded the time allocated to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u106	Mr President, I will be with you in three months' time and will report on all my announcements. As you know, I work in transparency and trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u107	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 504, concerning the MEDINF mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u108	My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, concerns the MEDINF 57. The "My Health 2022" plan aims to promote the territorial occupational health communities, in order to reduce the burden of emergencies through daytime care for unscheduled care and non-vital emergencies. This model has existed since 2012 in my constituency, in the form of a liberal immediate and unscheduled care firm, installed in a private clinic called MEDINF 57. The service provided is important, in particular by offering patients an alternative to the emergencies at the regional hospital centre. This offer is complementary to liberal medicine, since it is often towards it that generalists refer patients for immediate or rapid interventions, which they do not take care of. This empirical model has no legal status other than that of a limited-liability liberal corporation. However, the success of the operation of such a structure depends closely on its pharmacy, which determines the type of care that the immediate medical centre can offer its patients. In order to obtain the pharmaceutical specialties necessary for the patient's care mission, the patient must call on the most competitive provider. For such a structure, the cost of purchasing these drugs is acceptable and viable from a central purchasing company of the Centrale de SEO et Consulting Santé – CACIC type. Otherwise, not only is the cost of medicines multiplied by six, but certain specialties essential to its operation, such as paracetamol injectable, are not accessible and the intermediate function between liberal medicine and emergencies is no longer ensured. At present, however, the prerequisite for access to such a facility is to be considered a "health facility". Several exchanges have already taken place with the Regional Health Agency – ARS – Grand Est, which seems to share the relevance and interest of the model. So my question is twofold. First of all, how, in the implementation of the "my health 2022" programme, can we build on the existing one and remove the legal uncertainties regarding the experiments that already exist in some territories by granting them a derogation status that would allow them to have free access to a purchasing centre? Secondly, can the experiment allowed by Article 51 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2018 constitute the relevant and legally stable framework for promoting the emergence and consolidation of the model?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u109	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u110	Madam Member, I know your investment on this subject and the specific issue that it may represent in your territory. As you know, the Regional Health Agency – ARS – Grand Est launched in 2018 a mission on access to emergency and unscheduled care, in a sensitive context, marked by increasing difficulties in emergency services and a strained medical demography. The challenge, of which, with you, we recognize the importance, is therefore to facilitate access to unscheduled care and emergency care, by improving the relevance of care and the articulation of different care structures. The development of unscheduled care centres is identified as a regional priority, and it is in this context that the Regional Health Agency is supported by the MEDINF firm. It is currently located on the premises of a clinic and provides a real service to the population by meeting the needs of its territory in terms of unscheduled care. The firm operates in Sector 2 and the fees charged by practitioners cover medical procedures, nursing procedures, medicines and operating costs. At the request of this firm, access to the clinic's indoor pharmacy – PUI – is now possible and effective since January 2019. The ARS Grand Est wants to label this centre as an unscheduled care centre and lead to a viable economic model as part of a transition to sector 1. The RSA has developed a model for funding unscheduled care centres, which is designed to finance additional costs and, in return, to eliminate fee overruns. However, some points still need to be reinforced – I am thinking in particular of the links with treating doctors, which need to be developed. A reflection with the emergency medical aid service – SAMU – and the emergency in Thionville must be initiated on the transfer circuit of patients, as well as on the widening of the opening hours in the evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u111	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u112	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for these answers. I am pleased that, since January 2019, this centre has been able to access medicines from the pharmacy. I would also like to thank you for your commitment to remove all obstacles that may exist in order to move this issue forward. I will not fail to remain vigilant and to accompany you, if necessary, with regard to these offices, which allow for a real reduction in the number of emergencies and a better care of patients throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u113	Mr José Evrard has the floor to put his question, No. 528, on the implementation of a judicial power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u114	The President of the Republic, Madam Minister of Justice, keeps the seals, asking her administration of justice to be strict with regard to yellow vests, reminds us of the few cases that the head of state makes of the independence of justice, proclaimed at all times and of which he himself finds himself to be the guarantor. Dependence is both practical and theoretical, for, in the country of Montesquieu, the administration of justice is not a power, but an authority dependent on the executive, an instrument of power. The message is heard and unprecedented judicial repression is in action. Leniency is not granted to yellow vests and the rule of law, which is intended to legitimize public action, applies only to dangerous individuals who are left at liberty by cowardice and lack of room in prison. Yes, the rule of law is seen by our compatriots as something incomprehensible, distant from their concerns and serving a small number of privileged people. While there is still some doubt in this regard, recent judicial demonstrations of the presidential election campaign have shown that there is a double standard in this area and that these can wreak havoc in the theoretically protected area of democratic debate. The difficulties in which your government is struggling today – your power in the broadest sense – are largely due to the use made during the presidential campaign of the administration of justice, in particular the national financial prosecutor's office. Putting under the same term of "justice" the action to prosecute and the action to judge came to light in French ambiguity. It's the reign of gender confusion. This is not new, but, in the context of the presidential election, it is the heart of the democratic system that has been affected. So we can no longer reform, but we must recast. The answer lies in the organisation of the security of the French, an essential regal mission, and of justice, whose great features I paint here. Justice is exercised in the courts, whose independence is fundamental to its exercise. We must therefore commit ourselves to the election of magistrates in the courts. Only the election will ensure the effective independence of our judges. This is commonly defined as the judiciary. To independence will have to correspond proximity to the litigants. Security implements police, structures and magistrates. It is the grouping of these personnel into a large ministry of security that will give the necessary effectiveness that the French want in the face of the inexorable rise of crime. The implementation of a judiciary is on the agenda. In fact, isn't it time, minister, to put him in motion? Of course, this change is constitutional. A referendum on this subject has its full place in the French Republic. The referendum of popular initiative will undoubtedly be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u115	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u116	In recent years, our legislation has evolved in the direction of greater independence of judges, particularly those of the public prosecutor's office, in terms of both the performance of their duties and the conditions under which they are appointed. The Act of 25 July 2013 prohibits individual instructions. In article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, only the possibility remains for the guard of seals to issue general instructions on criminal policy to the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the sole purpose of which is to ensure the equality of citizens before the law throughout the territory of the Republic. You see, therefore, that under this Act, the Government cannot transmit any individual instruction to any public prosecutor. With regard to the status of prosecutors, the 2008 constitutional reform entrusted the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary – CMS – initially entrusted to the President of the Republic, the first President of the Court of Cassation and the Attorney General of the same Court. The draft constitutional law adopted by the two assemblies in 2016, but never proposed to Congress, proposed to change the modalities for the appointment of prosecutors, providing for the assent of the CSM. He also proposed that the latter be appointed as the disciplinary board of such judges. The draft constitutional revision, which was presented to Parliament last spring and which began its consideration in the National Assembly, incorporates these provisions, which strengthen the independence of the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, in accordance with article 20 of the Constitution, "the Government shall determine and conduct the policy of the Nation". As such, it must guide criminal policy by means of general instructions which do not in any way call into question the independence of prosecutors. The Constitutional Council confirmed, in a recent decision of 8 December 2017, that these provisions ensured a balanced balance between the principle of independence of the judicial authority and the prerogatives of the Government under article 20. Reflecting this specificity, article 5 of the Ordinance of 22 December 1958 on the Statute of Magistrates places prosecutors under the authority of the keeper of seals. This authority, which is thus exercised through general criminal policy instructions, does not call into question their independence. In fact, prosecutors alone have the power to initiate the prosecution, and their word at the hearing is free. This organization therefore does not call into question the principle of the separation of powers to French. You see, honourable Member, that the independence of judges, especially those of the public prosecutor's office, is ensured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u117	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Chiche, to put his question, No. 508, on the psychiatry service of the hospital in Niort.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u118	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to ask you about the working conditions of healthcare staff and the conditions for hospitalisation of patients in the psychiatric department of the hospital in Niort. Today he enters his one hundred and twenty-seventh day of strike – one hundred and twenty-seven days that reflect many days of fatigue, distress, distress, danger and abandonment. Please know, Madam Secretary of State, that the psychiatry service as a whole is bereaved by this situation. The Department of Deux-Sèvres is the most affected in terms of the number of doctors. Psychiatrists are no exception to this rule. There is an urgent need, given the lack of human and material resources available to the structure. The opening of new jobs and better working conditions would put people at the centre of concerns and restore safety in the exercise of the profession. At a time when mental health accounts for about 20% of national health-related expenditures, psychiatry can no longer wait. On 28 June, at the presentation of the Roadmap for Mental Health and Psychiatry, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn, announced measures to support an accessible, diversified and quality psychiatry offer. In terms of funding, it was decided, on the one hand, to allocate EUR 50 million to psychiatry and, on the other hand, to thaw EUR 415 million for hospitals as a whole. Could you tell us, regarding the €50 million envelope for psychiatry, the exact amount that will be allocated to the hospital in Niort? In addition, the ARS Nouvelle-Aquitaine informed us that the hospital in Niort would benefit from €759,000 of the €415 million of frozen appropriations. Can you confirm that this is very much additional money, in addition to the appropriations from the EUR 50 million envelope?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u119	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u120	You have wished to draw the Government's attention to two issues. The first concerns the working conditions of the staff and the conditions of hospitalisation of patients in the psychiatry department of the Niort hospital centre; The second concerns, more broadly, the general situation of psychiatry in France. You are right, the situation of medical and health care demography in the mental health sector in Les Deux-Sèvres is complicated, but the social conflict you are referring to is now in the phase of extinction, thanks to a quality social dialogue led by the management of the institution since September 2018. This dialogue led to the signing of an end-of-conflict protocol, shared by three out of four trade union organisations. The global agreement strengthens the teams by speeding up nursing recruitment, agreeing on alternative arrangements to promote the quality of life at work and facilitating CDI passages for paramedical staff. With regard to the resources allocated to the hospital in Niort, I confirm that the institution will benefit from an additional €750,000 compared to the appropriations allocated in 2018, for the thawing of the appropriations announced in December. With regard to the general situation of psychiatry, you know our commitment to this sector, which has resulted, since the end of 2018, in the granting of additional financial means: 50 million euros, including 91000 for the hospital centre in Niort. Our roadmap on mental health and psychiatry aims to improve living conditions, social inclusion and improved access to care and support. We promote a cross-cutting, territorialized approach to mental health policy in a dynamic of "going to" and strengthening the power of patient action. The hospital in Niort has important assets to fully appropriate these guidelines and contribute to them through its actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u121	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u122	I thank you for these clarifications and for the government executive's commitment to psychiatry in the Niort Hospital and, more broadly, for the situation of hospitals. I would like to point out that, within the framework of the social movement existing in this hospital, a number of agreements have been reached between management and trade union organisations. It would be a good idea to once again bring together all the social actors around the negotiating table in order to find a collective solution between the health professionals and the management of the hospital in Niort, to go ever further in improving the working conditions and reception conditions of the patient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u123	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to put his question, No. 524, on health infrastructure in the Vosges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u124	Remiremont Hospital is the public hospital performing the most surgical acts in the Vosges. Remiremont Hospital is the public maternity hospital with the highest number of births in the department. The hospital of Remiremont is the health lung of the Vosges mountain, its valleys and part of the Franc-Comtois territory. I have had the opportunity to question Minister Agnès Buzyn on the subject on numerous occasions. That is why I ask you today to confirm that the Remiremont hospital will maintain its maternity level 2A, thus maintaining the neonatal service, its emergency department twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, and that there will be a fair distribution of the surgical and medical services with Epinal, without undressing the Romarimontain hospital. In addition, I would like to thank you for confirming that, as part of the "My Health 2022" plan, this hospital will be well classified as a specialized facility. Furthermore, I would like to submit to you the idea of developing the Romarimontain hospital, for example with the creation of a centre specializing in Lyme disease. A hospital must walk on two legs: the "activities" side, evoked in opening remarks, but also, the "human" side. More than in any other activity, in the hospital sector, the human must be at the centre of the organization. How can we defend a project without humanity, without explanation, without involving all the stakeholders? So my last question is about hospital management: what actions do you intend to take so that directors are more humanistic and respectful of their teams? What do you intend to do to increase the involvement of local elected officials in decision-making bodies? I am thinking in particular of real powers for the presidents of supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u125	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u126	Mr President, thank you for your question. I know that the issue of the quality of health services and infrastructure in your constituency – the third electoral district of the Vosges – is important to you and I can only commend your investment and your work. As you know, a performance contract 2018-2022 will be signed by the end of January between the Grand Est Regional Health Agency and the Epinal and Remiremont Hospitals to redress their particularly degraded financial situation. The implementation of this performance contract will be strongly accompanied by the ARS Grand Est during the entire contract period, for a total amount of more than 35 million euros. Work has focused both on internal performance and on the performance of the territorial organisation of the supply, in order to propose a coherent, graduated and balanced organisation of the provision of care, in line with the available resources. The medical communities of the two institutions must work on a medical project to meet the needs of the population and ensure the long-term sustainability of the provision of hospital care in that territory. The offer that will be organized in this way will be part of the strategy of transformation of the health system: the plan "my health 2022" provides that each hospital will in future have to adapt its organizations according to the type of care delivered. At this stage of work, commitments were made by the RSA to maintain the two maternity wards and the two operating sites of Épinal and Remiremont. With regard to the project of a centre specializing in Lyme disease at the Remiremont hospital centre, it could be studied in the context of the medical project of the local hospital group and in the light of the new guidelines for the management of vector diseases. Finally, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health takes care of those who care. We are also making special efforts to ensure that the humanistic and team respect values are shared by all hospital professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u127	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u128	Thank you for your comments and especially for your last sentence, because humanistic values are essential. No one knows the territories better than the elected ones. However, signing a performance contract that the chairman of the supervisory board himself refused to sign, as happened in Remiremont, amounts once again to passing over the elected officials, and that is damaging. Of course, there is a civil service and senior officials, but it is the elected officials who know the territory best. That is why, in my last question, I asked you whether the Government had a vision on this subject: I really ask you to think about it, because we must put our elected representatives back at the centre of the mechanism and give real powers to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u129	Mr Sebastien Jumel, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No. 499, concerning the provision of psychiatry for the Dieppe hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u130	You know my commitment to defending Dieppe Hospital in its ability to meet the health needs as measured in territorial diagnoses. I want to thank Agnès Buzyn – the compliment is rare enough to be underlined – for having responded to our request to rebase the budget allocation in psychiatry to take into account an increasingly untenable situation in Normandy. I hope that the €400,000 allocation will be sustained. But this morning I wish to question you on another serious matter. The Dieppe Hospital, a support institution for a territory-based hospital group with a human dimension, has undergone profound modernization. At the same time, the medical community has developed an ambitious shared medical-care project, to provide the inhabitants of our territory with an adequate health response. In Dieppe, however, the comparison between actual and theoretical numbers, based on objective indicators, shows a worrying gap, a rapidly growing and even growing shortage of medical jobs. Two-thirds of the disciplines are now understaffed – I keep the precise tables at your disposal. Remember that anesthesia, radiology, emergencies, paediatrics, oncology, follow-up and rehabilitation care, psychiatry, child psychiatrists and addictology are in very high tension, while other sectors, such as gynaecology, ORL, biology, internal medicine or geriatrics, are in fragility, while our hospital is experiencing an increase in its activity which has no equivalent in Normandy or even in France. This establishment has earned 1,000 stays a year for many years, reflecting the scale of the medical and social needs of our territory, characterized by a fragile and disadvantaged population. Without waiting for the effects of a loosened clausus numerus or the increase in the training you wish to deconcentrate, there are ways to help a hospital such as ours to cope with such a growth crisis, such as the dangling of regional specialist assistants and the assignment of internal doctors; Other avenues could be considered, such as more incentive pay for professionals, who never by chance choose to work in a public hospital. Madam Secretary of State, in order to ensure a balanced planning of the territory in the field of health, what concrete, precise measures do you intend to take to treat a hospital with a human dimension like ours?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u131	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u132	In accordance with the commitments made and in connection with the National Roadmap on Psychiatry and Mental Health, the Normandy Regional Health Agency has undertaken work on the annual operating allocation with health facilities carrying out psychiatry activities. A working group started its work a year ago, with the aim of formulating proposals on the scope and rules for modulation of funding. Following these reflections, it was decided to initiate a gradual modulation and, for 2017, the institution was awarded an exceptional non-renewable allocation of EUR 388000. A long-term national envelope of €50 million was presented at the end of 2018 to support psychiatry activities on a sustainable basis. This envelope was distributed among the regions, with Normandy benefiting from 1.3 million euros, including 415000 euros for the Dieppe hospital centre. The regional envelope will be divided on an ongoing basis in 2019 and the distribution will be based on the criteria derived from the regional modulation work for the benefit of the least-equipped institutions, including the Dieppe hospital. Regarding the medical presence at the Dieppe hospital, we are well aware of the difficulties you are telling us about. Also, the bill that we will introduce to you in a few weeks will be the first step in the restructuring of community care and the formation of a care community. Bridges and cooperation tools will be facilitated between the hospital, the city and the medical and social sector. The purpose of the coordinated exercise is to develop, the gradation of care to be clarified and assumed in order to fluidize the course of patients and improve the quality, safety and relevance of the care provided. Finally, the financing and pricing project, which you mention in watermark, continues. A first step has already been taken with the vote in the law on the financing of social security of the lump sum remuneration for chronic diseases – diabetes and chronic renal failure in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u133	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u134	Minister, first of all, I want to thank you for the accuracy of your answer. The sustainability of the psychiatry endowment is good news. I take note of this with satisfaction. Of course, I will be taking part in the debate on the health bill, so as to propose a vision of things that may be somewhat different from yours, and in any case complementary. I would, however, like you, without waiting for this text, to examine, in conjunction with the RSA, how, thanks to the tools at your disposal, rebalancing could be carried out, in particular by dangling regional specialist assistants and internal doctors to hospitals like ours, or even by easing the remuneration criteria: as you know, the attractiveness of the posts depends on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u135	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to put her question, No 523, on the recognition of asbestos workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u136	At the origin of a health scandal in the 1990s in France, causing 3,000 deaths a year in our country, asbestos is still at the heart of the fight of many former employees exposed. In the southern Isère territory of which I am the elected one, several cases illustrate the difficulty that employees and former employees encounter in getting their exposure recognized. I am thinking in particular of the former employees of the Compagnie des mines de La Mure, which were closed permanently in March 1997. They are fighting to have the exposure of all employees recognized, not just those who descended to the bottom of the mines. A delegation was received by the Directorate-General for Labour, in my presence more than 18 months ago. Since then, we haven't heard from anyone. I am also thinking of the employees of the Cevco Economic Interest Group located in Pont-de-Claix. This GIE was created by the Rhône-Poulenc and Chloralp companies in 1997. The employees of the site, originally owned by Rhône-Poulenc, then by GIE Cevco in 1997 and Chloralp in 2002, have worked under the same conditions, in the same place, throughout these years. The Rhône-Poulenc and Chloralp companies are listed under the Pont-de-Claix site on the list of establishments that have manufactured asbestos-containing materials, which was established by ministerial decree. Surprisingly, the GIE Cevco, on the other hand, does not appear. In this particular case, it would simply be a matter of applying existing orders, such as the one of 23 August 2013 amending and supplementing the list of establishments for the manufacture, flaking and heat-repellent of asbestos which may qualify for the early cessation allowance for asbestos workers, Article 2 of which provides that "these same establishments shall be deemed to be included in [this] list where they have carried out the same activity under a different name". Legal tools therefore exist, but they do not appear to be applied. Behind these situations, which seem to be the result of administrative delays, there are women and men: employees or former employees who already suffer from asbestos pathologies, others who live with the anguish of developing one day serious diseases. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, can you tell us what you intend to do in practice in order to speed up the recognition of such institutions and facilitate the procedures for these women and men to whom the French State has a duty?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u137	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u138	Madam Member, I have heard of the concerns and difficulties that you have and the employees who have been exposed to asbestos during their careers to access the early cessation of activity of asbestos workers. Since its inception, this scheme has enabled the early retirement of nearly 100,000 people. However, the Act has retained the activities for which the asbestos risk was highest and does not envisage taking into account all exposure situations. The situation of the establishments you quote is complex. Everyone here is well aware that the answers given are very sensitive to the people concerned. The union CGT des mineurs de La Mure has requested the registration of the operating unit of the Dauphiné on the lists of the system of early cessation of activity of asbestos workers and a delegation from this union as well as you were received to the General Directorate of Labour in July 2017. It is clear from this interview that this establishment does not fall within the scope of the scheme, since mining and similar undertakings are subject to a special social security organisation for risks relating to sickness, accidents at work and occupational diseases, as well as old age and invalidity. With regard to the Pont-de-Claix chemical platform, it was originally owned by Rhône-Poulenc, whose activities were gradually transferred to separate establishments. Some of them have been included in the list of asbestos-based manufacturing, flaking and heat-repellent establishments eligible for the allowance for the period from 1916 to 2005. The situation of the employees of the Cevco du Pont-de-Claix economic interest group has only recently been raised. A litigious procedure is pending before the Court of Appeal of Grenoble. The issue of the application of section 2 of the August 23, 2013 Order you cited should be decided after the hearing scheduled for April 4, 2019. All the conclusions of this decision will be drawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u139	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u140	Thank you for that clarification, Madam Secretary of State. I take note of the hearing held on April 4, which will decide on the situation of the Pont-de-Claix site. I will, of course, be very attentive to the decision to be made. I hope that it will lead to the inclusion of GIE Cevco on the list of establishments eligible for the early cessation allowance for asbestos workers, as well as the other companies present on the site. As far as the Charbonnages de France are concerned, I understand that the problem is a matter for a particular sector, subject to specific arrangements, but it should not be taken into account. Since our meeting with the Labour Branch, we have not received a written response that tells us what you have just said and what process should be initiated to obtain recognition. It would be good if we were given this information. In advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u141	The floor is open to Mr Jean-François Eliaou, to put his question, No. 509, on the Wolf Plan 2018-2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u142	My question is to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. In the fourth electoral district of the Hérault, pastoralism is an integral part of the economy, culture and traditions. It allows the creation and maintenance of jobs in several sectors, particularly in the dairy sector, as well as the preservation of natural environments such as the Larzac plateau, the estate of Restinclières in Prades-le-Lez, the wood of Saint-Sauveur in Saint-Clément-de-Rivière and the lake of Salagou. In this sense, this activity is a guarantee of biodiversity – I insist. For several years, many herders have been concerned about the danger the wolf poses to their herds. The summer report published on December 6, 2018 by the National Office of Hunting and Wildlife noted the existence of eighty-five permanent areas, which corresponds to eleven more areas than in June 2018. The balance sheet also shows the presence of seventy-two packs throughout France, whereas in June last year there were only fifty-seven packs. A total of 430 wolves were recorded in the winter of 2018, 70 more than a year ago. The Berne Convention, which has protected the species canis lupus since 1979, was ratified by France in 1990. At its meeting at the end of November, the Bern Convention Standing Committee did not respond to the wolf's requests to decommission its strictly protected status. However, the number of sheep victims of the wolf since the beginning of 2018 has been more than 11600 throughout the national territory. The National Wolf Action Plan for 2018-2023 set the viability threshold for 500 individuals. This threshold, which guarantees the perennial existence of a species, is exceeded or about to be exceeded. What measures will be taken for the further implementation of the national plan, which appears to have achieved its objective with regard to the viability of the species?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u143	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u144	Mr President, thank you for your question, to which I will reply in the place of Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, who unfortunately was unable to be present in the Chamber this morning. I know how much you, honourable Member, are involved in this matter – we have already had the opportunity to discuss it many times. The national plan for wolf and breeding activities for 2018-2023 includes a set of measures to reconcile the presence of wolf, a strictly protected species in France, with breeding activities. In particular, it aims to achieve, by 2023 at the latest, a minimum population of 500 wolves in France, a figure considered as a first threshold for the population viability of the species, not by us, but by the National Museum of Natural History and the National Office of Hunting and Wildlife. Today, ten months after the launch of this plan, the National Board of Hunting and Wildlife estimates that the number of wolves in 2019 is likely to reach 500. This increase in numbers is taking place in a context marked by the maintenance of a high level of damage to herds – you have alerted us to this fact on several occasions, Mr. By 2018, this would have affected about 12,000 animals. It therefore seems necessary to define new management arrangements to be applied within the framework of the national action plan with a view to lowering the predation rate on herds. That is why the Government launched work at the end of 2018 to define the changes to be made to the national action plan before the next rise to the summers. This work will focus on prevention and compensation and include scientific advice from the National Board of Hunting and Wildlife and the National Museum of Natural History. They will be submitted to the Scientific Council of the Wolf Plan, whose constitution will be adopted in January, as well as to the National Council for Nature Protection. The various actors involved in this issue, including professional agricultural representatives, local elected representatives and nature conservation associations, will be closely involved in this reflection, which will be undertaken under the chairmanship of the Prefect of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, prefect "wolf coordinator". The next meeting of the national group is scheduled for mid-February. Be assured that we will keep you informed, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u145	Mr Jean-François Eliaou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u146	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for this very precise answer, which satisfies us. However, I stress that the initial objective has been achieved; Now we have to move on to the next step. For my part, I will make you a suggestion – in a rather humorous way: to rename the national plan for the wolf "national plan for pastoralism". That would be very important symbolically.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u147	Mr Nicolas Turquois has the floor to put his question, No 519, on the safety of gas cylinders.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u148	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of State, the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to the safety of domestic gas cylinders, in particular as regards the intervention of firefighters in the event of a fire. In this case, the temperature rises very quickly around 600 degrees and the pressure of the gas inside the bottle reaches 50 bars, as a result of which it explodes. This applies not only to dwellings, but also to vehicles, due to the regular presence of bottles in motorhomes or in simple cars used to replenish gas. The installation of a thermo-fusible valve, which would allow the release of the gas from about 100 degrees, would eliminate the danger associated with the explosion. A similar device has been installed on vehicles with liquefied petroleum gas – LPG – and several neighbouring countries have already adopted such devices on gas cylinders. Madam Secretary of State, all firefighters are waiting for such a development. One of their Morbihan colleagues lost his life as a result of the explosion of a gas bottle about ten years ago. Since then, there have been many casualties among firefighters and civilians. In addition, the injured are sometimes more severely affected because, in some situations, for fear of gas cylinders, firefighters are kept at a distance, which may make their interventions less effective. So there's an emergency. I would like to know the reasons for preventing such regulatory developments in France and the means to remedy them. The lives of our firefighters deserve priority attention to this very technical issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u149	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u150	Mr President, you have asked Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. Previously, I would like to extend my condolences to the families, loved ones and colleagues of the two fallen firefighters on duty this weekend. I have an emotional thought for them. You are asking, honourable Member, a fundamental question. More than ever, the safety of firefighters must be at the heart of the Government's concerns. You would like to draw our attention to the fact that some firefighters' representatives are proposing that gas cylinders must be fitted with valves, which may limit the risk of explosion in the event of a fire, and thus the exposure of firefighters. Gas cylinders are subject to the European Harmonisation Directive 2010/ 35/EU, which does not require the presence of valves. Bottles conforming to this text may circulate freely throughout the territory of the European Union. In France, the majority of gas cylinders are not equipped with valves, the French device being that of a flow limiter, incompatible with this technique. Therefore, following exchanges between my departments and those of fire and rescue, the Ministry decided to entrust to the National Institute of the Industrial Environment and Risks, INERIS, a study which will have to determine the respective advantages and disadvantages of the various safety devices, with the aim of analysing all the risks, not just those of fire. The results will be available at the end of 2019 and will allow France, if this proves relevant, to argue in favour of a change in European regulations on the design of gas cylinders. Indeed, since they can move freely throughout the Union, it is only on this scale that a response can be obtained. INERIS is working on this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u151	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u152	Madam Secretary of State, I have heard your answer. I would like to pay tribute to Colonel Delaunay of SDIS 44 – the Loire-Atlantique department fire and rescue service – who invested heavily in this issue when his colleague from Morbihan lost his life. He had in particular alerted Mr François de Rugy, then Member of Parliament for Loire-Atlantique, on the subject. On the other hand, allow me to raise doubts about the possibility of European harmonisation. Indeed, French bottles correspond to a strictly national standard and are not usable in neighbouring countries, several of which have adopted thermo-fusible valve devices. The mission entrusted to INERIS will allow us to resume the experiments carried out by Colonel Delaunay, who probably deserved to be carried out more precisely. However, I stress the urgency of the problem: it is essential that changes in the regulation take place this year or the following year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u153	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor to put her question, No. 520, concerning the passage to H gas in the Hauts-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u154	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, my question also concerns gas, but this time from the point of view of supply. The gas networks of the Hauts-de-France are currently supplied with B gas – for low calorific value – by a deposit in the Netherlands at the end of operation. Therefore, in order to ensure continuity of supply after 2029, it is necessary to convert the B gas network to a gas with a high calorific value, known as H gas, which currently supplies the rest of the French territory. In addition to changes in transmission and distribution networks, this large-scale project requires intervention by each customer. On the consumer side, both professional and private, some changes will also have to be made: an adjustment of the pressure will have to be made, as will an adjustment of the appliances. The pilot phase, known as Operation Tulipe, is in the process of being started: the first letters were sent to the customers concerned. This phase will end in 2020 and will involve 85,000 customers, from Doullens in the Somme to Dunkerquois in the Nord department, via Ternois in Pas-de-Calais. Some aircraft will have to be changed: it is estimated that 2 to 5% of aircraft over the age of 40. It is in the elderly or in the unrenovated dwellings where the most precarious often reside that these materials will not be able to withstand the change in gas composition. Our objective is to combat energy insecurity and to provide a solid and just response to the needs of the ecological transition, who will pay for the adjustment and the change of equipment? Will this be the concessionaire, through the equalization of national solidarity, from the test phases that begin in 2019? Can you reassure us on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u155	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u156	Mrs Deprez-Audebert, I will reply to you in the place of the Minister of State who was unable to attend this morning. Thank you for your question, which is particularly important because it will affect the lives of our fellow citizens. As you said, after more than fifty years of operation, Groningen's major gas field has now entered a phase of decline. Following an increase in the frequency and intensity of seismic activity around the deposit, in an area so far classified as an assismic, the Dutch government – with which I discussed it personally – announced a reduction in the deposit's production ceiling and a halt in B gas exports from 2029. To ensure the continuity of supply of the 1.3 million B gas consumers, a gradual conversion of the H gas network has been launched. This conversion requires prior checking of all gas appliances to ensure that each appliance is able to be supplied with H gas – a priority safety issue. The verification of the appliances of residential consumers will be carried out by the operator of the natural gas distribution system to which they are connected. Part of the equipment can operate with both B gas and H gas and therefore does not require any additional operation. Others, however, need to be settled or adapted. These adjustments or adaptations will also be made by the distribution system operator. However, as you point out, a final category of equipment cannot be adjusted or adapted to operate with H-gas; replacement is therefore necessary. To help residential consumers forced to replace a gas appliance, the 2019 Finance Act provides for the award of a conversion cheque, a special payment document that will allow them to pay for the acquisition and installation of the replacement appliance. During a transitional phase necessary for the deployment of this system, equivalent aid will be provided by the operators of the natural gas distribution networks. For the sake of social justice, in order to avoid placing an unbearable burden on certain consumers, I confirm that the costs of these conversion operations of the B gas network will be shared among natural gas consumers through the distribution network usage rate. This operation will also provide an opportunity to step up actions to promote energy renewal at the level of the territories concerned. My services are at your disposal for further information.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u157	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u158	Thank you for your complete and detailed answer. We will be vigilant: the subject is important in the Hauts-de-France, which is far from being the warmest region in France and where income indicators are the lowest in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u159	Mr Stéphane Demilly, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 526, concerning the holding of non-domestic animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u160	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the Order of 8 October 2018 laying down general rules for the holding of non-domestic animals lays down new rules for the holding of animals forming part of the wildlife held in captivity. A collective of expert associations on biodiversity protection, whose work is widely respected – One Voice, Sea Shepherd France, Le Biome, Centre Athenas – has been involved in the fight against wildlife trafficking and has regularly sounded alarms, for many months, about the consequences of this new regulation, trying in vain to raise the Government's awareness of it. He challenged this order before the Council of State. From now on, many very rare species, sometimes represented in nature by a few dozen individuals, could be held on simple tele-declaration on the pretext of administrative simplification. For some of them, there are no captive flocks. These new rules risk creating an air appeal and reviving the market for exotic animals that are the cause of trafficking, which is the second cause of biodiversity erosion. In addition, the new regulatory amendments also remove several mandatory measures that must be followed by establishments holding captive wildlife. According to the associations, this change would make controls impossible and would promote the laundering of illegally held animals – which has been the new face of wildlife trafficking in Europe for the past ten years. Finally, this new regulation does not respect the principle of non-regression laid down in Article 2 of the recent law for the recovery of biodiversity, and is incompatible with the international agreements ratified by France. Many cases have recently shown that France is one of the main "consumer" countries of species derived from trafficking. It therefore seems to me imperative that you receive quickly and in person these associations that bring together experts and passionate, in order to listen to their arguments. For many years, they have been seeking an interview with the ministry, without success. Can you tell us if you are prepared to respond to this request and to detail the corrections you are planning to make to this order, in order to bring it into line with the imperative requirement to protect biodiversity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u161	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u162	Mr Demilly, the decree of 8 October 2018 laying down general rules for the possession of non-domestic animals follows, as you pointed out, from the law of 8 August 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, and from its implementing decrees of 23 February and 17 November 2017. It introduces a new regime of declaration of detention, replacing that of authorization of detention, which could also be tacit. The reporting procedure applies only to cases of authorisation breeding, where the holding of the animals is not for profit or trading. Under the regulations that existed since August 2004, the holding regime has been relaxed for only eight species, neither threatened, nor dangerous, nor difficult to rear – seven birds and one reptile. The possession of animals of the majority of the protected species and of the most endangered species covered by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, CITES, remains reserved for establishments with prefectural opening authorisation, the person in charge of which holds a certificate of capacity. Exposure of animals of such species for sale remains prohibited, in particular in petries. The decree of 8 October 2018 is part of the general movement to simplify administrative procedures for users, which does not remove anything from the possibilities of control of the State services. Thus, where the prescribed requirements are not complied with, the administration shall retain its possibilities of intervention and sanction resulting from the provisions of the Environmental Code. The decree also specifies the conditions for the identification of animals, extending the obligation of individual marking to new species and introducing a registration in a national identification file. While it makes simplifications for holders of non-threatened or dangerous species, the aim of this Order is therefore to improve the supervision of the holding and to combat the trafficking of wild species by strengthening the traceability of specimens and their holding regime, and above all by facilitating controls. France is very committed nationally and internationally to the preservation of biodiversity, which is one of our priorities. In 2020, we will host the World Nature Congress. We want to see coherence between our domestic action and our initiatives at international and European level. Believe me, we are very involved and we pay great attention to the preservation of species. I would be happy to discuss this in more detail with you to understand the needs and requests of the associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u163	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u164	Thank you for this answer, which shows your willingness to react. I'll give you the phone number of the association group, and I'll count on you to get in touch with him. Even if you didn't say it, I read on your face that you were ready to receive it, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u165	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor to put her question, No 503, on the protection of the sound environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u166	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I would like to ask you about the policy of protecting the sound environment – a particularly sensitive subject in my department of Indre-et-Loire, crossed by two major transport infrastructures: a high-speed line, LGV, and the A10 motorway. Local residents complain about the noise generated by these roads, which greatly affects them. Several associations had also been set up to oppose nuisances and seek compensation for the damage suffered by citizens. It is in this context that you have commissioned the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development, the CGEDD, to carry out expertise on the reasons for the important mobilization of the noise generated by the LGV and on the responses to it. In my constituency, an appeal has been filed by an association which considers that the noise law is not properly applied and calls for significant changes in order to remedy the noise nuisances arising from traffic on the A10. The need to protect our sound environment is an issue that goes far beyond the local level. On 10 October, the World Health Organization published a very alarming report on the health effects of noise in the environment. A sum of ten years of scientific work, this report shows that transport-related noise is one of the most harmful sources of pollution to health in Europe. In fact, its health manifestations are worrying: hypertension, effects on sleep, cognitive impairment, loss of quality of life and well-being, and consequences for mental health. The situation is so serious that WHO recommends that States rapidly reduce the maximum noise exposure thresholds by almost ten decibels. What means does the Government therefore intend to use to achieve such objectives in order to protect the health of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u167	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u168	Madam Member, you have wished to draw the attention of Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for transport, who, unfortunately, cannot be present, asked me to respond in her place. I want to reassure you from the outset, on a subject that I know is of great interest to you and on which you have already alerted the Government and the departments of the Ministry several times: we are fully aware of the problem. In the field of transport, the sound effects of new infrastructure are strictly regulated by regulation. The contractor must take into account daytime and nighttime noise from the design of the development project, and undertake not to exceed certain noise level thresholds. These provisions are scrupulously complied with by the State authorities when they take over the works, as well as by the concessionaires who exercise this role in the framework of a public service delegation – as is the case for the A10 motorway at the crossing of the Indre-et-Loire. Please be aware, however, that the Government does not include regulation in a fixed framework and that we are open to changes in existing legislation in order to better protect the population from these very painful nuisances. It is therefore planned to amend part of the European Directive of 25 June 2002 on the assessment and management of noise in the environment. The new work of the World Health Organization you have cited will inform this updating work. Exchanges are under way at the level of the European Commission and the Member States, and discussions are continuing with a view to questioning the current rules on the basis of such work. Beyond these time-consuming regulatory developments, the Government wishes to take decisive action against noise nuisances from now on. I know you'll help us with our thoughts. The first is to remedy the situation of homes corresponding to the black spots of noise – the most harmful to human health, about which the current regulations are already far out of date. The Minister has asked her services to pay particular attention to these specific cases. In addition, a joint mediation mission between the LGV Bretagne-Pays de la Loire and Sud Europe Atlantique was entrusted to the CGEDD in May 2018 in order to bring concrete solutions. The authors met with the majority of stakeholders and are due to submit their report in January. On this basis, the Mission will be able to make any recommendations it deems useful regarding regulatory developments. I know that the Minister will ensure that these recommendations are followed up with concrete results. I also know that we will be able to count on your vigilance in this respect, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u169	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u170	Thank you for that clarification, Madam Secretary of State. I am pleased to learn that work will soon be started on this very important subject. When I looked at the file, I realized that there is no noise officer for transport infrastructure. I am surprised by this situation: airport noise is controlled by the ACNUSA, the Airport Harm Control Authority, and is subject to regulations and independent supervision. I would therefore like to suggest to you, Madam Secretary of State, the creation of an authority responsible for ensuring the proper application, in the case of other transport infrastructures, of the laws governing the emission of noise into the environment. This could be one of the topics discussed at future working meetings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u171	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor to put her question, No 506, on air pollution in the vicinity of Valencia.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u172	I would like to alert the Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, on the pollution of the air produced by the motorway near Valencia. In the valentine agglomeration, the regulatory thresholds for the pollutant NO – nitrogen dioxide – and health for particulate matter and ozone are repeatedly exceeded. Areas of proximity to roads are particularly affected by pollution. Since its installation, the Valencia Traffic Air Quality Measurement Station, located on the edge of the A7 motorway on the territory of the Valencia agglomeration, has reported annual exceedances of the annual limit value of nitrogen dioxide set in the European framework. Since June 2015, France has been the subject of a notice from the European Commission because of these overruns. In this context, a speed limitation on the A7 in the vicinity of Valencia was introduced on an experimental basis from June 2016. The analysis shows that the reduction in speed is certainly beneficial, in that it reduces the pollutant emissions associated with motorway traffic, but is still insufficient. For exhaust emissions, the greatest gain is for nitrogen dioxide; for other pollutants, on the other hand – PM10, ozone, sulphur dioxide – the decrease is much more modest. The action thus reduces the exposure of riparian populations, but is not sufficient to respect the regulatory value in a sustainable manner throughout the territory. So what should we do? The mayor of Valencia, President of Valencia Agglo, suggests a motorway bypass of Valencia, but this very expensive and consuming solution of agricultural land would only displace the problem. The Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – shows in its May 2016 report entitled "Impact of road developments on air pollution" that certain developments in the vicinity of roads or motorways can help to limit road traffic-related pollution, particularly in particulate matter and nitrogen oxides. What measures does the State intend to take to address this public health issue?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u173	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u174	Madam Member, the minister responsible for transport, unfortunately unable to be present, asked me to answer on her behalf. I thank you for your question, which is essential: this is a priority of the Government, in particular the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition. With this in mind, the roadmap "Air Quality" for the Valencian agglomeration was signed in April 2018 by the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. This ambitious roadmap provides for 18 concrete actions. Some are related to the development of carsharing and public transport within the agglomeration, but almost half are directly related to the A7 motorway. They include the use of operating measures to avoid the formation of congestion areas, as well as a study on improving the environmental integration of the motorway. Several follow-up and steering meetings have already taken place, involving the local authorities, the deconcentrated services of the State and the company ASF – Autoroutes du Sud de la France –, concessionaire de l'A7. I also believe that the deployment of low-emission zones in our polluted cities is a good tool, adaptable to local issues, to reduce road transport emissions. He has proved his worth abroad and we therefore wish to use it in France. The mobility guidance bill will make it easier and will require public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation covered by an atmospheric protection plan – PPP – to study its implementation. In addition, we will be able to benefit from your knowledge of the field, Madam Member, and from your involvement in these matters, when we work on the development of this bill, but also on its practical application. As far as Valencia is concerned, account should be taken of all traffic flows and their effects, bearing in mind the major role of the Rhodanian axis in the traffic of vehicles – this is a reality. For example, you can see that in the area of air pollution control, the Government is implementing a proactive, ambitious and concrete policy, thanks to specific short-term objectives, but also through potential changes in patterns of displacement and even economic models in some of our cities. We must continue to work together on these issues to identify concrete avenues for rapid change in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u175	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u176	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. It is good to hear that this is a priority of the Government. You point out that several works involving the different actors are under way. You're good to mention ASF. I wonder if we could not go a little further than simple measures to reduce congestion by completely transforming the current motorway: a project to which I had contributed a few years ago aimed its burial – an important project, of course, but which would allow to absorb the particles by vegetated ceilings and, from a societal point of view, to connect the inhabitants of the city centre to the Rhône, from which they are now separated by a tape of concrete that pollutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u177	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to put her question, No. 516, concerning the burial of the RN13 in Neuilly-sur-Seine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u178	This is precisely the RN13 landfill project in its segment located in the heart of my electoral district of Hauts-de-Seine, Avenue Charles-de-Gaulle, in Neuilly-sur-Seine. This avenue can undoubtedly be described as a real urban motorway because of the importance of its traffic: 160,000 vehicles of any tonnage borrow it daily; It is comparable to the Al and A3 motorways, but here the "highway" unfortunately has as its distinctive feature its insertion into a very dense urban fabric – the city centre of Neuilly-sur-Seine, a commune that it really divides in two. This surge makes it the most used and polluted urban highway in France. A study by Airparif published in June 2018 revealed a particularly high number of fine particles, particularly during peak hours. The decision to shut down the motor vehicle traffic of the counterways, taken on 28 June last in municipal council, will soon become effective. This redevelopment of the road on the surface, on the outskirts of the avenue, will undoubtedly lead to a postponement of traffic on the main axis. Counterways currently absorb 10 to 15% of the daily traffic on the axis. Their closure and the narrowing of the four-fold two-way traffic will inevitably increase congestion on the main axis and, as a result, will degrade air quality in its immediate vicinity, not to mention the effects on air quality of maintaining a very high number of signal lights. As for safety issues, for pedestrians – they are 20,000 to cross the avenue every day! – as with bikers, they obviously remain hanging. Between 1988 and 1992, very important work was carried out with the aim of reducing these nuisances, improving safety and ensuring greater tranquillity; A quarter of the axis was thus buried under an urban slab, to the great satisfaction of the residents. The special committee of the public debate on the proposed increase and coverage of the RN13 in Neuilly-sur-Seine highlighted the advantages of such burial: reduction of noise nuisances for residents, fluidity of traffic and reduction of the number of injuries. Total burial would obviously contribute to a significant improvement in the quality of life of the inhabitants. Also, at a time when public policies are increasingly limiting the use of cars for daily travel, and even as the attempt to close the lanes on the banks in Paris has shown its limits, I would like to know where the state's reflections and studies – if they have been started – on the continuation of the burial of this section of the RN13, a project which, although considerable, would contribute significantly to solving a large part of the health problems caused to the population, are being carried out. Does the public authorities envisage the resumption of this project, which began more than thirty years ago and under what terms?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u179	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u180	You have drawn the attention of the minister responsible for transport to the situation on Avenue Charles-de-Gaulle, or RN13, in Neuilly-sur-Seine. Mrs. Borne cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. The axis in question supports very large traffic and is experiencing difficult traffic conditions during peak hours. In order to limit traffic-related nuisances, a project to increase and cover the RN13 in Neuilly-sur-Seine was considered in 2006 and was the subject of a public debate. At the end of this debate, finer studies have highlighted technical difficulties making the project very complex. On the financial side, its cost has been estimated at 900 million euros. Due to the budgetary constraints of the State and the communities, this high cost had led to the consideration of charging the proposed tunnel to finance its implementation, a measure which, however, involved a significant risk of delaying traffic to the surface road network and which was therefore abandoned. Technically, the project's civil engineering studies have shown that the presence of metro line 1 required a reduction in the height of the subway tunnel, i.e. more than seven years of work and significant disruptions in Neuilly-sur-Seine. Finally, such a project cannot succeed without the support and active participation of the communities concerned. In the absence of such a portage, the financial and technical difficulties of the project have led to a failure to retain it and there is therefore no plan to proceed with the operation. However, as you mentioned, the commune of Neuilly-sur-Seine is defending a project to requalify the RN13 counter-ways. This operation includes the creation of pedestrian spaces, vegetated surfaces and terraces on the counterways, which would improve the living environment and thus meet the aspirations of the inhabitants of Neuilly-sur-Seine while reducing noise pollution and air pollution. This project has been instructed by the State authorities which have issued a number of requirements to satisfy all stakeholders: residents, users of the RN13, traders, local authorities and others. A favourable opportunity decision was issued by the services of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition on 6 March 2018. Be assured, honourable Member, that the services of the Minister responsible for transport remain very involved in the implementation of this project and that they will not fail to remain in close contact with you, as has been the case since the beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u181	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u182	Thank you for that clarification, Madam Secretary of State. Knowing the file somewhat, I understand your reasons for the complexity of the total burial of Avenue Charles-de-Gaulle. Nevertheless, in France, large infrastructure projects have been launched despite their technical difficulties and costs. The question was what the Government's priorities were and whether it wished to make a significant, real and lasting improvement in the nuisances suffered by the people living in the area. I regret that the Government seems to be abandoning the RN13 landfill project almost permanently, but we will certainly have an opportunity to return to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u183	Mrs Justine Benin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 521, on "Parcoursup and the future of young people in Guadeloupe".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u184	The "Parcoursup" platform was opened on December 20th. The kick-off is being launched for hundreds of thousands of students who will only have a few months to decide their future in higher education. It seems that Parcoursup ended the inequalities created by the old system which subjected certain channels to the practice of drawing lots, which was in fact unacceptable. In total, an additional 27,000 young people were able to access higher education compared to 2017. And we can only welcome the 21 per cent more scholarship students, a sign that our country still attaches importance to equal opportunities. Nevertheless, at the same time, in the overseas countries and in Guadeloupe in particular, many young people have mobilized to cry out for their distress. So we have to listen to them. This is our duty because they no longer have any hope for their future and because many felt left behind, in the framework of the Journeyup, but also because the confidence they had in the school of the Republic collapsed. But we, the ultramarine ones, cannot afford to get angry with our youth. We cannot ignore their concern. Many young Guatemalans feel left behind and feel that they are less likely to have access to graduate training than young Francilians. And what about the case of such a young girl from Mayotte, who must resign himself to giving up training for lack of resources? These young people are the living forces of the country. The future of Guadeloupe, the future of overseas France, the future of France as a whole, requires us to give them precise answers. So let us not let this young person worry and give him the means to emancipate himself through training, studies and work. Let us give her the keys to her future, so that she embodies the France of tomorrow. Also, in the name of the Republican motto, what means do you intend to implement so that the ultramarine students benefit from the same chances as the pupils of Hexagonus. What evaluation of Parcoursup can you offer us and what proposals can you make to reconcile our overseas youth with the country's future?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u185	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u186	I am responding instead of the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, who was unable to attend and asked me to replace her. In Hexagon as in the ultramarine territories, the Government's ambition in terms of higher education is the same: to democratize its access by fighting the injustice of drawing lots and selection through failure. This is the subject of both the law on the guidance and success of the students and the platform "Parcoursup". I would like to assure you, Madam Member, that the effective access of ultramarine high school students to higher education is a priority of the Government: measures have been taken to this end in the above-mentioned law. In Guadeloupe, of the 5605 candidates enrolled in the main phase, 5158 candidates, i.e. 92%, received at least one proposal, including 1880 high school fellows. The Parcoursup system has thus fulfilled its tasks perfectly. It revealed a number of challenges facing the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Indeed, if the high school students of Guadeloupe or Mayotte receive as many proposals as the national average, they are less likely to make the choice of higher education and many change projects along the way. We must understand and combat this phenomenon. This is why the law on the guidance and success of students includes an important component of social support, particularly for ultramarine high school students. These measures – lower registration fees, abolition of the €217 contribution to the health care system – have reduced the cost of university re-entry by €100 million. Special attention was also paid to fellows. In accordance with the announcements made by Frédérique Vidal, the fellows now benefit from the advance payment of the scholarship at the end of August and from the payment of the following maturities of the scholarship by the 5th of the month at the latest. The Government intends to go further in the coming year by strengthening the share of scholarship students in higher education, particularly for the benefit of ultramarine high school students. They will also be able to benefit from the mobility aid. Every effort is thus made, Madam Member, to better welcome ultramarine high school students into higher education, to reassure them and to accompany them on the road to success.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u187	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u188	I have heard your explanations, Madam Secretary of State. I remain vigilant about the social accompaniment of our students, which you have said you consider as ambitious for overseas students as for those of Hexagonus. I have also heard you say that we will go further on mobility aids when we look at the next text on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u189	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-15-O1116.u190	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Election of a Vice-President; Setting of the agenda; New reading of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill; Further reading of the draft organic law on strengthening the organization of courts. The meeting is adjourned.
