ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law to increase the minimum and inter-professional wage for growth and wages, accompanying very small enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (No 1610, 1697).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Amélie de Montchalin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u3	If we share the objectives of this bill – making work pay more, fighting poverty at work every day and responding to the social emergency that some of our compatriots are experiencing – I believe it does not offer the right tools to do so. First of all, I would like to go back to the rather caricatural observation made in this debate on wage developments in France, in particular that of the minimum wage. No, Mr. Peu, the SMIC does not stagnate in France! It is even increasing, while it is already one of the highest in Europe! With the removal of social contributions on labour income, which we voted during the review of the finance bill for 2018, an employee at SMIC has been collecting 22 euros more per month since last October. In Article 1, you propose to increase the SMIC by almost 20% in three years and by 7% in July of this year. This increase would correspond to the largest increase ever seen in France since 1981! And remember that on that date, inflation was 13%! Today, you would therefore like to increase the SMIC while we are experiencing an average inflation of 1.8%. Such an increase would not create jobs but would destroy them, nor would it strengthen purchasing power. Indeed, it is estimated that a 1% SMIC boost will destroy between 15,000 and 20,000 jobs in macroeconomic terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u4	Who is "on"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u5	I let you calculate the employment effect of an increase of 20% in three years, as you propose. Aware of the dramatic economic and social impact of such a measure, you propose in Articles 3 and 4 to set up a fund to support small and medium-sized enterprises in order to enable them, through public aid, to absorb this increase in the SMIC. You will allow me to doubt the efficiency of such a gas plant, which would benefit only the largest of small businesses, those that have the human and technical resources to access this fund. Our majority, on the other hand, chose a radically different policy, while sharing the objectives of a continuous revalorisation of work. We are relying on a reduction in the costs of companies so that they can recruit. The transformation of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE – into a 6-point long-term burden reduction for all wages, and up to 10 points at SMIC level as early as October of this year, will have positive effects on employment and wage growth. Indeed, we are convinced that the first source of increase in the purchasing power of the French is the creation of more jobs and an increase in wages caused by the fall in unemployment in our country. So what is the second objective underpinned by such an increase in the minimum wage? It would be, in your opinion, to fight hard poverty. We prefer it to increase the premium of activity, which is much more effective in reducing inequalities and combating precariousness, because this scheme targets modest households that have incomes around SMIC or who work part-time. It takes into account the income of the household, thus ensuring that national solidarity supports families, especially those with children, who need it most. The choice of the Government and the majority of an unprecedented increase in the activity premium, decided in the context of the economic and social emergency measures adopted last December, is a choice of social justice. For the past two months, our compatriots who have benefited from this bonus have been 1.1 million more! This represents an additional €90 for a SMIC, i.e. €250 per month of income supplement; This amount can be up to EUR 400 under certain conditions. We have a real business support tool here, which we prefer to increase SMIC. It should be noted that only 20% of employees at SMIC live in low-income households, with 80% benefiting from different economic conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u6	It's amazing to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u7	The majority has also chosen a proactive policy of sharing the fruits of the activity, when it increases. It is based on three mechanisms: the defiscalisation of the exceptional end-of-year premium, the defiscalisation of overtime as of January 1st of this year and the abolition of the social incentive package for companies with fewer than 250 employees. These three measures reward the work of employees, without endangering the health of companies, since they only distribute the value created when they have the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u8	Pay, not reward the work of the employees!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u9	Reward and pay, of course. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group – Michèle de Vaucouleurs applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be deceived by this falsely generous bill. It is not enough to increase the SMIC to ensure permanent wage increases. It is also not necessary to support with public money the small and medium-sized enterprises in which wages would increase, because why would employees in the same occupation in large companies not benefit from it? We need a comprehensive and coherent action to improve the competitiveness of our enterprises in order to reduce unemployment, while responding to the social emergency in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u10	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u11	Today, at the initiative of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, we are debating a bill to increase SMIC and wages, by accompanying TPEs and SMEs. This is a major issue, as the issue of pay for work arises in our country. We won't pay enough for those who work, we won't pay enough for the work. We all know, in our constituencies, professional situations in which women and men, after long years of service, often for difficult jobs and demanding tasks, receive too low wages. On labour income in general, in our economic and social system, I consider that the structure of the employee's remuneration suffers from a lack of dynamism and valorisation. Interest in the company's results accounts for too little of the overall volume of remuneration. The idea of participation in results for employees is very good, but its implementation remains too limited. I am of the opinion that we are reviewing this issue, far beyond what the provisions of the company growth and transformation bill, says PACTE, propose to do, so that we have a way of paying for the employee's work and individual performance. This bill could have been the basis for a substantive debate on the issue of pay for work. I regret that our work is being shunned by a motion, tabled in a moment by the majority, which will deprive us of a debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u12	Once again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u13	...intended to advance the French software on this issue of pay for work. This bill is part of the current context of the yellow vest crisis and, according to you, the rapporteur, a "help" in the SMIC since 2012. It reflects purchasing power and, more generally, reflects the new social issue facing our nation. In terms of purchasing power, there has been an increase in the cost of living, which has hit the most modest and middle classes in several decades. Goods and services have become more expensive over time for a variety of reasons. The costs of housing or energy, for example, are higher, which places households in difficulty, since wages do not change proportionally. As for our economic and social model, as I said in our work in the Committee on Social Affairs and I would like to say again before you, it is out of sight and needs to be reviewed so as not to lead the country to an exhaustion, which, in the end, would cause fear of a democratic collapse in the face of the anger that is constantly gaining ground. Access to employment remains for all of us, the minister, the key and the objective of reshaping our economic and social model. Ladies and gentlemen, the place and function of SMIC in our economic and social system are important, but ambivalent, and illustrate the difficulty of the subject. It is important that work pays – as I said and said again – but that wages are not a barrier to hiring. Our situation is difficult, since the SMIC is higher in France than in the other countries, this situation being offset by a very low tax on low wages, which strikes the country's social accounts. This is the reality that has prevailed in France for too many years. The Communist MPs now propose to increase the minimum wage very sharply, up to 1,800 euros gross in 2022, an increase of almost 300 euros compared to 2019. To support TPEs and SMEs, they suggest the creation of an aid fund, financed by the removal of the employer contribution exemptions resulting from the transformation of the CICE into the Social Security Financing Act for 2019. Mr Little, you justify the abolition of the CICE by uncertain results and by a lack of job creation. It is too early, in my view, to estimate the impact of the abolition of the CICE. I would point out, if necessary, that the primary purpose of this tax credit was not to create jobs, but to support the competitiveness of companies, by allowing them to gain room for manoeuvre to innovate, invest and ultimately create jobs. The Republicans Group has always opposed the CICE, considering that it resembled a gas plant far too complex to achieve the objectives set. However, we cannot follow your reasoning of allocating social security exemptions from the abolition of the CICE to an aid fund for very small, small and medium-sized enterprises, intended to amortise the increase in the SMIC. More generally, the increase in SMIC would result in higher labour costs. French companies need to regain margins to ensure their sustainability and to gain competitiveness: I fear that they will not be able to absorb additional costs, particularly wages. We would take the risk, at the best of stopping the first jobs, at the worst of a job destruction, especially in relocations that you, like me, are fighting forcefully. The first victims would be young people, older people and people with little qualifications, and the mobilisation for them has to take place – I know that our opinions converge on this point. I do not share your point, Mr Peu, because it seems to me that, thanks to the decisions taken, France is regaining some competitiveness, which I welcome. Policies to exempt employers' contributions have borne fruit: in industry, the average hourly cost in France is now lower than in Germany; Similarly, the cost of the minimum wage is lower than in Germany, the Netherlands or Belgium. Despite these improvements, the French SMIC is the fifth highest in Europe; Although wages are very low in some countries, others, such as Sweden, Italy or Denmark, do not have a minimum wage. The average hourly cost of wages in France remains higher than in Germany and, a fortiori, than in other countries such as Poland. I quote this country, because a Vosges company has just moved to Poland. The cost of your proposal for companies prevents us from following you. On the other hand, we are concerned about state finances and the general interest. However, an increase in the SMIC will affect the finances of the State, since exemptions from employer contributions are calculated according to the SMIC. The higher it will be, the higher the level of these exemptions, while some of them relate to wages below or equal to 2.5 SMIC. Finally, a high SMIC leads to a high risk of low-wage traps. Indeed, it blocks many employees in the minimum income and excludes the lowest from employment, which increases the social costs to the State at the margin. On the basis of these observations, we consider that your proposal for a law, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, does not achieve the major objective of modernising our economic and social system. At the very least, this does not seem viable. Its application would increase the burden on businesses and government finances. That is why the Republican Group cannot support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u14	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u15	Today we are considering a bill, tabled by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, aimed at increasing SMIC and wages by accompanying TPEs and SMEs. For several months now, our country has been in a major crisis. Claims have emerged, particularly in the area of tax and social justice. We know that the expectations of the French in terms of purchasing power are strong. They are regularly referred to in the discussions held in our territory. Yes, the work must be more remunerative. Yes, it is not acceptable to be paid to the SMIC all its life without any prospect of evolution. Yes, the end of the month at SMIC is complicated if you have children, especially if you don't work full time, like more than 30% of paid women. The Government and our assembly have heard the distress and demands of our fellow citizens. The emergency measures that we voted for in December allowed for an increase of almost EUR 100 in remuneration at SMIC level, through an increase in the activity premium and an extension of the scope of its beneficiaries. From now on, a million more people benefit from it. This is a strong measure. Dedicated to modest households, it does not increase the cost of labour. We have made a choice of social justice, taking into account all the income of the tax home and focusing on the poorest households. On the other hand, the revalorisation of the activity premium makes it possible to help a larger number of employees, since it includes incomes ranging from 0.5 to 1.5 SMIC. However, the employment rate of low-skilled people remains too low. We must continue to invest in the skills of low-skilled people in order to improve their employability. This is the whole objective of the Skills Investment Plan, which is expected to bear fruit quickly and provide training for one million young people and one million low-skilled job seekers. Too many people are paid to the SMIC all their lives, which is not desirable. We must ensure that everyone can evolve by strengthening the skills of the least skilled workers. Precarious workers and very small enterprises must be fully integrated into these developments, so that all employees see their skills and seniority valued. Work orders, which reinforce social dialogue within companies, contribute to this. The increase in SMIC proposed in this text will not satisfactorily solve the problem of employability and skills. In addition, it may lead to a catch-up effect, through a wage crash, forcing employers to raise wages slightly higher than the SMIC. Most importantly, economists point to the fact that an increase in the SMIC would lead to job destruction – about 25,000, even though this figure varies according to economists – which is far from the desired goal. Our French SMIC, of which it is understandable that it is considered too low for a large number of workers, remains one of the highest minimum wages in Europe. Therefore, increasing it would make our businesses less competitive than those of neighbouring countries. However, if our businesses become less attractive, it will have a direct impact on employment. Responding to demands for social justice by penalizing our businesses – which create jobs – would be a mistake. The impact of this bill on our public finances must also be taken into account. On the other hand, the CICE mechanism, which you are very critical of, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has not yet been properly evaluated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u16	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u17	The latest available data date back to 2015, which is a fairly short assessment window. In addition, this arrangement was not limited to safeguarding employment and pursued many purposes, such as investment development and strengthening competitiveness as well as research and development. Nevertheless, we have chosen to make it go away, because we believe that the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in long-term burdens – voted in the framework of the last PLFSS – will directly reduce the cost of work each month, which should give long-term impetus to hiring, especially for low wage levels. The proposed mechanism, based on a support fund, seems too cumbersome. Moreover, it would cause confusion for small structures and for the voluntary sector, which would lead to a high rate of non-recourse. In addition, defining this aid according to the size of the enterprise does not take into account the fact that a large number of small structures are integrated into a complex economic subcontracting network. Our economic fabric is not homogeneous. Conditioning this aid exclusively to the size of the enterprise does not seem relevant. The great national debate desired by the President of the Republic invites us to reflect on solutions aimed at improving the daily lives of the French. Many proposals are emerging before our eyes. They will need to be heard and discussed with the utmost attention. Let us take the time to analyse the proposals of our fellow citizens. They'll probably be very rich. Let us also take the time to work on it with the social partners. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is convinced that it is possible to find alternative solutions strengthening the purchasing power of the French – such as the measures provided for by the law on economic and social emergency measures – without penalising our economic fabric by destroying jobs. For the reasons I have just mentioned, our group believes that the answer provided by the text does not adequately respond to the issue and we will therefore not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u18	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u19	For the past twenty months, the Government has consistently declared that work must be paid. But doesn't every job deserve a salary? Your insistence on repeating this formula, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, hides – as often – a policy of doing the opposite of what you say. With you, it is not wages that pay for work, but national solidarity, and especially pensioners, whose widespread social contribution you have increased. In your mind, it is even the opposite that must be done. Indeed, the impact study of the PLFSS indicates that the shift in wage costs on the CSG will lead to "a downward convergence of gross wages". Your policy is that of wage moderation, certainly not that of wage increases. For several months, hundreds of thousands of French and French people have been saying their suffering from work that does not pay enough. One million six hundred and fifty thousand French and about 10% of the employees are paid to SMIC. They are mostly French women, most often part-time and employed in small businesses. It is the question of wages that is being asked, in the wake of renewed growth – even if it remains modest – of an unprecedented distribution of dividends by large companies and unfathomable and unjustifiable wage gaps. Over the last 30 years, the share of wages in value added has been declining steadily. This is why a number of competitive countries, such as Germany, the United States and Spain, are asking themselves the question of increasing the minimum wage. It seems to me urgent that we also do so. In response to these demands for fair remuneration, dignity and consideration, the President of the Republic and the majority invite us to debate. But what can we discuss? Even as the Prime Minister assumes his intention to introduce into the great national debate the question of the counterpart to social aid, can we debate the root of the problem – the initial distribution of income? Our group supports the debate on the increase in SMIC. In addition, we have been trying here for almost two years to open several more on related issues related to issues raised by the yellow vest crisis. These debates, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have systematically rejected them. Can we discuss pay differentials? The amendment tabled by socialist and related Members of Parliament during the first reading of the PACTE bill – an action plan for business growth and transformation – aimed at introducing tax incentives encouraging the reduction of wage differentials above a ratio of one to twelve, was rejected. Yet, in addition to being a justice measure – considering that no one is worth 250 times as much as another, even though this pay gap is taking place in several companies – this would significantly increase low wages. Failing to listen to us, Madam Minister of Labour, listen to Emmanuel Faber. When Danone's vice-president, Danone made a simple calculation to say: "If we cut the wages of the top 1 per cent of Danone's employees by 30 per cent, it would double the wages of the bottom 20 per cent." You can see that the problem in these large companies exposed to international competition is not so much the SMIC as the delusional remuneration of their managers. We will again defend our amendment at the re-reading of the PACTE bill, this week in committee and next week in this House. Can we discuss corporate governance? Obviously, you feel that you have solved the problem with your work orders, which have reduced the power of trade union organisations even though, throughout Europe, codetermination is being affirmed as a mode of governance reconciling efficiency and increased pay equity. Such provisions were at the heart of the "New Enterprise and New Governance" bill, defended by the Socialist deputies here just a year ago. Moreover, there would be no excessive remuneration or ridiculously low wages if employees were properly represented on boards of directors. Moreover, such governance would give preference to the definition of industrial strategies and the distribution of profits in wages rather than dividends. Can we debate the loyalty of competition between companies, so that multinationals do not capture almost all of the added value? Every year, the latter hasten to transfer hundreds of billions of euros to tax havens, which are missing from the states and forcing them to weigh their taxes on SMEs and households. Without this incredible distortion of competition, SMEs would have significant means to increase remuneration, which would also be a way for them not to lose their talents for the benefit of large companies and would allow them to develop better, so to grow. A few months ago, the fate of the proposed corporate tax reform proposed by socialist and related deputies in the context of the review of the 2019 Finance Bill, aimed at ensuring that large groups pay their taxes where they realize their profits, demonstrates that this debate is not more open by the Government and its majority. We will continue, however, by tabling our amendments again when we consider the bill to introduce a tax on GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – that we will be considering in a few weeks' time. There is no reason why only these few multinationals should pay a tax, which is far too modest. Can we discuss tax justice? This question has been asked by the French and French for several months. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, that the effective tax rate for the best paid French 0.1% is around 25 %, even though it is about 45 % for employees at the SMIC. There are a number of reasons why Socialist Members think that it is possible to increase the SMIC, if, however, the scope of the issue is extended to include business and tax justice. Today, after seeing these debates rejected, can we, at the initiative of our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, have a real debate on the stakes and method of increasing the SMIC? Will we be able to examine the structure of our labour market, in order to identify occupations and sectors of activity that are not exposed to international competition, as well as non-relocable jobs that could benefit from such an increase? Will we be able to examine the conditions under which SMEs-IMPs could be accompanied in order to have the means to do so? Unfortunately, the behaviour of the majority, when the present bill is examined in committee, suggests to what extent your proclamation of openness, benevolence and acceptance of good ideas regardless of their origin is purely rhetorical, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, even at this time of great national debate! Moreover, the Prime Minister told you in part a few days ago: "We must prepare our fellow citizens to ensure that the proposals at the exit are not the answers to all the ups and downs of the debate". The least we can say is that Members of the minority groups have learned to know this maxim since the beginning of this legislature! [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] Inequalities are at the heart of the democratic crisis that we are experiencing, and which you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have had the illusion of being the solution; On the contrary, your political behaviour appears a little more every day as a dangerous symptom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u20	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u21	This afternoon we are considering a bill defended by our colleagues in the Left Democratic and Republican Group. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for the quality of his work. All the texts proposed on this "niche" day have in common to be searched and worked out: they are the result of an ideological and political positioning which aims to propose another conception of society and the sharing of wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u22	Good analysis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u23	We do not necessarily share their presuppositions...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u24	[[Smile]] That's true too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u25	...but we welcome the confrontation of ideas and the debate that these bills allow. We still regret the tabling of motions on days reserved for opposition or minority groups. This refusal to debate sometimes leads to a preference for the inclusion of calibrated texts for social networks, based on postures, rather than intended to fuel substantive debates. This does not grow the majority or the oppositions. While the composition of the agenda in essence favours the executive, proposing alternatives to the Government's solutions is indeed the honour of our assembly and its constituent groups. We must therefore welcome this work, which is the origin of the Members, their collaborators and also the officials. The subject we are discussing today raises substantive questions. It refers in the first place to the issue of purchasing power, a concern at the heart of the demands that go through the current protest movements. How can we not question ourselves when our fellow citizens tell us about their difficult month ends, which, moreover, are coming more and more early? This problem of the "remaining to be lived" is also a reflection of the tensions and disarray that go through certain categories of the population. We can list some of them: the reality of an increase in rent prices and of a housing market in tension marked by a scarcity of supply in the medium and large cities, leading to the exodus of the least fortunate; the weight of too complex a tax and whose purpose is not always obvious or well understood by our fellow citizens, which the misadventures of the carbon tax illustrate quite well; the difficulties of access to public services in a context of divides – territorial, spatial as well as digital – that weaken and erode our social pact; access to health every day is more difficult, when making an appointment with a doctor is part of the combatant's journey; an overall sense of downgrading and loss of benchmarks. In the face of the march of the world, in the face of developments that they perceive to be inevitable, too many of our fellow citizens have the impression of being left behind. These concerns also raise the question of the effectiveness of our model of social protection, which no longer has anything to do with the model forged by the National Council of Resistance. The company has changed. Risks have changed. The economic situation is no longer the same. Our economies are increasingly interconnected, at European and global levels; flows of goods, human, financial are unprecedented. We must reiterate that the economic globalization in which our country is fully engaged has undoubtedly had beneficial effects, particularly in terms of purchasing power. However, it has not been accompanied by sufficient reinforcement of safety nets for the most vulnerable. It has also represented an unprecedented challenge for our social protection, which has often been a shock to the people's health crises. In order to increase competitiveness but also to provide a more effective response to social risks, our system has evolved. We have gradually moved from an insurance model, based mainly on work-based contributions, to a mixed model, in which taxation plays an increasingly important role. The purpose of this bill is to reassert the relevance of the original model and the concept that both employer and salary contributions would constitute only a deferred salary. This conception, however legitimate it may be, is not compatible with current constraints and challenges. The comparison with the Grenelle agreements and the increase in the SMIG by 35% decided then does not seem convincing. We no longer have double-digit inflation, nor do we have such flattering GDP growth rates; The opening rate of our economies is much higher than that of the Thirty Glorious. The increase in SMIC, even progressive, would not be a good way to improve the situation of the most modest workers; It would be a bad tool to upgrade purchasing power. Such an increase would place massive burdens on companies, encourage illegal work and hinder hiring. It would penalise the least skilled workers, often the youngest and those without training, as a matter of priority. Because of the concentration of wages around SMIC, which now accounts for 62 per cent of the median wage, it would lead to an increase in the entire wage scale, severely penalising employment. We prefer the choice of an increase in the premium of activity, more just socially, and that allows the resources of the whole tax home to be taken into account. However, you are right to point out that the increase in the amount shown on the payroll has a symbolic value, that of the recognition of the work accomplished. It marks the worker's contribution to society. It's not annoyance. In this sense, recording the amount of the activity premium on the salary sheet would be a simple measure, which could be introduced by regulation. We also remain convinced that vigorous action in favour of enterprises, the first places to create added value, would have a greater impact on job creation and wage levels. This means raising social thresholds, whose negative effects on business growth are now well documented. That is the position that we stand in the context of the review of Bill PACTE, which goes in the right direction but stops in the middle of the ford. This increase in thresholds would benefit our small businesses, which your scheme aims to support, Mr rapporteur, and which require flexibility, as a matter of priority. It is they who create jobs and have every interest in investing in their employees, in order to gain competitiveness. To act in favour of businesses would also remove the social package, which has considerably hampered the growth of profit-sharing mechanisms within companies, and which, unfortunately, the PACTE bill envisages abolition only in a way that is too partial. What would finally be the consequences of the measures you are advocating for the social security accounts, which you claim to be defending, but which one can estimate would fall due to the rise in unemployment that your bill would bring about? As you have understood, if we share the laudable concerns behind this bill, we will be against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u26	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u27	Today we are discussing a bill to increase the SMIC and to support the SME-ETs, at the initiative of our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. I welcome the work that has been done. This is an important proposal, which we cannot sweep with a back of our hands. In saying this, I am speaking mainly to Members of the Republic on the March Group. Indeed, if there was still a doubt, since November 17, no one in this country can deny the truth: in addition to other difficulties, a very large number of people are ill-paid and have difficulty completing the end of the month. To deny this implacable reality is to show worrying selfishness. According to a report by the Observatoire des Inequalités, France has more than 2 million poor workers. It's a huge number and a shame for our country. How can we accept that work keeps people in poverty? In the face of this, what was the Government's response? Do not give any boost to the SMIC on January 1, 2019. Nothing. The social and human nothingness. Are you so blind that you don't see what's happening in our streets, in our cities, in our families? Are you so blind that you don't see these people sleeping in their cars because their work doesn't allow them to pay rent? In front of this, you shed big tears on the richest: once you cry about the fate of the fraudster Carlos Ghosn; the other time, you remove the solidarity tax on wealth, then you refuse to debate it, and still today, by rejecting the bill of our comrades in the GDR group; another time, you offer 40 billion euros to the biggest companies in this country without ever asking them for any consideration. I'm telling you, that's enough! You have shown that your ideology is the protection and enrichment of the rich. So yes, it's time. It is time to take real steps to increase the purchasing power of French and French people. The people do not ask for gifts; The people demand the right to live with dignity from their work! We Members of the La France Insoumise Group believe that this bill is in the right direction. We defended this increase in SMIC in the presidential campaign and in the parliamentary elections. We will therefore vote on this bill. In addition, we have tabled an amendment to address the particular issue of the cost of living in ultramarine territories. Some colleagues on these benches are not familiar with our territories, if not at all, so I will stop for a moment on this subject. Because of the geographical and economic constraints, as well as the abuses, experienced by the overseas territories as a whole, the cost of living there is much higher than in the hexagon. In Réunion, a classic food basket is 38% more expensive than here! In 1950, the State awarded a living allowance to metropolitan civil servants working overseas. This cost of living, therefore, is recognized by the State. It was not until 1953 and sixty-two days of strike in all the overseas departments that this famous cost-of-living bonus was also granted to ultramarine civil servants working in their territory. Private sector employees and non-public service employees still do not receive this bonus. Why this discrimination in the same territory, where the whole population faces the same difficulties? This nourishes a feeling of injustice. Let us finally recognize that life is expensive for everyone overseas, and let us apply equal treatment. We have tabled an amendment to ensure that the Government is working on a solution to introduce a cost-of-living premium for all ultramarine employees. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote for this bill and for our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u28	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u29	Our debates are often decrypted and commented with greed abroad. France is one of the countries in the world where economics are examined from a left or right angle. They can no longer serve as benchmarks. The Nobel Prize in Economics Jean Tirole deplores a lack of economic culture in France? We're going to make fun of it, blame it for a too liberal approach, make it a proxy for deregulation, or even an economic order dictated by the powerful. However, we realize, especially in the meetings of the great national debate, that the participants are seeking explanations and benchmarks, once the ideological postures that cannot be exceeded are abandoned. We have chosen the activity premium to improve the purchasing power of the most modest workers; They understand this when we take a few minutes to explain the mechanisms, the risks and the constraints. The committee of experts, chaired by Gilbert Cette, explains the risks of an increase in SMIC: it would increase underemployment, lead to a smicardization of society, would not respond to the effects sought to combat poverty. Indeed, only 19% of the direct beneficiaries of an increase in SMIC are poor households, while more than 1 million people paid at SMIC are in the 30% of the most affluent French households. The Committee therefore recommends an increase in the activity premium, as 70 per cent of households receiving it have incomes below the third decile. On 10 December, the President of the Republic announced measures to promote purchasing power for the most modest workers, in particular the increase in the bonus of the business premium of 90 euros per month. A total of 5 million households can now benefit, an additional 1.2 million. As a result, 55% of the total paid persons in SMIC are now eligible, compared to about 45% in 2018. Our majority appreciates a word that our opponents hate: agility. It seeks and implements the tools which it considers most suitable for the desired effects, in particular the expansion of the activity premium, from which more than one million additional French people benefit; the transformation of the CICE into a permanent reduction of employers' burdens, in order to improve our competitiveness; the abolition of the social package to encourage participation and interest in SMEs and TPEs, as well as investment in skills and break-up innovation. It establishes a model of emancipation through work, other than the terms our opponents hate. The latter would want as long as the latter was merely enslaved to a dominant order. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our societies no longer function like this; Our savings, either. We all share the desire to see better paid work. We act with method and discernment to achieve this. This result, we will not impose it, we will win it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u30	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u31	In its 2017 report Sharing wealth with those who create it, Oxfam, a non-governmental organization, reported that the number of billionaires in the world has grown its largest in history, with a new billionaire every two days. Their wealth has increased by $762 billion, seven times the amount that would put an end to extreme poverty in the world. In 2017, 82 per cent of the wealth created in the world benefited the 1 per cent of the richest people, while the situation has not changed for the poorest 50 per cent, who are precisely those who produce this wealth. France is not left behind. In 2017, the richest 10% owned more than half of the national wealth when the poorest 50% shared only 5% of the cake. Thirty-two billionaires now own as much as the poorest 40 per cent of the population. Our country is also Europe's champion in the remuneration of shareholders: in 2017, CAC 40 companies paid them 44 billion euros in dividends. This is three times more than 15 years ago, while the average wage increased by only 14% over the same period. A comparison suffices to give an idea of the extent of these inequalities: 10% of the dividends paid by Carrefour in 2016, which amounted to 523 billion euros, would suffice to ensure a decent standard of living for more than 39,000 textile workers in Bangladesh, where many of the goods sold in these large areas are produced. In 2018, Carrefour's employees went on strike not to claim bonuses but an increase in wages, hirings and improved working conditions. In France, the differences are particularly significant within companies and in their production chain. For example, in less than a day, Sanofi's CEO earns the equivalent of the average annual salary in the company. And this is not a cyclical phenomenon, but a structural one, because, for thirty years in France, the share of labour income in GDP has decreased by 10 percentage points in favour of capital remuneration. The bill presented today by the GDR Group is therefore particularly relevant and welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u32	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u33	And we support it all the more as it joins similar proposals as we made during the presidential campaign and during parliamentary debates since the beginning of this parliamentary term. First of all, this proposal provides for the gradual increase of the gross SMIC up to EUR 1800, which would amount to EUR 1400 net in 2022. It also aims to phase out the drop in employers' contributions voted by this majority in place of the CICE and to create support schemes for TPEs and SMEs. For the State, these support measures have a cost equivalent to the cost of challenging overtime and the activity premium. It is therefore quite bearable for public finances, because they already support it. These measures, on the other hand, are quite in opposition to the Government's policy. The text aims to make the work really pay. The planned increase in the SMIC will indeed improve the living conditions of all persons receiving the minimum wage, in contrast to the rest of the activity premium, adjusted in particular according to the income of the spouse or household, a criterion which de facto penalizes women far more than men. It should be remembered that women's wages in our country are 24 per cent lower on average than men's.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u34	Even in the ministries!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u35	In addition, women account for 80 per cent of part-time work and 97 per cent of home help jobs. It is therefore not out of economic realism that the Government stubbornly refuses to increase the SMIC, nor to protect the TPEs and SMEs, who would in fact be the first beneficiaries of such a measure, by reviving consumption and the activity it would induce, especially since it would be complemented by accompanying measures which it is quite possible to increase in the course of our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u37	No. What motivates the rejection of this bill by the majority of the Republic on the move is the fierce, extremist defence of the selfish interests of a minority of people to the detriment of the majority, the millions of employees at the SMIC: housekeepers, caregivers, interim, precarious, in all sectors of activity – construction, health, education –; These thousands of women and men in yellow vests, who for more than three months now are mobilizing in the streets, around roundabouts, and the millions of French who support their demands; All those who produce wealth, who make our country one of the world's first economic powers, but who are deprived of its fruits. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] To all, it is our responsibility to do justice: wage justice, social justice, justice. It is, I believe, the meaning of this bill that we want to be able to discuss and pass today. We therefore thank our colleagues in the GDR Group once again for submitting it, hoping to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u38	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, the last speaker on the list.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u39	Carlos Ghosn, who came out of prison, was well advised to say: "What is important is the long-term future of the company. » Of this future, 71% of French people doubt because they believe that the public authorities do not sufficiently support medium-sized enterprises in France. However, 90% of respondents in a recent survey believe that the development of medium-sized enterprises is a key element of French economic growth. Unfortunately, our country is lagging behind in this area in relation to our German or Italian neighbours, not only for SMEs, but also for the development of unicorns, these start-ups that are worth more than a billion dollars. In 30 years, France has seen the birth of only four, compared with 57 in the rest of Europe, for example, far behind the United Kingdom. Should we wait, always wait, to see what the CAPTE law will give us? I am thinking here of the four flagship measures intended to help the TPEs and SMEs, aimed at reducing and simplifying the obligations linked to staff thresholds; raising the thresholds for legal certification of accounts to reduce constraints and burdens; increase payments from public purchasers to SMEs and improve payment times; reduce the delays and costs of judicial liquidation. Is that enough? Of course not. Because these measures, like those of the bill, do not allow to help these entrepreneurs, who are literally caught up in taxes of any kind. On January 28, in Béziers, I met entrepreneurs, all leaders of TPE or SME, who expressed a real ras-le-bol: "We feel like victims", "we work for others and not for ourselves", "we are crushed by the charges", "I say to my son: be waged! "Everything pushes us to cheat to make a living, and instead of making us cheat less, we're just being controlled. What will be the next step? We're gonna stop working and we're gonna be paramedics! » Do you find it normal that today, in France, we can hear this from business leaders? At another meeting of business leaders, this time devoted to work-related ill-being, some were weeping. The emergency is here. We need to change the way we look at things, stop with direct aid and give companies the means to their ambitions. Instead, Mr rapporteur, you propose in your Article 3 to set up a support fund for TPEs and SMEs, which should be financed in particular by the State through the provisions of Article 2 providing for the phasing out of reductions in employer contributions. And the same state of mind prevails in Article 4. In short, your only solution is to put companies under the influence of the state, instead of giving them the concrete means to be competitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u40	Instead of letting them die!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u41	You could also have proposed to completely exempt overtime from tax to encourage more work to earn more. But no, as the Government too often does, you choose to answer next to the plaque. You might have thought of increasing the profit ceiling to which the 15% reduced corporate tax rate applies, from €38120 per year to €75000 or even €100,000. This would really encourage entrepreneurs to reinvest in their company and ultimately benefit employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u42	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u43	Let's go now to the minimum wage. This is of course a real subject since in France, more than 12 million people live on about 1200 euros a month. It is of course little, too little to live, and that is, among other things, what the yellow vests came to shout on all the roundabouts of France. What to do with this finding? In your article 1, you propose to upgrade this minimum wage. It's a very good idea, but who's gonna pay? The state, the French, or the companies? Because I would like to believe that, for CAC 40 companies, this is theoretically possible, but for most of the TPEs and SMEs, it is now almost impossible. As too often, you are reluctant to look at reality in the face, to take measures that work, and to imitate our European neighbours, who have long since emerged from the crisis. Unfortunately, you still choose measurements from another time. However, there is an urgent need because employees, like entrepreneurs, can no longer do so. Like farmers, a leader of TPEs or SMEs commits suicide every other day. As for the most resistant, they simply feel disgust and discouragement. We must restore the taste of work to the French and our companies. Instead, this bill calls for more and more assistance. That's why I won't support her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u44	The general discussion is closed. Mr Stéphane Peu, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u45	Without giving a point-by-point answer to all the speakers, I would like to mention at least four ideas, which have been reflected in several of the speeches, including that of the minister. Firstly, the idea that the SMIC and, in general, wages would be the enemies of employment and that one could not go with the other. You are telling us, with supporting figures, that an increase in SMIC would destroy employment. Some even mention thousands of jobs. All this is not corroborated. A study by the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques, annexed to my report, which we wanted to be serious and argued, indicates that an increase in SMIC under the conditions we propose would have relatively minor consequences, "of the thickness of the line". Of course, experts can be talked about against others, but it cannot be said as a revealed truth that there would be an antinomy between the increase in SMIC and a dynamic employment policy. I would add that none of these studies takes into account the positive effects on employment that the revival of consumption caused by the increase in low wages would have on employment. Because when low wages or the SMIC increase, these incomes earn not tax havens or immobile savings but immediate consumption, thus the real economy. This statement, as I think it is, is therefore an easy one, which does not allow us to conduct the debate on the subject properly. Other arguments that you put forward, the CICE and what has almost become a religion: the decrease in the cost of labour. Let us be pragmatic: what are the concrete effects of the CICE? Some consider that an assessment is premature. Nevertheless, France Stratégie, which is not a crypto-communist official but an agency placed with the Prime Minister, believes that the CICE is a failure in terms of job creation: it only notes some jobs saved. The CICE represents a public expenditure of 111 billion euros without consideration or control. Is that reasonable? While controls on the unemployed and beneficiaries of social benefits are increasing, the 111 billion distributed to businesses would be exempt from supervision? It's not serious, it's not correct. With regard to the activity premium, you may have noticed that the yellow vest movement addresses its demands for purchasing power essentially to the State and the Government. In some respects, this is not normal. The more the issue of salary escapes the responsibility of the company, the more you bypass it by preferring to increase the business bonus rather than the SMIC as you did, the more you promote the company's accountability. The more income you link not to the wealth produced in the company but to allowances financed by public money, the more you enter into a logic of assistance of the company from larger and uncontrolled public funds, and the more you discharge the company from the responsibility of wage bargaining that you have, by your laws, spaced four years instead of three. You thus take this debate out of the company, the place where it was to be held, to put it in the public place. I don't think that's a good thing. Finally, you say that the SMIC in France would already be high. But while our country is Europe's second largest economic power, the French SMIC ranks only fifth in Europe. It is not up to our economic power. You systematically choose the comparisons that arrange you and they are not always serious. So you quote the German SMIC. Firstly, Germany has only recently converted to the SMIC in view of the number of poor workers and precarious contracts produced by its economic model. The SMIC is set at 50 per cent of the median wage, compared with 61 per cent in France, but the wage level is much higher. The German SMIC is therefore very close to the French SMIC. On the other hand, in Portugal, SMIC stands at 70% of the median wage, which is certainly lower than in France. The increase in the Portuguese SMIC was part of a demand policy that has produced significant positive effects on employment, unlike your failed supply policy. Finally, let us pause for a moment on the social reality to which the SMIC refers. The SMIC is 175 euros higher than the poverty line. How can we talk about valuing and encouraging work when the latter's remuneration is so low? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Our bill was meant – I'm already talking about it in the past because I'm anticipating the motion to reject it before – it's serious and substantiated. It aims to open an indispensable debate, because for thirty years it has been said that wages are the enemy of employment; For thirty years, mass unemployment has been used as an argument to reduce wages. It is the conscience of our fellow citizens that these policies have failed for 30 years that has led them to go down the street and claim their dues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u46	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u47	Without replying point by point, I would like to go back to two issues that have been discussed and to mention the solutions. With regard to the studies on the link between wage increases and job creation, I take note of the study by the OFCE which you mentioned, rapporteur. But in the economic field in which many things are said, I rely solely on studies that have been published. This means that other economists are scrutinizing them. The results can be seen as convincing because all the experts whose views, including ideological ones, may differ, have reviewed them in a demanding way. There is a near-consensus on the relationship between wage levels and employment. We must not sacrifice to each other, nor conversely. We can all experience it in our daily lives: if the SMIC increases by 18% as you propose, how can the baker or hairdresser maintain their prices? Given their small margins, they will be forced to increase them. The cost of living will be higher and the purchasing power will not necessarily win. Even at the microeconomic level, we understand that there is a balance to be found. Of course, wages need to increase, but the pace of this increase needs to be adjusted. Secondly, you are right to point out that several studies show that the share of wages in value added has fallen in many countries. But this is not the case for France – I refer you to the INSEE studies – from 64.9% in 1990 to 65.3% in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u48	What about the share of the dividends?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u49	It is rather stable over a long period of time since it fluctuated between 62% and 66%, i.e. almost two-thirds. It cannot therefore be said that the share of wages in value added is decreasing in France – it is not increasing either. I come to the other points that can be raised. I am thinking first of all of the important elements for the purchasing power of employees, which are self-interest and participation. An important step is the abolition of the social package on self-employment in companies with less than 250 employees and on participation in companies with less than 50 employees, provided for in the Social Security Financing Act for 2019. Not everyone is equal to their salary. In enterprises with less than 50 employees, only 16% of employees benefit from the sharing of the value produced – this proportion increases with the size of the enterprise. Consistently, those who defend the increase in SMIC should support this provision, which increases the purchasing power of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u50	It's not pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u51	Another important and unknown element is the unprecedented increase in the purchasing power of employees through the abolition of unemployment insurance and health insurance contributions. This is a long-term measure, not a one-time one. For an employee at the SMIC, the purchasing power gain amounts to about 260 euros net per year, or 22 euros net per month. This amount, added to the €23 corresponding to the increase in the SMIC, reflects a significant increase, much greater than in previous years, regardless of the premium of activity that falls under the social justice system. Finally, wage inequality, of which women are victims, is probably one of the greatest inequalities in our country. I said, for forty-seven years nothing has changed. The wage gap between men and women remains 9 per cent for equal work and 25 per cent for the entire career – there is a very strong drop-out at the time of maternity: the career of men progresses while that of women stagnates. I regret that some of you have not passed the provisions of the law on the freedom to choose your professional future that impose an obligation on businesses to achieve equal pay results. Thanks to them, millions of women, regardless of the level of their wages, will either see their chances of promotion grow and their careers grow – and ultimately their wages change – or their wages increase directly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] If I may, we must be consistent and support all government initiatives that improve the purchasing power of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u52	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République en marche group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor. (Applause from the LaREM Group)
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u53	There is no need to be proud to prevent democratic debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u54	Before I give you the reasons for this motion, I would like to remind you of some of the key points on which we agree: yes, rapporteur, our objectives are common; Just like you, we want to fight job insecurity and poverty;
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u55	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u56	Just like you, we want to make sure the work pays;
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u57	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u58	And just like you, we aspire to a society in which all our fellow citizens can live with dignity. Expectations of improving purchasing power are very strong – we are well aware of it – but the expectations of courageous and relevant political action are equally strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u59	But until then, you failed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u60	Because maybe you did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u61	That is why, since the beginning of this Parliament, we have been pursuing a proactive policy to transform and redress the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u62	It doesn't work very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u63	Thus, we share the same goals, but we do not use the same means to achieve them. Let me tell you how our choice to increase purchasing power is more relevant. We have decided to fight mass unemployment, which has been in our society for decades. We are convinced that it is by promoting job creation that we can achieve positive results on wage developments. On the other hand, you propose to act directly on the amount of the minimum wage, by increasing it, over three years, by 18%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u64	There's an emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u65	However, this increase seems counterproductive or even dangerous. The figures of the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics are extremely explicit and alarming: an 18% increase in SMIC would result in the destruction of at least 270,000 jobs, which you will agree is considerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u66	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u67	At first glance, the announcement of a possible increase in the SMIC can overshadow the risks to employment as long as expectations are high. However, these risks are very real and cannot be swept away with a back of the hand, especially when we know the fragility of our economic fabric. However, there is an urgent need to increase the purchasing power of our citizens. To do this, we need to propose concrete, quick and clear solutions. That is why we chose to revalue the activity premium in the framework of the Act on Economic and Social Emergency Measures, which we voted on last December. In concrete terms for an employee living alone, with a SMIC of 1204 euros, the business premium will be 240 euros – his net income will be 1444 euros. In addition, this premium is granted to an additional 1 million beneficiaries since it covers revenues ranging from 0.5 to 1.5 SMIC. It is also intended for public servants and contractors. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this is an increase in purchasing power. Moreover, it offers the advantage of not undermining employment, which is our priority but also that of all French people. It is also a step in favour of purchasing power. The President of the Republic called on companies that could do so to pay their employees a defied end-of-year premium exempt from social security contributions of up to 1000 euros. This premium can be paid until March 31st, so it is not yet too late. Although we have not yet reached this deadline, we can already observe its positive effects. Indeed, studies show a fairly wide use of this system by companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u68	Because studies are already out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u69	While there are differences depending on the size of the enterprises, the effect on the standard of living of the employees concerned is not negligible. You should be glad! In addition, in the explanatory memorandum to your text, you justify the increase in the SMIC that you propose by comparing the evolutions of the French SMIC with the Spanish, Romanian or Polish SMICs. I'm sorry to have to tell you that we can only compare what's comparable! The SMICS of these countries were extremely low, and that is why we have witnessed for years the relocation of many of our companies to these countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u70	And this continues!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u71	In addition, section 1 of your bill does not take into account the nature of the contracts. However, consideration of the amount of remuneration cannot be dissociated from this problem. So the reforms we are undertaking are aimed at promoting stable employment by fighting short-term contracts and avoiding low-wage traps at all costs. [[Mrs Caroline Fiat protested]] I would like to stress once again that, contrary to your proposals, our strategy helps to preserve employment and, above all, to pursue our sustainable employment policy. In addition, through the work orders, we have also strengthened the social dialogue in the company, which is now being facilitated and simplified. The central issue of pay must also be addressed through collective bargaining: it seems to me important to stress this point. With regard to the Enterprise component, you question the effects of the CICE and propose, with Article 2, to remove reductions in social contributions, a much simpler scheme adopted in the latest law on the financing of social security. In Articles 3 and 4, you plan, to compensate, a support fund for TPEs and SMEs, in the form of direct aid, loans and grants granted according to unclear criteria, and a management of this fund at national and territorial level. [[Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Ultimately, the device you are planning to create is even more complex than the CICE! On this subject, I am surprised by the position of some of my colleagues who were at the initiative of this mechanism and who are now denying it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u72	Lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u73	Furthermore, we believe that it is totally counterproductive to go back on the exemptions from charges. Several serious economic simulations, including those of the OFCE, have indicated that the drop in contributions will have a positive effect on job creation. Removing it would result in the destruction of about 310,000 jobs. You will have understood this: contribution relief plays an undeniable moderating role on the cost of work, thus on the creation or safeguarding of jobs. In view of this issue, we have chosen a reduction in the long-term costs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u74	It's not expenses, it's social contributions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u75	...mechanism much less burdensome and more easily accessible for small structures, especially for the associative world, which has few human resources resources. On the other hand, what you are proposing is difficult for us to apply to TPEs and SMEs. In particular, OFCE indicated that the enterprise size criterion was not the most appropriate for such a device. On the one hand, it could violate the rules of competition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u76	It's just capitalist stuff!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u77	... on the other hand, many TPEs and SMEs belong to much larger networks. In addition, through the PACTE law currently under review, we have proposed many measures, such as, Madam Minister, the abolition of the social package, which is in favour of the purchasing power of employees without undermining the employment or activity of companies. I would like to stress that we have also strengthened the resources of the Public Investment Bank. The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future provides for a massive investment in human resources, amounting to 15 billion. Indeed, we believe that it is by raising the skills that we can guarantee the occupational and therefore social integration of our fellow citizens, particularly the most vulnerable of them. To this end, we have made provision for aid to the TPEs and SMEs, which increase access to apprenticeship and vocational training. In conclusion, I would say that our compass remains the same: ensuring that stable employment progresses. This is one of the main objectives of our policy because, as I know, reducing the unemployment rate has a direct effect on wage negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u78	We can't debate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u79	We will therefore continue to work in favour of the purchasing power of the French, in favour of access to stable and permanent employment contracts, in favour of access to training but also in favour of better support throughout the career path. These are key challenges for the future of our country, which we must address while meeting the needs of companies, particularly SMEs and SMEs, which form the economic grid of our territories and are a major asset for the development of employment and the influence of our economy both in France and internationally. We have no right to error. So we will do our best to succeed in this great mission. That is the basis of our commitment and our policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u80	So be it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u81	[[Applause on the benches of LaREM. – Protests on the benches of the GDR group]] For all these reasons, the La République group is in the process of rejecting this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u82	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote, the floor is Mr Pierre Dharréville.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u83	Colleagues, vote on this motion! If you want the debate that drives our country to cross as little as possible the doors of this House, vote on this motion! If you want the wealth created by labor to continue to be shared according to the goodwill of the shareholders, vote on this motion! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] If you don't want to receive any income dividends at the level that was theirs before the 2008 crisis, vote on this motion! If you want to encourage the stubborn refusal to pay for work, the weakening of social rights and social security, the circumvention of wages, vote on this motion! If you want to perpetuate the senseless waste of CICE, let multinationals earn profits and miss an opportunity to support SMEs, vote on this motion! If you want to remain spectators of social dumping, suffer the balance of power of finance and continue to oppose wages and employment, if you think that reducing the quality of jobs and remuneration is a good prospect, vote on this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u84	Vote on this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u85	If you resolve wage inequalities and the weakness of the living power and purchasing power of employees, vote on this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u86	Vote on this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u87	If you want to lower the cost of labour, that is, its remuneration, to the benefit of capital, vote on this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u88	Vote on this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u89	If you do not want to engage in a virtuous economic dynamic that allows everyone to consume better according to their needs, vote on this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u90	Vote on this motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u91	In a word, if you are blindly liberal and anchored to the right, vote on this motion! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] We, who want justice, will not vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u92	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u93	The social crisis in which France has been plunged for almost four months is the concrete translation of the difficult living conditions that our fellow citizens are experiencing. Purchasing power and social justice are the demands that we constantly hear, which come from much further than the yellow vest movement and which go far beyond the scope of the great debate. A great debate that you put up almost as a miraculous solution, even though it does not address the issue at the source of anger: how can you live worthy of the fruits of his work? A great debate that you have proposed throughout France, while in the House you respond, every month, to parliamentary initiatives by motions of rejection that cut short the debates. The question is not even whether or not we are in favour of an increase in SMIC: whether you are prepared to discuss it and whether we can agree on findings or even on solutions. Your motion of rejection prevents both. It leads us to surrender, and is tantamount to declaring that the remuneration of work and support for our small businesses do not deserve to occupy an hour of our time. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This is not the position of our group, which, on the contrary, is concerned about these issues. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore not vote on this rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u94	That's disappointing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u95	Mr Laurent Pietraszewski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u96	Mr Pierre Dharréville, we will vote on this motion to reject because we do not have the same reading of the economy as you do. Of course, we believe that work must pay, but we also believe that it must develop, because the priority is to allow more than 3 million of our unemployed citizens to have one. However, employment is being created in companies, and the policy we are driving is designed to enable our working citizens to see their purchasing power grow. That is why we have recently adopted measures that are extremely favourable to purchasing power by increasing the activity premium. For the same reason, we do not believe that companies should be penalized because, in the open world that is ours, employment in France must be protected. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Pierre Dharréville, ladies and gentlemen, we shall therefore vote on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u97	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u98	Following our colleague Pierre Dharréville, if we are on the right, we are voting on this motion! However, the way in which the problem arises is a little more complicated. And, as I said in the general discussion, the issues under discussion – in particular that of pay for work, because it is necessary for work to pay – are important. I agree with what my colleagues have said: this bill is linked to the idea that we are building our country's economic capacity, as well as to the issues of enterprise, employment, value creation and, incidentally, sharing it. That is why I explained earlier that this bill could be the basis for a debate on the impasse in our economic and social model and the need to recast it. I therefore very much regret that our discussions on these serious issues are thus concluded. In this regard, I note that if the majority had emptied this bill from its substance when it voted against all the articles in committee, the minister had made comments that had been forceful to me and that would have deserved further discussion. With this motion, you prohibit us from doing so and you take away our power. As has been said for other bills, to silence the democratic debate in this chamber, as you are doing, is neither healthy nor good for anyone. Above all, it deprives us of the pleasure we would have had in discussing these economic, corporate and wage issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] We will therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u99	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u100	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support this motion to reject it beforehand. Indeed, if we recognize the need to improve the purchasing power of our citizens, the method chosen in this bill is not adapted to the realities of our country. Even if the increase in SMIC may appear to be the right solution, it would be an economic nonsense, as it would result in a substantial increase in the cost of labour, which would hinder the employment of a whole group of the population, particularly the youngest and unskilled. Our majority made a more consistent choice last December, by voting on the law on economic and social emergency measures, in order to increase remuneration at the level of the SMIC, with an increase in the activity premium and an extension of the scope of its beneficiaries. This approach has been a strong measure for modest households, without increasing the cost of labour. In addition, the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in long-term burdens voted under the last PLFSS – a bill to finance social security – should help to reduce the cost of work and thus boost the recruitment of the least qualified. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Finally, let us recall, this majority has embarked on a massive transformation of investment policy in the skills of workers: the first upswings are very positive. Our opposition is therefore not about the substance, but about the form, or rather the means we give ourselves to improve the daily lives of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u101	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u102	I regret, for the 1.65 million French and French people who are paid to the SMIC, that this debate is not taking place. What idea will they make of what the majority think of them? While the President and his majority are encouraging us to take part in a major debate, why is Parliament excluded from it? As our colleagues have pointed out before us, it is incredible, even when national representation brings together the majority and all the oppositions and everyone has brought their stone to this debate. Our group is in favour of increasing SMIC. We have tried, for the past two years, to open further debates on the subject, which have been systematically rejected. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You think you can get out of the yellow vest crisis at the end of the big debate: I don't think it will be enough. In my department – is it the same everywhere? –, it is between you that you organize the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u103	What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u104	That's why I'm afraid you'll end up with a bad surprise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u105	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u106	Finally, everyone today welcomes the increase in the activity premium on all banks. Well, tonight, my thought goes to those who created it, under the previous quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u107	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u108	The same reason, the same punishment, could I say: as this morning, we would have opposed the substance of this bill, since we believe that the activity premium is probably the best way for work to pay. On the other hand, on the form, it is regrettable that we are once again deprived of a debate. We regret it even more than this morning, because, Madam Minister, you have referred to leads and made proposals that have made us want to continue to debate. Like this morning, therefore, if we join you in substance, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we will not join you in form. Accordingly, we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u109	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u110	I maintain what I said in the general discussion: in France, between 1981 and 2011, the share of wages in value added fell by almost 10% – it is the INSEE that asserts this, the OECD adding that this trend is the same in almost all countries that fall under it. This is important because it allows us to remember that wealth, which is very important in our country and in many others, is unevenly distributed. While it is produced by the majority of employees, it is captured or even taken over by a minority. That is the general context in which we are discussing. There are ways of remedying this. Yet you should be prepared to discuss it and take the necessary steps to distribute it more equitably, so as to give priority to those who produce it. You choose to reject these solutions, gargaring yourself with measures that have led to the political and economic crisis that we are going through. This hallucinating attitude reveals how satisfied you are with yourself, while, for three months, thousands of our fellow citizens have been on the street, supported by millions of French, to protest against the effects of your policy. But that work does not pay is precisely one of their main demands. You are gargaging yourself of the bonus of activity with great effects of eloquence, while you well know that it is not on work, but on national solidarity, that this bonus is based. And, at the same time, you are removing social contributions, which are based on wages, that is, on work. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We will therefore of course vote against this motion of rejection, which you will have adopted not only against our colleagues in the GDR Group, but also against all the French and French who are now mobilizing. I hope they will see it as an incentive to get you back on the street during the next mobilizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u111	As the explanations of vote have been completed, I shall put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u112	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 37 Against 28
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u113	As a result, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u114	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u115	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u116	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Marie-George Buffet and others to abolish the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities (No 805, 1682).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u117	Mrs Marie-George Buffet, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u118	With this text, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left proposes to put an end to the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities – AAH. This bill takes up a request made for years by persons with disabilities and by associations that defend their rights. It is a direct response to the distress expressed by many beneficiaries of the AAH, who rightly challenge us. It is part of the objectives of the Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities. It has now been more than a year since we defended it, the deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left, but also members of this assembly belonging to all sensitivities. More than eighty co-signatories, the consensus of the associations, debates that lead to the end of taking into account the spouse's income in the calculation of the AAH as a priority for persons with disabilities, whether these debates are conducted within or in parallel with those organized by the Government: all this is not nothing and deserves better than a motion of rejection. There is room for discussion and amendment, as has been the case in the Committee on Social Affairs. The core of this bill is obvious: we cannot guarantee the autonomy of persons with disabilities, not only without guaranteeing them financial autonomy through a genuine revalorisation of the AAH, but also without giving full meaning to this allowance, by modernising it, that is, by detaching it from the social minimums and affirming the very specific nature of its purpose, therefore of its calculation. This bill is resolutely forward-looking: it takes account of societal developments and needs; It also aims to stimulate reflection on the right degree of individualisation of rights. Basically, I know that most of us agree that the AHA's calculation system, because it takes into account the spouse's income, is not fair and creates difficult situations. How could it be otherwise when we receive dozens of direct and indirect testimonies explaining to us the dramatic situations of the beneficiaries of the AAH who live in a couple? I quote a few of them, received in recent days: "I am totally dependent on my spouse"; "I am a weight for him"; "This puts our couple at risk because, in addition to my health problems, we have money problems. I'm ashamed to be financially dependent on my companion. I'd like to work, but I can't. It's the triple penalty: sick, no income dependent on my spouse, and problems in the couple. » Leaving persons with disabilities in such a situation of moral and financial insecurity is an infringement of the fundamental right of every individual to enjoy, in the name of respect for his or her dignity, sufficient autonomy to support himself or herself. It is this urgency that needs to be addressed right now; measures should not be deferred to future discussions on the future universal income. The measure we are proposing, which would cost only €360 million, would enable us to start a virtuous cycle of autonomy for people with disabilities today. I would therefore like to respond without further delay to the arguments put forward by the majority against this text during its examination in committee, from both a technical and a philosophical point of view. Opponents and opponents of this bill in our assembly insist that the AAH is a social minimum, a solidarity allowance, and that it must, as such, take into account the income of the spouse, as well as the RSA – an active solidarity income. It is for this reason that the Government has decided to reconcile the calculation of these two allowances for couples. However, asserting that the AAH is a social minimum in the same way as the RSA is tantamount to completely denying the specificity of disability, in particular its often lasting or even irreversible character. The logic of the AAH is completely different from that of the RSA. This was thought of as aid granted for a given period of time in order to accompany the beneficiary to the labour market. The AAH, on the other hand, compensates for the total or partial impossibility for a person with a disability to earn income from his or her work. I was also told in committee that the AAH was not a compensation benefit and that it was better to work on the disability compensation benefit – PCH. However, PCH does not have the same object as the AAH, because it is intended to help beneficiaries in their daily lives, by allowing them to use human or material assistance. Some people also benefit from the AAH without touching the PCH. The revision of the calculation of the PCH would not guarantee financial autonomy. The AAH is therefore neither a compensation allowance as the PCH can be, nor, because of its purpose, a solidarity allowance of the same kind as the others, hence the ambition of the signatories: to make it a specific allocation. Some of our colleagues also justified their opposition by arguing that the AAH was already an advantageous allowance, since the ceiling applied to the beneficiaries of the AAH in couples was higher than for the other minima and that the income taken into account was reduced. I strongly reject this argument. First of all, it is not morally acceptable to qualify the AAH as a "advantageal allowance", when it is known that its amount is more than 100 euros below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u120	Moreover, the calculation methods specific to the AAH are simply justified by the very high costs of disability, which the PCH cannot compensate for on its own. Ultimately, the standard of living of its beneficiaries remains very low. The AAH is therefore in no way beneficial: it simply takes into account the additional expenses related to disability. The bill will also make it possible to give full effect to the increase in the AAH decided by the Government. Indeed, the increase to 900 euros is accompanied by a decrease in the coefficient of taking into account the spouse's income: the ceiling for a beneficiary in a couple is now 19504 euros per year, compared to 20640 euros before 1 November 2018. This reduction in the ceiling took place, I repeat, in parallel with the increase in the AAH decided by the Government, cancelling this increase for the number of beneficiaries in couples. Some 155,000 of them, those who have already reached the ceiling, are excluded from upgrading. There is an opposition that I would call "philosophical" between those who believe that family solidarity must take precedence over national solidarity, which would justify the current method of calculation of the AAH, and those who think, like the signatories of this text, that it is up to national solidarity to guarantee sufficient resources for people with disabilities. That is the very spirit of our French social protection system. By giving priority to family solidarity, it is the very family that is weakened in the case of the AAH. Under the pretext of family solidarity, the current system places beneficiaries of the AAH under guardianship, placing them under the dependency of the spouse. This is not my understanding of solidarity. You can't participate in anything – rent, food, leisure, vacation – because your AAH is reduced or even eliminated. It is a curious conception of autonomy and a deviation of the role of the family, in the name of family solidarity. Finally, this text also aims to begin the fight against the precariousness of persons with disabilities, which is particularly important in our country. One million of the 9 million people living below the poverty line are persons with disabilities. They are particularly vulnerable to the risk of insecurity. The Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – stresses that they face significant difficulties in accessing employment and maintaining employment. According to data published in 2015 by DARES – Directorate of Research Animation, Studies and Statistics of the Ministry of Labour – only 20% of the beneficiaries of the AAH were then employed. Persons with disabilities are also at greater risk of unemployment: on average, they remain 200 more days than other people. The difficulties persist for persons with disabilities: the impossibility of combining certain aids to improve their standard of living; removal of additional resources by the 2019 Finance Act; lower accessibility standards for construction; always difficult inclusion of students with disabilities in school, the status of accompanying students remains insufficient despite a few steps forward in the bill for a school of trust. Fourteen years after the great law of 2005, our country must return to a proactive policy on disability. A motion of prior rejection was tabled by the majority. This is an extremely negative message addressed to men and women, to associations that have been mobilizing for years to eliminate the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. Your refusal to debate until the end of such a sensitive issue is unjustifiable. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against the motion for rejection and to engage in the discussion of the articles. Let the debate take place on this proposal for a law of justice and emancipation, resolutely oriented towards the future, which will allow tens of thousands of our fellow citizens with disabilities to live better, simply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u121	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u122	Thank you for giving me the opportunity, thanks to this bill, to share with you all the Government's full commitment to the participation of persons with disabilities. This five-year priority was once again at the centre of the discussions of the Council of Ministers last Wednesday, February 27, with a communication on the implementation of the Government's road map and progress for people. First of all, I would like to point out that this priority is very concretely reflected in an unprecedented financial effort of EUR 2 billion throughout the quinquennium, in favour of people whose disability is prohibited by a worker or whose capacity to do so is severely reduced. In accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic, the amount of the AAH will be increased to 900 euros per month, on 1 November next. This exceptional upgrading will affect more than one million people. The increase, of 11% over two years, will be financed by a total budget envelope of more than $10 billion in 2019. So what is the meaning of this upgrading and how does it relate to the Government's overall disability policy and our inclusive society project? The question is central to the consideration of your bill, the rapporteur: I would like to clarify it in my remarks. The Government has chosen to make disability the priority of the quinquennium. It is about building a truly solidarity and fraternal society, an inclusive society. It must be based on several pillars, which must be consolidated at the same time. The first pillar is the school, of course, an inclusive school, to which I know your assembly particularly attached. I would like to reiterate that the schooling of disabled students and, more broadly, students with special and specific educational needs is a factor of progress for all. This priority is shared with the Minister of National Education and Youth. The quantitative success is real: at the start of 2018, 340,000 pupils were in school, three times the figure recorded ten years ago. However, a qualitative leap remains to be made in order to promote the success of all students with disabilities. The concertation "together for an inclusive school", which I co-piloted with Jean-Michel Blanquer, mobilized more than 120 participants, from October 2018 to February 2019. It has made it possible to find many ways to simplify the journeys of students and their families, to which the bill for a school of trust has given a first legislative translation. The education of children from the age of three, the continuity of training for young people between the ages of 16 and 18, the improvement of the training of teachers with disabilities, the strengthening of the monitoring teams, the recognition of accompanying persons and the creation of coordinated support centres within the institutions are concrete advances that will make the courses more fluid. You allowed them by your vote on February 19. With the end of the use of assisted contracts to accompany students, starting in 2019, and the upgrading of the profession of accompanying people, who will benefit from more permanent jobs, a new public service is organized. This must allow a more serene 2019 re-entry for a greater number of families. The second pillar of inclusive society is employment. The aim is to combat the scandal of mass unemployment, which affects people with disabilities, who are triple discriminated against because of their disability, age and level of qualification. The reform of the obligation to employ disabled workers, which requires any company with more than 20 employees to employ 6 per cent of persons with disabilities, has been adopted in the framework of the law on the freedom to choose its professional future. It aims to simplify its calculation and reporting, automated by means of the nominative social declaration, and will open up almost 100,000 additional jobs for workers with disabilities. Its entry into force on 1 January 2020 will be accompanied by tools to simplify the calculation of the obligation and smooth the transition costs for businesses. With Muriel Pénicaud, we continue the work to enable employers and people to benefit from increased support for recruitment or retention in employment. The ongoing consultation on the new offer of accompanying services will make it possible to have in the summer very concrete proposals to build on the learning of disabled people, with the support of the generalised disability references in the CFAs – centres for the training of apprentices – as well as on accompanied employment, with the mobilisation of the public employment service. The third pillar is the exercise of full citizenship and, first and foremost, the right to vote. To restore the dignity of all persons with disabilities, in accordance with the repeated requests of the associations of persons with disabilities, the human rights defender and the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights for many years, was a priority for me. The restoration of people in their full citizenship is now effective, thanks to the provisions of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law, which you recently adopted on final reading and which is to be promulgated shortly. Majors protected under guardianship will be able to exercise this new right as soon as they have registered on the lists of electors before 16 May 2019. I count on your collective mobilization, as well as the support of the associations, to support the exercise of this new right, which will allow everyone to participate in the determination of the future of a continent with more than 80 million people with disabilities. The fourth pillar is the simplification of access to rights. Since 1 January 2019, the allowance for adults with disabilities, the recognition of the status of disabled worker or the benefit of an inclusion mobility card can now be granted for life to persons whose disability is not subject to change and reaches a rate of 80%. As far as the youngest children are concerned, the basic education allowance for the disabled child – EEAH – can be awarded up to the child's 20th birthday, while the minimum duration of any supplement to the EEAH is tripled to three years. These are concrete advances, again, which have long been demanded by people with disabilities and their representatives, and which this government is the first to finally implement. The fifth pillar is the development of accessibility for all. It is also time to change the scale in this area to enter into the universal design practiced by our northern European neighbours, which is beneficial to as many people as possible. A major step forward in this area, which has also been claimed for a very long time, is, of course, the obligation to install an elevator on the third floor in new collective buildings. France was among the last countries in Europe to impose an elevator only from the fourth floor. This new obligation will enter into force on 1 October next, at the same time as the provisions of the ELAN law – on housing, development and digital development – aimed at promoting housing 100% scalable, i.e. housing that does not compromise basic accessibility, since it is 100% accessible by a person with reduced mobility, but which is likely to adapt at a lower cost to the needs of people throughout their lives. Let us remember that most of the handicaps are acquired during life. It should also be noted that, since October 2018, telephone services have finally been accessible to deaf and hard of hearing people. Similarly, the accessibility of the emergency number 114, intended for the same public, has been strengthened, as I had the pleasure of checking it during a trip to Grenoble. A society that allows for the full participation of all, from an early age, in school, in business, in the city, a society that facilitates rather than compels, and supports the emancipation of people, is the meaning of government policy. It is therefore far from being the sole issue of the AAH, even though this social minimum has played an essential role in national solidarity since its creation in 1975. It should be recalled that the allowance for adults with disabilities is a social minimum which aims to ensure a minimum of resources for persons who are prohibited from working or whose capacity to do so is severely limited by a disability. The AAH is not intended to compensate for disability, especially since a benefit has been specifically created for this purpose since 2005: the disability compensation benefit. I'll come back. However, the AAH fully integrates the specific difficulties faced by persons with disabilities, in particular in integrating into the labour market. In this sense, the amount of the allowance is higher than other minimums, in particular the income of active solidarity, and the rules of cumulation of the AAH with the income of work are particularly advantageous for small working quotities, in order to take account of the possible fatigue of persons. Like any social minimum, this benefit is linked with family solidarity, in particular the solidarity between spouses recognized by civil law and which constitutes a basic principle of our social model. This solidarity echoes an economic reality, since a number of expenses are shared for the home. It also corresponds to a legal reality, which finds its translation, for example, in the family nature of income tax, which allows me to recall that a person with a disability has an additional half share in the calculation of his or her tax or that of his or her home. Like all social minima, the AAH has a resource requirement. As such, the spouse's resources are taken into account in the calculation of the HFA. Let us not be mistaken: account is taken of the composition of the household in calculating the benefit for the benefit of the individual. Indeed, the ceiling of resources to benefit from the AAH increases with the size of the household. This means that the resource limit is higher when the recipient is in a couple, as it is when the recipient has children. For example, a beneficiary of the AAH as a couple, who does not carry on his own business, may continue to receive this allowance until his spouse's resources reach 1.8 SMIC, i.e. close to 2170 euros per month. In the case where the AAH's assignee works, and not his/her spouse, these same calculation rules allow his/her beneficiary to accumulate his/her full rate allowance in addition to a SMIC. On the other hand, if resources were no longer taken into account at the household level, the same beneficiary could no longer claim only 344 euros per month, which would represent a loss of 556 euros per month for this household. The bill, whose intentions are of course laudable, would thus reduce the amount of the allowance for many households – almost 57000 – since it would only be used as a ceiling for single persons. Paradoxically, this measure, which has a very significant budgetary impact, would result in 57,000 households losing, with monthly losses of up to 600 euros per month, for a cumulative total of 187 million euros. That is why I do not wish to support it and will give an opinion which is unfavourable to its adoption. However, I am not against the fact that we can question the link between family solidarity and national solidarity, but it is necessary to do so in a more global context, as the EESC proposed in its 2017 opinion on the guaranteed minimum social income. The opportunity is given to us by the commitment of the reform on the universal income of activity, within the framework of the strategy to combat poverty, which must meet perfectly universal imperatives, such as the imperative of dignity, in order to enable those who do not have or have little professional income to be adequately protected, the imperative of simplicity of access, in order to combat the non-use of rights, the imperative of transparency, in order to enable the beneficiaries to predict the evolution of their income and encourage them to resume an activity, and the imperative of equity, in order to guarantee equal treatment for persons in equivalent situations. I am not against it either, on the contrary, that we are questioning the way in which disability is compensated through the compensation benefit, which is now available to almost 300,000 people, for a cumulative amount of EUR 2 billion. The Government has demonstrated its desire to make progress in this area by supporting the adoption in this Chamber of the bill advocated by MP Philippe Berta to remove the age-barrier of 75, which today prevents older people from applying for the PCH for a previously acquired disability. In this regard, I regret that no representative of the Senate majority has been able to convince senators of the value of registering and voting this proposal, which represents real progress for individuals. But we want to go further, because while the PCH represented a major step forward for people when it was implemented in 2006, it is also a complex service, which crystallises a number of criticisms, as the report "Easier Life" pointed out. So I wanted to put this performance to rest on the occasion of the 2018-2019 National Conference on Disability. The roadmap of the national working group, chaired by Marie-Pierre Martin, first vice-president of the Maine-et-Loire department council, which is expected to be completed by the summer, is clear. It should make it possible to simplify the PCH, to take better account of the needs related to the psychological handicap, to promote parental support and to support a reduction of the remainder on technical aids, in conjunction with the work initiated on reimbursable products and benefits. Once again, these are major issues for people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have referred to benefits, devices and figures. But beyond a simpler and more equitable access to these benefits and compensations, you will have understood that supporting the autonomy of persons with disabilities and their full participation in the heart of inclusive society, which the Government is currently building, is my major subject. It is a project that wants to recognise citizens with disabilities as full citizens and not individual citizens, a project that favours pragmatism and efficiency in changing their daily lives, in accordance with their expectations, and which, again yesterday in the media, was recalled by the founder of a society of services to people, himself in a situation of disability, a project that I want to believe brings us together widely. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is why I look forward with confidence, while repeating my unfavorable opinion on this bill, to the support of your assembly to co-build a society of living together, which makes full room for people and their difference.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u123	In the general debate, Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u124	In our country, 12 million people have a disability, i.e. one in six people. It is a reality that is not envisaged to its right extent and yet, if we did, it would change the face of society, it would change our gazes, our relationship to difference, our relationship to solidarity, our ways of living together – not just for those 12 million of our fellow citizens, who want to live fully, dignifiedly, take all their place, participate, who want to grow a right to autonomy, to equality. There is still much to be done, because people with disabilities are often struck twice as much by the difficulties of everyday life, by the social crisis, by the weakening of the public service. The unemployment rate, for example, is twice as high among persons with disabilities as in the rest of the population. Of the 9 million people below the poverty line, 1 million are also disabled. National solidarity must therefore be there. The allowance for adults with disabilities, together with the disability compensation benefit, is one of the tools of this solidarity. At the end of 2017, 1.13 million people were eligible for this allowance. This financial assistance, which provides people with a minimum income, provided that they meet the criteria of disability, age, residence and resources, is now insufficient: it is, in fact, 12.3 per cent below the poverty line, even though the beneficiaries bear the remaining expenses and the substantial costs associated with their situation. The effect of the increases you have programmed to bring it to 900 euros has – alas – been significantly mitigated by other measures, starting with unindexing. Beyond these issues, the bill, which Marie-George Buffet has been carrying for many months with the commitment of many parliamentarians on our benches, tends to redress an incomprehensible and unjustifiable injustice. It responds to an urgent need for the dignity, independence and autonomy of persons with disabilities. It requires a right to emotional life, a right not to be hindered by resource constraints, a right not to be financially dependent on a spouse or spouse, a right to autonomy in the couple – yes, for persons with disabilities too, a universal, individual right to equality in the couple. On the eve of March 8, this should talk to us, because to make this allowance, this right, dependent on the spouse's income is to add to the disability, that is to highlight the disability. This bill, drafted more than a year ago, is the long-awaited response to a long-awaited request from associations representing persons with disabilities and the beneficiaries themselves. I want to pay tribute here to the remarkable work they do on a daily basis, and to warn against any attempt to discredit them, to bypass them, to deny the forms of social organization, to address only the individual taken in isolation, to the individual alone in the face of the State, alone in the face of society, alone in the face of its destiny. Let us discuss broad guidelines, but recognize the scope of collective reflection and action, of popular education, and their contribution to social and democratic progress. Firstly, this proposal is an urgent measure to combat the risk of precariousness and dependency, sometimes isolation, to which people with disabilities are highly exposed. Taking into account the spouse's income in calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities deprives tens of thousands of people of their own resources, for the sole reason that they live with the person they love. Indeed, the payment of the AAH becomes degressive from a spouse's income threshold of 1126 euros monthly and ceases beyond a ceiling of 2200 euros monthly. The increase in the amount of the AAH, which we have welcomed, has been accompanied by mechanisms depriving 25% of the beneficiaries of the allowance, or 250,000 people, on the grounds that they live in a couple. Therefore, the spouse's income should no longer be taken into account in the adjustment of this allowance. Let us not be mistaken: the AAH is not a social minimum: it is an autonomy allowance. Why, therefore, would it be conditional on income other than that of the beneficiary? Secondly, it is time to reactivate national solidarity. We must stop constantly calling for forced family solidarity, which symbolizes a dangerous step backwards for our society and increases social inequalities. The cause of persons with disabilities places society in the face of the requirement of equality and assigns to public mechanisms the social objective of the autonomy of the person. Disability is added to all inequalities, to all the difficulties of life; It sometimes leads to a concrete, material difficulty, concerning, for example, the installation of a couple. In addition, to impose a reduction in resources, when choosing a common life, it is to proceed in the worst possible way by raising questions of money, at the risk of discouraging people who love to settle together. It is time to adopt new measures of social progress, allowing the beneficiaries of the AAH to no longer depend on the income of their spouse, because such dependence undermines their dignity even in the intimacy of their couple. This bill is intended to be a symbol of emancipation; it regards any beneficiary as a person in his own right, having an individual right, therefore full and entire, to autonomy and independence, up to and including the couple. Thirdly, it is an objective measure, which responds to the incomprehension of the beneficiaries. A 23-year-old woman who has been in a wheelchair since she was 15 years old told me: "If I decide not to live alone, I will be penalized, which is not fair. Do I have to decide not to live as a couple to move towards financial autonomy? Do I have to hide? The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by France, recognizes the right to autonomy. How can we not see that the conditions of resources as defined constitute a huge paradox, are contrary to the very principle of allocation? How can autonomy be envisaged without financial autonomy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u126	How can we accept that a person with a disability is confronted with the dilemma of living alone and enjoying national solidarity, or living as a couple and being penalized financially? Persons with disabilities and their loved ones, for whom this situation constitutes a form of humiliation, have considerable expectations. A concrete and immediate opportunity to change the lives of thousands of people is open to us today. In his policy speech on July 4, 2017, the Prime Minister said: "The inclusion of persons with disabilities is one of the priorities of the quinquennium. Persons with disabilities and accompanying persons have the right to national solidarity. They need much more, and they can bring us more. I have enough disagreements with the Prime Minister not to add to it. I found that intention rather good, considering that it could be applied in a relevant way to the matter before us. However, members of the majority have developed theories to explain to us the great coherence of the system and to some extent justify what cannot be. We must not look at things under this prism but, on the contrary, change our logic to choose equality, right and dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I would prefer you to tell us that you do not have the necessary funds, even if I would continue to disagree with you. Without going back to our debates this morning, I would add that you could have considered other budgetary choices, paying a little more attention to this priority. We are facing a real situation of discrimination, which we must put an end to without hesitation, so that love can live!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u127	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u128	The removal of the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the HFA is a long-standing request, which appears to be more than legitimate. Indeed, we can only agree that taking these incomes into account does not promote self-reliance. How, however, can we aim for the autonomy and inclusion of persons with disabilities without providing them with financial autonomy? I think we are all aware of the limitations of the current method of calculation of the AAH. The modification responds to two issues: on the one hand, a symbolic issue, relating to dignity and individual recognition; On the other hand, a more pragmatic issue, linked to purchasing power. Both are of crucial importance. The first issue has been related to the dignity of these people: it is simply a question of ending the financial dependence in which the current method of calculation of the AAH necessarily places its beneficiaries. No longer taking into account the spouse's income would be to recognize the full individuality of those who apply for the benefit. As we all know, this method of attribution leads to absurd situations, so much so that some people give up getting married or living together so as not to lose the benefit of their allowance. We know the figures: the AAH becomes degressive from an income threshold of 1126 euros per month, and is extinguished beyond a ceiling of 2200 euros. The unfairness of this method of calculation continues to be denounced. The individualisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities has mobilized the persons concerned and the associations for many years. It is for this reason that the bill before us, which I have co-signed, along with other members of the Liberties and Territories Group, is the subject of a broad consensus – its trans-party character is not to be demonstrated. Beyond the symbol, it is – this is the second issue – to economically support people who are at high risk of insecurity – among the most important in France. We keep repeating this: people with disabilities are more affected by poverty, as a result of difficulties in accessing or maintaining employment. For example, of the 9 million people living below the poverty line, 1 million are disabled; Only 20% of AAH beneficiaries work. Our colleague Marie-George Buffet, who is the author of this bill, rightly pointed out that being in a situation of disability is more exposed to poverty and a low standard of living. We must bear in mind this sad fact when we approach the issue of the AAH. This was probably the case with the Government when it established – as you recalled, Madam Secretary of State – the struggle for autonomy and inclusion of persons with disabilities as one of its priorities at the beginning of the quinquennium. However, the facts do not do justice to the stated ambitions. Indeed, the measures taken so far have tended to further threaten the often fragile living standards of the persons concerned, and even to limit the scope of the Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities. I am thinking, for example, of the increases in the allowance for adults with disabilities, which will amount to 900 euros at the end of 2019 – always below the poverty line. Worse still, as a result of the changes in the award criteria, many people will be mechanically exceeding the ceiling. For a beneficiary as a couple, the ceiling now stands at EUR 19504 per year, whereas, without these measures, it should have reached EUR 20640 by 1 November 2018. This decrease in the ceiling, which will continue, therefore cancels the effects of the increase in the AAH amount for couples. I am also thinking of aligning the additional resources, equal to 179 euros, with the amount of the increase for autonomous living – which amounts to 104 euros – which represents a decrease in income of 75 euros, on the grounds that the coexistence of these two schemes would undermine the legibility of rights. In parallel with these measures, the current government, like the previous ones, continues to use the same argument: the allowance for adults with disabilities is a subsistence income, a social minimum, a bit like the RSA, which ultimately justifies the application of a family solidarity mechanism. Another argument is that this allowance is not intended to compensate for disability. This is not questionable, since since the law of 2005, this compensation is ensured by the payment of the disability compensation benefit, which has replaced the compensation allowance for third persons: it is paid by the departments and benefits more than 335,000 people. Unlike the AAH, the PCH is customized, adaptable to needs and calculated without resource conditions. Be careful, however, not to mix everything together: the PCH takes the form of a reimbursement of expenses related to the loss of autonomy – 90% of which are human assistance; It is intended to help the beneficiaries to carry out the acts of daily life, allowing them to avail themselves of human or technical assistance. Thus, one can perceive the AAH without benefiting from the PCH: this is the case, in particular, of people suffering from mental pathologies who are autonomous in the acts of daily life without being able to engage in a professional activity. The AAH is used precisely to compensate for the impossibility of working because of disability. In order to collect the HFA, a disability rate of at least 80% is required, or between 50% and 79% if it is accompanied by a solid and lasting restriction on employment that cannot be compensated by the adjustment of the position. It is therefore intended to compensate for the fact that a person, because of his or her disability, is not in a position to earn sufficient income from his or her activity. In this sense, it does not respond to the same logic as active solidarity income, which is conceived as temporary support for labour market integration. Moreover, benefit from the AAH is rarely temporary: it is renewed in 85% of cases. It is mainly for this reason that it is not a benefit like any other, since it often reflects an irreversible situation in which return to employment or occupational integration are not possible. It is also for this reason that we believe that the path that the Government seems to be following is not the right one. Indeed, in view of the creation of the universal income of activity, you have confirmed, Madam Secretary of State, that the AAH would be the subject of the recast applied to the social minimums. In view of the specific features of this service, this does not seem to me to be appropriate. To consider the AAH as an income from existence, not to say survival, is a mistake. The two objectives we set ourselves through this bill – individual recognition of beneficiaries' rights and economic support – are obviously linked. Unfortunately, both the Government and the majority do not seem inclined to move in this direction. But it is not because today the AAH is defined in a certain way, that we must not do anything and not change anything. Our role, as legislators, is not to perpetuate indefinitely what has been done so far, it is, if necessary, to amend incomplete or obsolete laws. In this case, the law is inadequate for the evolution of our society, which can no longer afford to base the financial autonomy of people with disabilities on family solidarity. I would add that the degressivity of the allowance could give rise to questions if the spouse's income was no longer taken into account. It goes without saying that, behind financial autonomy, there are also issues of social justice. The fact that the most affluent households are treated in the same way as the most fragile and modest can only lead us to question ourselves. That is why, while we are in favour of the scheme proposed by this bill, it still seems to us useful, if not necessary, to begin a reflection on the establishment of a threshold from which the spouse's income would be reinstated in the calculation of the AAH. This is not the first time that our Assembly has been working on this subject: I very much thank Mrs Marie-George Buffet and our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for taking the initiative again to table this bill, which many of us, on all political sides, have co-signed. First of all, I was pleasantly surprised to see that the majority group had not tabled a point of order on this text, but this morning it was not, and I was deeply disappointed. I thought, despite your deletion amendments, that we were finally going to be able to discuss this crucial issue. It is very regrettable that this is not possible. The members of the Liberties and Territories Group, as well as many of our colleagues here, I think, would share my disappointment if the motion to reject was adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u129	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u130	The proposal for a law of the GDR group aims to eliminate the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. I would like to welcome this initiative, which allows us to raise a major issue, that of disability. The improvement of the lives of persons with disabilities requires that all their needs and expectations be taken into account, in particular with regard to the assistance they receive. However, the questions that arise are not limited to the method of calculation of the AAH. The allowance for adults with disabilities is a financial aid which, as has already been said, aims to ensure that beneficiaries have a minimum income. It is granted subject to the criteria of disability, age, residence and resources. The amount is in addition to any other resources of the person with a disability. This is therefore a subsidiary allowance, a social minimum which takes into account the resources of the household, including the spouse's income, and the number of dependent children. In this context, a specific reduction of 20% on the spouse's income from work is taken into account in the calculation of the AAH. We want to defend and maintain this principle of family solidarity, especially since the deconjugation of the AAH that you propose would be unfavourable to many beneficiaries. AAH is essential for people with disabilities. This is why its amount will be increased by 11 % between 2017 and 2019, in accordance with the campaign commitments, to the sum of 900 euros per month. The State's total investment will amount to €2 billion by 2022. In this context, we have also chosen to follow the recommendations of the report "Easier Life" prepared by Mr Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, and Mr Jean-François Serres, member of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. The measures proposed in this report are aimed at facilitating the lives of persons with disabilities with a permanent disability rate of at least 80%. Thus, we have made administrative simplification that allows them to declare their situation once in their lifetime, as opposed to nine to ten times before. This major simplification for the beneficiaries frees up time for the carers and the actors of the departmental houses of disabled people, allowing them to focus on their role of accompaniment and advice with a view to better integrating disabled people into working life. This time found by the various stakeholders allows us to work on inclusion, an essential and primordial issue that requires physical support and financial support. It is through integration that we can develop autonomy and emancipation. People with disabilities want to follow a real life course: that is why we must pursue a policy of school, vocational and social inclusion. Emancipation through work is made possible by integration into the school environment. We must help people with disabilities to gain access to work in companies in order to ensure that they are truly integrated into the labour market. That is why we have decided to introduce disability references in companies. When the disability is heavier and does not allow access to suitable work in a company, the person can be referred to a job in a suitable company or in a work-help establishment and service – ESAT. As such, we have proposed the creation of 40,000 jobs in an adapted company by 2022, in addition to the 23,000 existing positions. Where inclusion through work is not possible, it is possible to assist persons with disabilities through the payment of a disability compensation benefit. This aid is the translation of the right to compensation, which is not the AAH. It is intended to finance the needs of persons with disabilities in relation to their life project, namely human, technical and housing assistance. The modalities for allocating the PCH must evolve and improve in order to reduce, among other things, disparities between different departments. At the same time, the Government had established the National Conference on Disability to better address the needs of persons. As the Secretary of State pointed out, a national working group was set up under the chairmanship of Mrs Martin, Vice-President of the Maine-et-Loire department council – my department – whose action I welcome. In September 2018, the President of the Republic presented the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty. In this context, the creation of a universal income for activity has been proposed. This universal income of activity would result from a merger of as many social benefits as possible. As such, an institutional and citizen consultation will be launched in April 2019 to define the contours of this new system of social minima. It is important to change the representation of the disability in order to allow each person to follow a life course adapted to his or her needs while accompanying him or her towards more autonomy in the realization of his or her projects. Since 2017, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has been encouraging us to rethink disability policy in order to build a truly inclusive society. Catalina Devandas Aguilar, UN Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, said: "To achieve the equality of citizenship of persons with disabilities, France must end segregation and move towards inclusive services and support in the community. » [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Today, we want to move from a protective system – sometimes too protective – to an inclusive system that allows all persons with disabilities to be respected, to assert their dignity and to emancipate themselves in order to gain social, professional and financial autonomy as much as possible, alone or accompanied by benevolent caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u131	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u132	The purpose of this bill is to eliminate the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. More than 205000 couples are affected by this measure. Disability is not chosen, it is suffered on a daily basis. Every day is a battle. Improvements have appeared since January 1, 2019. Indeed, each of France's 965 apprentice training centres now has the obligation to appoint a disability reference. With 19% of people with disabilities unemployed, this measure makes sense and I welcome it. However, persons with disabilities still face problems in finding suitable housing, employment or training. In addition, real areas of shadow as well as deep concerns have emerged since the recent enactment of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. In order to promote the direct employment of persons with disabilities, the law provides that subcontracts concluded by enterprises or communities with employment-assisted establishments, suitable enterprises and self-employed persons with disabilities may no longer be included in the 6% quota. This is not a step in the right direction, as contractors will no longer be encouraged to subcontract in the same way. The associations are very concerned and fear that this will undermine the work of the 250,000 people with disabilities who now have access to employment through specific support from ESATs or adapted companies. I am in favour of inclusion and work in an ordinary environment, but we all know that not all people with disabilities will be able to reach this ordinary environment. Once again, the most severely disabled will be affected by this measure. ESATs and adapted enterprises are key players in the employment policy of disabled workers. The individualisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities has mobilized the persons concerned and the associations for many years. This is a crucial issue, as the amount currently varies according to the other resources and income of the recipient's spouse. The payment of the AAH becomes degressive from 1126 euros of income for the spouse of the beneficiary and is completely abolished if the income exceeds 2169 euros per month. While the principle of this allowance is to guarantee the autonomy of adults with disabilities, this degressive payment rule effectively creates a financial dependency between spouses. In addition, although the AAH increased in 2018 and is expected to increase further in 2019, this measure will not benefit recipients living in couples. Prior to 1 November 2018, the latter could receive the AAH upgrade if their resources and those of their spouses did not exceed EUR 1620 per month, twice the maximum amount of the AAH. The revalorisation paid was then proportional to the difference between 1620 euros and the couple's resources. By the end of 2019, as a result of the increase, this ceiling should have climbed to 1,800 euros, but it will be frozen to 1620 euros as the multiplier coefficient will be reduced from 2 to 1.8. Thus, no one will see their HFA decrease, but no increase will occur for couples whose resources exceed this limit. The beneficiaries of the AAH, whose couple has a level of resources of less than 1530 euros, will experience a total increase of 90 euros. With resources between 1530 and 1620 euros, the revalorisation will be partial. In other words, by upgrading the AAH, the Government will ensure that many people mechanically reach a ceiling preventing future revalorization. It was only one of the various budget passes that the Government carried out. I am also thinking of the merger of the additional resources and the increase for autonomous life, on the grounds that the coexistence of these two arrangements would undermine the legibility of rights. Only the increase in self-employment will remain, which will undoubtedly lead to a decline in income for the disabled person. Madam Secretary of State, this is not the first time that we have voted in favour of abolishing the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. Already, in April 2016, during the previous quinquennium, on the occasion of the presentation of the Sirugue report on social minima, my colleague Gilles Lurton spoke in the Committee on Social Affairs to ask for this abolition. The author of the report had then acknowledged the merits of the request. Madam Secretary of State, taking into account the spouse's income in calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities is a real injustice to people who are physically impaired and, above all, who have not made the choice to live with this disability. No one chooses to be locked in a body that no longer functions well enough to occupy a workplace. The allowance for adults with disabilities is clearly a specific allowance for persons with disabilities and must therefore be subject to specific rules. In response to this proposal, the Government prides itself on having increased the amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities. Of which: we approve of this measure. But we regret that this increase does not benefit more people who live in a relationship. How can we accept that a couple, one of whose members is disabled, must now separate so that they can receive the allowance to which they are entitled because of their disability? How can we accept that a person with a disability also becomes dependent on his or her spouse, regardless of the composition of the couple? How can we admit that such humiliation comes in addition to the humiliation sometimes felt because of disability? You propose inclusion but, paradoxically, you are about to sweep away this bill with a back of your hand. After deleting, one after another, the articles in this text in the Committee on Social Affairs, you have tabled a motion of rejection, as you are used to doing, when we would have wanted to debate these articles and submit our ideas to you in order to improve the conditions for payment not only of allowances for adults with disabilities, but also of disability pensions. The system is too unfair. I'm thinking about that woman who just wrote to me. While an accident had made it difficult for her to resume her work, eventually, thanks to many efforts and an extraordinary will, she managed to do so, three quarters of her time. His salary is reduced to 1500 euros, supplemented by a disability pension of 500 euros. Because of the quality of his work and his efforts, his boss decided to pay him a bonus of 500 euros, which had no other consequence but the abolition of his 500-euro disability pension a month later. What a further humiliation! These, like so many others, are the subjects that we would have wished to address in this discussion, which will again be rejected. To justify the rejection of each of the articles in the Committee on Social Affairs, you considered that the AAH is an improved and adapted RSA for people with disabilities, not a financial compensation for disability: it was therefore not intended to be individualised. However, the AHR is temporary assistance to facilitate return to work, while the AAH is financial assistance related to inability to work. Therefore, in my view, it is not possible to equate the AAH with an RSA. You have also tried to justify the rejection by arguing that the individualisation of this allowance would deny the family situation of the beneficiary and that family solidarity should prevail over national solidarity. This is a fine proof of hypocrisy on the part of a majority so quick to defend the source sampling. For all those with disabilities who look at us today, unfortunately we can only regret it. However, one day will come when, through political struggles, we will be able to win our ideas and allow people with disabilities to enjoy the fullness of their rights. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, GDR and SOC groups]] The Republican Group, which remains deeply committed to the family and to the concept of a home, nevertheless considers that the case of persons with disabilities requires special consideration – and that is why I myself co-signed this bill. I would therefore regret the adoption of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u133	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u134	The bill by our colleague Marie-George Buffet, which we are considering today, places the subject of disability at the heart of our debates. If the latter are always an opportunity for lively and passionate exchanges, it is worth recalling that, on all the benches of this House, situations of disability and these daily life are taken very seriously and that no one can preempt them. Disability calls for a global and systemic reflection on a new society of sharing and inclusion, on the common good of a community of life and people in relation to inclusion and protection. More specifically, this text invites us to reflect and decide on the removal of the inclusion of the spouse's income in the calculation of the allowance for adults with disabilities. The two chambers of national representation – our assembly and the Senate – have had the opportunity to address this issue on several occasions. Last October, the upper house rejected this text quite broadly, as the Social Affairs Committee of the National Assembly did two weeks ago. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement has not voted in favour of this bill and will do the same today, for this main reason that the allowance for adults with disabilities is a social benefit that ensures a resource floor without compensatory logic. It responds to a logic of family solidarity which is a component, not an alternative, but a constituent of our national solidarity, to which our group is fundamentally attached. This is why the AAH falls within the scope of solidarity between spouses and is linked with it. This is a basic principle of our social model and of our national solidarity, which gives priority to the mobilization of family resources. Like any other allowance, the AAH is familyized and differential, and increases according to the size of the household to which the beneficiary belongs. It is a principle of responsibility and fairness. In addition, cumulative mechanisms and allowances are provided for the autonomy of individuals, such as the limitation of the resource base to resources subject to income tax only, or a 20 per cent reduction mechanism for taking into account the spouse's income, which limits the household's tax burden. The AAH is therefore fully in a solidarity logic, and not in a logic of individualised compensation or financial compensation, which is, as we have pointed out, that of the compensatory disability benefit, created in 2005 and consisting of aid in kind, universal and granted without conditions of resources to meet the expenses associated with the absence or loss of autonomy. However, it is on this lever that we need to engage in deep reflection and structured reform. Indeed, the functioning of the PCH seems too complex and many inconsistencies and blockages have emerged since its inception. It would therefore be appropriate to make the necessary adjustments so that the PCH system could be more legible, effective and fairer, particularly in terms of parenting and child care. We therefore understand the aim of this bill to give flexibility to the calculation of the allowance, in order to ensure more financial autonomy for beneficiaries living in couples. Allowing people with disabilities to have sufficient resources to live decently is obviously a priority and a collective responsibility. We believe, however, that we cannot question the main principles of the French system of solidarity and that there are many other means of achieving this aim. For example, and to echo what has already been mentioned in this rostrum, we voted for the successive increase of the AAH – from 50 euros per month in 2018, and then 40 euros in 2019 – during the examination of the last two social security financing bills, in accordance with the announcements of the President of the Republic. This is a major effort, of almost EUR 2 billion over five years. The amount of the AAH will thus reach 900 euros per month in November, making it the highest social benefit, which is quite normal, because it is a fair adjustment to the needs. Moreover, in the context of the reform of the universal income of activity, the reform of all social minimums, and therefore the AAH, will be discussed. The aim will be to ensure the existing system while finding appropriate ways to ensure that the new system is truly inclusive and allows for greater autonomy. The existing ceilings could thus be re-evaluated in order to facilitate the couples' lives of the beneficiaries. Our group will get involved so that the new system that will be introduced will be further adjusted to the ambition of an inclusive society for people with disabilities. It will favour a systemic and global approach, not just individual ones. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The MODEM and related groups will therefore not be able to vote for this bill, given its remoteness from the principle of national and family solidarity, which is one of the pillars of French society. We fully trust Ms.Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State, to conduct disability policy with coherence and ambition, as she has done since the beginning of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u135	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u136	Disability is a subject that we, as legislators, must call for a benevolent approach, particularly concerned with social justice. While rapprochement with the common law must be an ideal objective, it must not, however, be transformed into an injunction that would become a source of inequality and injustice. This is the nature of the subject we are discussing today and which is put on the agenda of our debates thanks to the pugnacity of our colleagues in the GDR Group and the rapporteur for the text before us, Marie-Georges Buffet, whom we thank. This is also one of those who naturally meet a trans-party membership, which explains why this bill is co-signed by nearly eighty parliamentarians from all political sensitivities. Indeed, the AAH should not be taken as a social minimum like another, which, like other benefits, should be familyized. It is, in fact, an aid which is not temporary, because of the degree of invalidity of the persons who receive it, and which represents a financial resource for them. The abolition of taking into account the spouse's income in the calculation basis would therefore be merely an act of social justice aimed at the autonomy of the persons, especially since the resource limit retained is not very high and it greatly reduces access to this benefit. Of the 1.13 million beneficiaries of the AAH, 250,000 persons living in a couple are penalized and, in addition, excluded from the adjustment to the benefit. Even if this benefit is increased and the amount is increased to 900 euros, living with the AAH means staying below the poverty line. For people with disabilities, exercising their citizenship and their dignity is often part of the daily struggle. In a 2018 opinion, the rights defender denounced the reform as penalizing persons with disabilities who wanted to start a family. It stated that it contravenes the provisions of article 23 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states: "States Parties shall take effective and appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against persons with disabilities in all matters relating to marriage and family". We are dealing here with the paradox of the policy that you are leading. On the one hand, you are announcing your willingness to promote autonomy and the exercise of full citizenship with measures that we support, such as the right to marry, to pacify and, for adults under guardianship, to divorce without judicial authorization or to exercise their right to vote. On the other hand, however, you persist in wanting to maintain in a state of financial and moral guardianship the recipients of the AAH living as a couple, with all the possible consequences that we know when they are vulnerable people. This dependency is perceived as a shame and a sense of triple punishment, as these people combine to be weakened by illness or disability, to have no income and to be dependent on the spouse. It is an attack on the dignity and autonomy of individuals, which can also be a source of tension in the couple. Moreover, on the eve of 8 March, I would like to point out that, especially for women, economic dependence is a factor of vulnerability, which particularly exacerbates the risks of domestic violence. We are far from the goals of social emancipation, which your majority have been the standard bearer for twenty months. We can also regret that the aspirations of persons with disabilities were largely absent from the questionnaire opening the great national debate desired by your Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u137	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u138	This is all the more true since the theme that comes first of the issues emerging from the list of disability claims is precisely this reform of the rules governing the accumulation of the spouse's income with the AAH, which shows that this situation is perceived as a very great injustice by our fellow citizens with disabilities. However, you cannot sidestep this resource issue, as you did, Madam Secretary of State, during your interview on LCI last February or as the majority did during the committee debates. The arguments put forward to justify the rejection of the text seemed to us to be insufficient in view of the importance of the subject. You will not, moreover, be able to prevent this issue from being introduced by the associations on the agenda of the next national conference on disability, which is due to take place in a few months' time. We could have hoped for a breakthrough on your part after our work in committee, but the majority group has once again chosen the tactic of emptying this bill from its substance, by tabling four amendments to delete its articles, and even a motion to reject the text beforehand. We say to you, Madam Secretary of State: permanent communication cannot serve as a political balance sheet. However, for the past twenty months, all the warning signals are on the way to the policy implemented. As far as the lives of persons with disabilities are concerned, we are witnessing an insidious shift in national solidarity towards family solidarity. The state's getting rid of families. The associations, which denounce this shift, have recently lodged a collective complaint before the Council of Europe, in order to have the French State condemned for violating the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities and to see their claims concluded. Indeed, the Government's priorities are clearly focused on reducing public spending. Thus, the measures taken for access to rights and the upgrading of the AAH cannot compensate for all those which are gradually reducing the incomes of persons with disabilities and distorting the 2005 law, and which, for the State, are all financial receipts of which we do not know the figures. Examples include the unindexing of the AAH's increase in inflation and the abolition of its additional resources, the exclusion of the active allowance for holders of invalidity pensions for industrial accidents or occupational diseases – AT-MP – after a one-year stay, the reduction of 10% of disability pensions, the increase in the costs of guardianship of accompanied adults, the reduction of EUR 5 of the APL – the personalized assistance to housing – and the abolition of universal accessibility by Article 18 of the ELAN law, recognised as discriminating by the rights defender. These declines in income are all the more anxious for people with disabilities as they are part of the debate on the counterpart to social assistance, which claims to condition employment aid. Moreover, the construction of the future universal income of activity, says RUA, will probably include the AAH in the list of the various social minimums that will be recast in this flat-rate aid: we will be very attentive to this future construction site and its consequences for the disabled. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] When Christophe Sirugue, in his report, re-thinks social minima with a view to their simplification in a new architecture, his aim is not only to penalise no beneficiary but also to make an improvement on their condition. It would therefore be fair to retain the specific character of the AAH by removing it from the list of social assistance which will be merged into the RUA. In this sense, we agree with the rapporteur's observation that it is necessary to move from the concept of social minimum to an allocation of autonomy and independence. That is why the Socialist Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u139	[[At 17:55, Sylvain Waserman replaced Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u140	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u141	If there is a subject that brings us together on these benches, it is the one of disability. We may differ on the effectiveness or relevance of our public policies on disability; Nevertheless, we all agree on their essential dimension and on the need for a generous, ambitious and proactive policy in this area. This commitment is based on a demand: solidarity. It is it that holds our society as a whole, gives it its humanity and cohesion, without reducing it to an aggregate of individuals who associate with each other only out of interest. In this sense, it is indeed one of the pillars of our republican pact. It is the greatness of our institutions that we must take strong action in this area and protect more those of our fellow citizens who are in a situation of fragility or victims of the injustice of nature. One of the demands emanating from roundabout gatherings, moreover, expresses a growing need for humanity in social and economic relations, translating into watermark the fear of a world where one no longer speaks because one no longer understands one another, a world in which the only gauge would be monetary value. To consider the other in all its humanity is therefore the whole purpose of our policies on disability. Without eroding the dimension of suffering and the specificity of disability experience, we must seek to change the perspective on disability so that each member of society, regardless of their abilities or level of disability, is perceived as a wealth for the community. The bill that we are considering this afternoon, defended by our colleagues in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, aims to remove the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. We share its philosophy and purpose; We have proposed this same measure of justice in previous debates in this House. This is an important subject, on which we are very much expected by the actors and the people concerned. We were delighted to be able to debate it in serenity, without instrumentalisation or caricature on either side, but the motion for the prior rejection that has been tabled will prevent us from doing so: we deeply regret it. We are convinced that, on this subject, the Government's approach is questionable and needs to be discussed. As such, the inclusion of the spouse's income in the ceiling for the payment of the allowance to adults with disabilities is tantamount to establishing a relationship of dependency of the person with a disability towards his or her spouse or spouse. It leads in practice to create minority situations within the couple. It is a threefold penalty: health and disability problems are added to the problems of money, which sometimes endanger couples, without even mentioning unfortunate cases of violence. According to a study conducted by the National Monitoring Centre for Crime and Criminal Responses in 2016, women with disabilities are the most victims of physical and sexual violence within the couple.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u142	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u143	At a time when the Government has embarked on a major debate aimed at bringing the French together, it is quite significant that the elimination of taking into account the spouse's income is one of the major demands of our fellow citizens on disability. Since the founding law of 30 June 1975, we have gradually moved from a logic of assistance, focusing on the care and care of persons, in accordance with a medical concept of disability, to a logic of rights. This development was enshrined in the Act of 11 February 2005 on Equal Rights and Opportunities, Participation and Citizenship of Persons with Disabilities, which incorporated the principle of the right to compensation for the consequences of disability and provided it with a definition and content. The creation of the disability compensation benefit by the same Act was to provide a welcome clarification of the nature of benefits: the PCH had to realize the right to compensation for disability while the AAH was conceived as an income of existence. Today, the AAH suffered from its position on the edge between the solidarity logic, which prevailed in 1975, and the principle of the right to compensation provided by the 2005 law. It is more than necessary to clarify the logic of the allocation of this benefit. It must be said with force: the AAH is not a social minimum like the others. It is not possible to compare it to the income of active solidarity because, unlike the beneficiaries of the RSA, the situation of persons with disabilities is most often irreversible. According to figures from the 2015 DARES, less than 20% of people who received the AAH were then employed, either because they were unable to work because of too high a disability rate or, it should be noted, because people with disabilities are still subject to massive discrimination in the world of work. In addition, persons with disabilities are at greater risk of unemployment, with an average of 200 days longer than others. We also regret the accounting logic that prevailed in the latest finance bills. We welcomed the successive adjustments in the amount of the AAH granted by the Government, bringing it to 860 euros in November 2018 and 900 euros next year. Why should they be accompanied by purely budgetary measures to tighten the conditions of attribution for couples, which are quite contradictory with the guidelines aimed at enabling them to lead a normal life? Thus, the gradual lowering of the income ceiling multiplier coefficient for AAH beneficiaries in pairs, from 2 to 1.9 on November 1, 2018 and to 1.8 on November 1, 2019, may exclude households with resources between 1.8 and 2 times the individual ceiling from the AAH benefit. As work on the universal income from work begins, we call for a fundamental reflection on the mechanisms for the allocation of disability-related benefits. The associations concerned are already concerned about the consequences for the beneficiaries of the AAH of its possible merger into the future universal income of activity. In particular, we will ensure that any change in the scope of our social benefits does not result in a loss of rights for persons with disabilities. The IUD, Act and Independent Group supports this bill, which meets a requirement of justice: persons with disabilities should not be penalized in their private lives simply because of this disability. Madam Secretary of State, we recognize your commitment and action for persons with disabilities, as well as the Government's willingness to make inclusion a priority for this mandate. So make another little effort or, at least, let us debate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u144	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u145	Even today, tens of thousands of people with disabilities do not receive full or no allowance for adults with disabilities, simply because their spouse is working. This aid, which is the only financial resource for many people, is only €860. Take the example of a person with a disability who settles with his/her spouse earning 1125 euros net per month, less than a full-time SMIC: if his/her spouse is increased by 70 euros, he/she will lose 60 euros; If her spouse earns another 300 euros, she will lose 210 euros, and so on, until her AAH completely disappears. Be aware of the unhealthy situation this can create! This proposal for a law by our communist colleague Marie-George Buffet, much awaited by associations and people with disabilities and signed by many Members of Parliament on all sides, proposes to remedy this. However, once again, the Republic on the march is making a common front to refuse this major step forward. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to those of you who would dare to vote in favour of this motion of rejection, as your group has instructed you, we ask that we have not pity but simply an ounce of common sense and humanity. When the spouse of the disabled person is increased by 70 euros, his or her couple actually receives only 10 extra euros. The current consideration of the spouse's income is proper, not to make family solidarity work, but to break it: in fact, when living conditions are difficult, it can unfortunately happen that two people separate if, in this way, they earn more than by staying together. You should be well disconnected from the realities in order not to recognize it: this is obviously your case. In addition, the AHA is below the poverty line, even though beneficiaries are subject to higher costs due to the daily complications associated with their disability. If this minimum is fundamental when the disabled person is in a relationship, the latter may legitimately feel that society denies him or her basic happiness. Contrary to what has been said in the committee, the disability compensation benefit does not in any way replace the AAH, since it is granted only to certain persons with disabilities who need a third party to help them. Therefore, the AAH is indeed essential for people with disabilities who wish to preserve their autonomy. You compare the AAH to the RSA or other aid to justify its allocation and amount. Is it necessary, because other social minima are less good, to refuse to make the AAH a fairer aid? Can you not, for once, simply ask yourself the only question that is worth asking: is it normal that a person with a disability is not entitled to any financial autonomy, on the sole ground that he or she is in a relationship with a person who works? It is above all through income that a person can emancipate himself: it is therefore an elementary right. We are talking here about tens of thousands of people who, by law, depend entirely on their spouses to live. This retrograde condition should be removed. Playing on such petty mechanisms to save money is simply indecent! In committee, you said you were relying on family solidarity. If it exists, and it is happy, thank you for not using it as a pretext to justify the State's disengagement from its missions. To assume that the spouse's income must complement the low income or even the total lack of income of persons with disabilities is to interfere in the personal affairs of couples. This is not the role of the State, nor is it the role of parliamentarians. Your real intention, by refusing to vote again and even to debate this bill, is to save money on the backs of people with disabilities, while raising a false argument of social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u146	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u147	Social protection must extend to everyone, it must be a universal right. You were telling us in committee that some thought is under way and that a bill will arrive in three months, six months or a year. Stop making a diversion! If this bill seems fair to you, vote there! Let's argue! A subsequent bill will always be able to revise, improve and replace it; But let us not deprive ourselves of such an opportunity. [[MM. François Ruffin and Jean-Paul Lecoq applaud]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] By changing the calculation method of the AAH, you have excluded thousands of people from the benefit of its upgrading. You are now about to reject this bill: how long will your indecency take over your intelligence? Will it be necessary to wait for Mr Macron to meet people with disabilities in a debate so that, as in the debate with women, he realizes that opposition amendments can be common sense and become emergency measures? Do we have to wait for my colleague's bill to become an Elysean emergency measure so that you can finally hear it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u148	You're disrespectful at all possible! It's lamentable to hear things like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u149	You can't say it's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u150	I haven't said anything so far,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u151	Well, keep going!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u152	...but now it's really too lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u153	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u154	Our views differ on this bill because our vision of people with disabilities in society is radically different. The path we choose, for our part, is demanding. It is based on inclusion; It aims at equality and emancipation. It affects all aspects of life in society and cannot be summed up in the basis for calculating a social benefit. I wanted to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your commitment in this area. We organise the conditions for a massive and adapted schooling from an early age, in crèche or in school, by professionalizing the necessary accompaniments and supporting the work of teachers and the organisation of families. In employment, we are changing the situation: new methods of calculating the obligation to employ disabled workers, triple the number of places in suitable enterprises, and easy and accompanied access to learning. We allow adults under guardianship to regain full citizenship by allowing them to marry, pacify or divorce without resorting to judicial authorization. With the "100% inclusive territories" approach, conducted in partnership with departmental councils, we act on the daily lives of people with disabilities and their full access to school, employment, health, transportation, culture and sport. In this regard, I welcome the work being done by communities under the planned accessibility agenda. We know that the road is long and that budgetary constraints are tight, but we can all see that a society is moving forward and that priorities are being reorganised to allow people with disabilities full access to equipment and services. At the city level of Metz, where I have been deputy mayor for several years, it is 288 municipal establishments receiving from the public that it is essential to make accessible. This titanium construction site is planned over nine years, with many urban, technical and heritage constraints. But this project is indispensable and revealing how we take disability into account: everywhere, all the time and fully. In the field of sport, which is dear to me, the Olympic and Paralympic Games will give us an exemplary approach to universal accessibility. It is also being pursued by communities, federations and sports clubs in many parts of the territory. In Metz and elsewhere, in addition to support for sports clubs, we supported the main sports clubs to accompany athletes with disabilities and undertook important work to adapt our equipment to the reception of these athletes: omnisport palaces, athletic hall, gymnasiums, swimming pools – with launching systems. I am making this detour through sport to make you understand our state of mind. The challenge is the full achievement of persons with disabilities and their autonomy, but also the harmonization between departments of disability compensation, the spirit of which, Madam rapporteur, is closer to that of your bill. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The allowance for disabled adults, whose purpose is social, is, for its part, the subject of a major improvement by our majority. When disability is not subject to change, it can now be granted for life. It is intended, tomorrow, to integrate into the single social benefit, as part of the universal income of activity announced by the President of the Republic. It cannot constitute the alpha and omega of a public policy for persons with disabilities. It is a contribution among others of our redistributive system in favour of the people most in difficulty. All of us seem to have to respond to the same rules: those that underpin our social pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u155	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u156	In December, on a roundabout in Nîmes, I crossed Natacha, in a yellow vest over her jogging. With her allowance for adults with disabilities, she was so in poverty that, as she said, "I dress like a tramp. I haven't changed my clothes in three years, and yet – her voice was strangling, demanding dignity – and yet I am a woman! I'm still a woman! It was because her little money was reserved for her children, for their clothes, for their meals. She, her food supplements, she was looking for them in the garbage bins behind the Monoprix. "We don't have a choice, we don't have a choice. We have to survive. With her fellow yellow vests, she had gone to the permanence of a member of Parliament, The Republic on the Way of the Gard, who gave her wise advice: "She told me that I had only to work. I asked him, "And what did you say to him? She replied: "Nothing, nothing, I stayed on my butt! Enterprises do not hire disabled people; They'd rather pay fines! In your gibberish, on the benches of the majority, you call it "positive inclusion." In this debate, on the side of La République en marche, I find echoes of the exchange with Natacha. What does Marie-George Buffet and the GDR group offer? That the pension paid to persons with disabilities no longer varies according to their marital status; their meagre allowance shall not be reduced when they are pacing, marrying, marrying, or when their spouse finds a job; that this benefit is for them a guarantee of autonomy, an assurance of independence. What's your answer? What did you answer during the examination in committee? "No, no question, what we want is a "positive inclusion." I quote Marching Member Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel: "To remove the AAH from the common law of aid would run counter to the policy of social inclusion of persons with disabilities. But we are making the bet, which you may consider too ambitious, on the employment and training of these people. We want to encourage their inclusion rather than lock them in the social minima. It is for their own good, you understand, for their "positive inclusion", that people with disabilities are kept below the poverty line, that it motivates them, that it stimulates them, that it boosts them towards employment, that there is a counterpart, however, to their 900 euros of allowances. On the other hand, the Government has not considered raising fines for companies – the vast majority of them – that do not hire, as the law requires, 6% of people with disabilities. Nor has the Government considered claiming any consideration for the $40 billion in the competitiveness and employment tax credit. Even less touched by his spirit, in the Government, than to condition, for Bernard Arnault and Gérard Mulliez, the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth to their marital situation, depending on whether they are single, couple or pacsés. For the rich, it is unconditional and without consideration, but when it comes to the poor, it is necessary to chip and chicane, inspect their bed, control toothbrushes in the bathroom, make sure of their loneliness for, petty petty, scratch 100 or 200 euros on their minima. Yet society is ready. Better, society today calls for progress, real progress, generous progress for children with disabilities, for their parents, for their companions, for adults with disabilities. In the post-war period, Minister Ambrose Croizat was implementing a comprehensive social security plan, so that old age, illness, maternity and accident no longer lead to poverty. It is now our duty to maintain these achievements, but also to extend it to a fifth part: disability. "Disabled" should no longer rhyme with "poverty". Our fellow citizens, as I said, are ready for it. The Communists, the unsubs, the Socialists, the Republicans, the UDI-Agir, all the groups in this House are ready to do so. All will vote on Marie-Georges Buffet's bill, all except you, colleagues of the Republic on the move. You will oppose this small step of humanity, you will ration your "positive inclusion". Yet, even you are ready; Even you, at the bottom of your heart, see it well, injustice, the profound injustice done to people with disabilities. On principle, you're in favour. On the moral foundation, you're in favour. On the meaning of history, you're in favor. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] But here you are, first of all, watching the budget, fearing the deficit, protecting the stock market: money before people. Again, we will never stop reminding you, because it is the pure truth, the whole truth, the strict truth: you are less economical, much more lax, when it comes to enriching the rich; There, you don't sneeze on blank cheques. You have the reverse generosity: you give everything to those who have everything and you have nothing left for those who have nothing. For them, for Natacha, there is nothing left but a gibberish about positive inclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u157	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u158	This text has the merit of putting on the table the question of the resources available to persons with disabilities. This is an important issue, a question of social justice for these people that national solidarity must support when they are unable to work. An adult with a disability who is unable to work can benefit from the allowance for adults with disabilities. Many associations of persons with disabilities have been calling for reform of this aid for a long time, too long. We can understand that. This aid not only amounts to a maximum of 860 euros, but also the spouse's income is taken into account in his calculation. In short, the AAH is not the panacea for people with disabilities who are unable to work. And the situation becomes totally upuesque when these people are married or pacsé: if their spouse earns more than 1126 euros a month, their allowance becomes degressive and, from 2200 euros of income, it is simply removed. Who may believe that it is possible for a couple to live decently with such income, especially when the disability of one of the spouses involves costs of accommodation, treatment or transportation that can be very important. As reported by associations – as has been said on several occasions – some people with disabilities even give up marriage in order to save their allowance; This situation is not tolerable. The aim of this text is therefore commendable. The upgrading of the AAH to 900 euros at the end of 2019 is welcome. Unfortunately, however, it will not solve the problem if persons with disabilities who are married are excluded from it. However, I am not in favour of the outright suppression of the spouse's income in calculating this aid because I do not think that state solidarity should take precedence over family solidarity. On the contrary, national solidarity complements family solidarity when it is lacking. The importance of family solidarity constitutes family ties. Solidarity is one of the duties of spouses in marriage. This duty of rescue extends even to stepparents as well as to sons-in-law and daughters-in-law. Today, the relationship of dependency between spouses is often considered to be degrading, wrongly; Our society, I believe, has to change its mind about this. On the other hand, the way in which the AAH is calculated is a serious problem, as there is a need to ensure a minimum level of autonomy for persons with disabilities. That is why I believe that the limits used to take into account the spouse's income need to be seriously increased. A disabled person whose spouse would earn less than twice the median wage per month must be able to receive the full allowance. That is what I proposed in my amendments, which the majority will regrettably refuse to consider by adopting the motion to reject beforehand. In addition, the decision taken in the last Finance Act to abolish additional resources must be reconsidered. This aid, which was to supplement the AAH, was abolished, under the guise of simplification, to the exclusive benefit of the increase for autonomous life, which was obviously lower. The attitude of the majority towards disability is often distressing: many words that struggle to mask measuring devices with no other purpose than to save money. Once again, the majority proceeded to its usual work of undermining the texts which did not emanate from it, by presenting a new motion of rejection. That is a shame, because if we can disagree with the bill, we cannot deny that there is a real subject, a real problem, and we are still waiting for the majority's proposals. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Finding solutions when it's so comfortable to keep your eyes and look at others from its pedestal, it's so much easier! The situation of people with disabilities requires our full attention, not just financial support. Because the most important and unfortunate thing is that 32% of them say they feel alone. It is time to question, together, the place we assign them and the look we take on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u159	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u160	The purpose of this draft law is to eliminate the maritalization of the calculation of a subsidiary allowance. Created in 1975, the AAH is a resource guarantee for people with disabilities. It is granted subject to the fulfilment of criteria of incapacity for age, residence and resources. There are approximately 1.1 million beneficiaries of the AAH, whose full-rate allowance was increased from 810 to 860 euros per month last November. Its amount will increase again to 900 euros per month in November 2019. This unprecedented decision is in line with our commitments to the French. In 2019, the AAH budget will amount to EUR 12 billion and the additional effort will amount to more than EUR 2 billion over the quinquennium. Finally, the AAH is now allocated for life to beneficiaries whose disability is not likely to change favourably, whereas nine or ten renewals were previously required. The AAH is a benefit paid on a means-tested basis and without a contribution from the beneficiary, such as active solidarity income or the minimum old age: it is therefore not a disability compensation allowance. Since 2005, the disability compensation benefit – PCH –, which can be combined with the AAH and does not take into account the beneficiary's resources, aims to compensate for the disability according to the plan of life. It is attributed regardless of the origin and nature of the disability, age and lifestyle. The average amount paid by the departmental councils is 5550 euros per year, but it must be recognised that there are large disparities between departments, and this situation is not sustainable. According to the Court of Auditors, it ranges from €2812 to €9407. Thus, in my department, Val-de-Marne, it is less than 5000 euros on average, while a few kilometres away, in Paris, it reaches more than 7,500 euros on average. Such differences are unbearable. That is why, as part of the national conference on disability that takes place in the first half of 2019, the Government has begun work on the renovation of the PCH, in order to improve its allocation throughout the country. On the other hand, I recall that last May, we passed a bill to improve the PCH, which removes the age barrier and aims to reduce the remaining burden on beneficiaries. We are waiting for the Senate to rule on this matter. Let's go back to the AAH. If it ensures a minimum income for a person with a disability or a precarious situation, it is logical to take into account the spouse's income, in the name of the principle of financial solidarity within the couple. However, the calculation of the AAH is derogating from the other social minimums since the resource ceiling applied is set at 1.9 times its amount, compared with 1.5 for the RSA. In addition, the spouse's income from business is taken into account in a favourable way, and I would point out that the spouse's income is specifically reduced by 20%. This means that, out of 100 euros of the spouse's business income, only 80 euros are taken into account for the calculation of the AAH. What you're not saying is that your bill would make many losers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u161	I had tabled an amendment to correct this, but we will not be able to debate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u162	Yes, conjugalization protects: one third of the beneficiaries of the DHA work while their spouses do not have income. The current rules thus allow the full benefit to be combined, in addition to a wage at the SMIC. In November 2019, these beneficiaries will be able to receive 900 euros from AAH in addition to their salary and the activity bonus. If household-wide resources were no longer taken into account, they would no longer be able to claim only 344 euros from AAH, or 750 euros of lost profits per month.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u163	An amendment was correcting this situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u164	Many rules of cumulation and reduction are applied for the calculation of the AHA, both on the resources of the disabled person and on those of his spouse, partner or partner bound by a ACAP. The evolution of these rules must therefore be conceived in a global way: this will be the case through the reflection on basic income, which may include the AAH. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For these various reasons, I suggest that you reconsider the bill better. Contrary to what was advocated by a report on social minima submitted to the Prime Minister under the previous legislature, the current government has chosen to open this question: let us therefore open there, but intelligently.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u165	Why not today?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u166	Smartly? It's always a pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u167	Yes! Thanks for the adverb!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u168	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u169	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers. The richness of the interventions bears witness to something very strong. Apart from the fact that this proposal is supported by eighty signatories, coming from all the benches of this assembly, to you, one perceives the manifestation of a common will – without preemption from anyone – to do justice to people affected by disability. From this point of view, I want to say that we could have built something very beautiful this afternoon. The proposals I have heard could have resulted in amendments of great wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u170	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u171	I myself had tabled an amendment resolving the problem of the 57,000 people affected by disability and with one or more dependants who could lose some of their rights. The problem would have been solved immediately! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and LT groups]] That is why I sincerely regret that the majority is defending a motion of rejection in advance. There was room to hear each other build a first law that would certainly not have answered all the problems, but was a first stone improving the rights of people with disabilities. I absolutely agree with you, Madam Secretary of State, on an approach to the rights of individuals and, of course, an inclusive society. You are right, it means the right to education, the right to go to school, the right to attend classes normally, like other children. There is still a long way to go to ensure that this is the case, even though, as I said in my speech, a first movement was outlined in the first reading of the bill for a school of trust. However, it is necessary to go further with the accompanying persons by giving them a real status in order to ensure that they are truly involved in the educational team and that they receive adequate training. Then, of course, the questions of access to university and then employment arise. I share your point of view: our goal is to ensure that as many people as possible with disabilities have access to employment because it is the best source of autonomy and dignity: I work, I get paid, I pay a share of family expenses, etc. But we know that people with disabilities will not be able to benefit from full-time work – perhaps it will be different tomorrow because of technological advances, but, as it is, it is not possible. You have also talked about citizenship and mobility, accessibility, important advances in social life, but we know how impossible it is for people with disabilities to travel. When elevators are planned – I could talk about the stations in my constituency – they are so often broken that accessibility is called into question almost daily. Since I am absolutely committed to this process, I would like to tell you, Madam Secretary of State, not to stop at the question of resources, to go to the end of this process, which you made clear during your speech: make the AAH a real allocation of autonomy! I do not want to spend hours debating whether it is compensation or solidarity. The problem is not here. It is a matter of inventing a new, genuinely autonomous allowance for people with disabilities! That is the question I am trying to ask, which the eighty signatories are trying to put with the bill. I do not want to be too long, but I also want to say that the autonomy requested is not only financial. To have one's own resources is essential for one's freedom, independence, not to depend on the other, to be able to bring to the other. Yesterday, I met two disabled women who visited the National Assembly. They told me that when a woman in a couple is affected, financial dependency on the spouse can be an additional source of vulnerability. Moving to the end of the process of extending the rights and social inclusion of the person affected by the disability requires a real autonomy of resources, i.e. the transformation of the HFA into an autonomy allowance. That is the meaning of the bill before you. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC, FI and LT groups]] I have heard, Madam Secretary of State, that you and the disability support associations are working on a broader reform of the social minimums, in which you will include the question of the resources of people with disabilities – we discussed this together a few days ago. Let us begin today to build a new house by debating, amending and perhaps adopting the text. We will thus give a strong signal to all these people, to all these associations, that the reform is in progress, that we are not waiting, that we are beginning today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u172	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u173	Let me react to a few points. Yes, it is a global view of the resources of the person who must animate us. However, I was a little shocked to hear that some people do not see the person with a disability as someone self-employed, working or wanting to work, while 67% of people with disabilities do so full-time, and many couples work. This somewhat compassionate and pastistic vision, which reduces the person to a supposed inability to work, does not correspond to the daily experience of these people or to what they want. It is false to claim that the disabled person would be mechanically excluded from the world of work because of his disability. This is precisely what leads to a confinement, to a house arrest of the person, instead of letting him take the risk of a good accompaniment to go to work, which corresponds to what he wishes. Today, 40% of the beneficiaries of the AAH receive the low-rate allowance because they have other resources, especially from activities; 18% of the AAH beneficiaries are wage earners. My ambition? That this rate increases significantly and that people can live from their work. That is the whole meaning of the reform of the obligation to work, which I carried out with Muriel Pénicaud. You have concerns about the renovation of this obligation, but they are absolutely unfounded. Mrs Corneloup, you claimed that the associations would be overly worried. I register falsely: they are around the table, working on the drafting of the decree; their ambition is to value direct employment, to preserve the subcontracting and responsible purchases, through the possibility of making purchases from ESAT – the establishments and services of help through work – and from the adapted companies. I would remind you that the State is investing 500 million in the latter and 50 million in the training of professionals. You could imagine that we are not going to stop these responsible purchases. On the contrary, we value them, but we want these companies to become so many airlocks and springboards for employment in the ordinary environment. This is the whole issue of "Going to Inclusive Business," a commitment we have signed with network heads, who are around the table and know what to do with it. Rest assured: responsible purchases are an integral part of our policy of various offers for access to employment and for a dignified life through work. However, we want these companies to become real sas towards employment in the ordinary environment. This is all at stake in this transformation, in this renovation. Yes, the adapted companies and the ESATs are totally involved in this renovation because they also offer an activity through work. I would remind you, however, that their employees are not covered by labour law but by the medical and social sector, and many of them are asking to leave in order to find an accompanying wage-earning job. This is the whole issue of the transformation that we are working on, with the associations of people with disabilities. I assure you: they are around the table and co-build the reform with us. To return to the AAH beneficiaries as a couple, a number of speakers felt that the rules for calculating the allowance would be contrary to the right to family life. I would like to speak against this argument, as Mr Mbaye did. Catalina Devandas-Aguilar, UN Special Rapporteur – the United Nations – in her October 2017 report found nothing to be wrong with this policy of accompaniment, conjugalisation, national and family solidarity. On the other hand, I agree with you on this point, but it has not failed to point out the complexity of our devices. The issue of the universal income of activity, on which we want to work, is well here: our policy of access to the law is far too complex. I therefore oppose the idea of an ever more specific right: I want a tendency towards common law, accompanied by common law, so that people with disabilities can benefit from a true readability. Family and national solidarity are not opposed but complement, as Mr Hammouche said very well, which I thank for that clarification. With regard to AAH and poverty, I heard that the resource limit for couples was losing. That's not true, there's no losers. It is wrong to say that 250,000 couples are penalized. With this upgrading, 60% of couples are winners, either totally or partially. This is also the case for 100% of couples made up of two beneficiaries of the AAH – because this happens – who will benefit from more than 180 euros per month. Solidarity is exercised more strongly towards those who need it most. It has to be said that the abolition of the ceiling makes 57,000 losers among couples. A third are in a relationship, work and carry out complementary activities: they would be the big losers. However, in these couples, the beneficiary of the AAH is the breadwinner – it must be said that in some families, the breadwinner is a beneficiary of the AAH, that this reality does not correspond to the compassionate vision of people with disabilities. It was said that all beneficiaries of the AAH lived below the poverty line. But this is not the case: the three-quarters of them live above this threshold, even if half of them are considered modest, and they must not be satisfied. This is at stake: improving the rate of activity and access to the world of work. For the time being, the 11 % increase in the benefit for €2 billion is precisely designed to combat the poverty of people with disabilities. National solidarity must always support those who need it most. I heard that our disability policy was made up of measures. I would like to say that we do not have to be ashamed of this policy. We spend more than $45 billion on people with disabilities. This amount comes from: 40% of social security, which finances disability and medical and social institutions; 35 per cent of the State, with the allowance for adults with disabilities and all measures to promote employment and school enrolment; 15 per cent of departments, which provide disability compensation and accommodation. Therefore, reducing disability policy to the pure and simple problem of conjugalization of the AAH is missing a major aspect of the impact of our policy on people with disabilities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our country stands out for the large part of the money it spends on monetary benefits. Is it for the benefit of everyone? That is not what I hear, and the dissatisfaction with the results of this policy is eloquent: we must do better, we can do better, all together, to finally build this inclusive society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u174	I have received a motion from Mr Gilles Le Gendre and members of the La République en marche group, tabled pursuant to Rule 91, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Christine Cloarec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u175	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left proposes that we vote to abolish the inclusion of the spouse's income in the basis for calculating the allowance for adults with disabilities. It would therefore be a matter of individualizing the payment of this benefit. In order to ensure that there is no confusion and at the risk of some repetitions, let me recall what the allowance for adults with disabilities is. It is a social minimum, a guarantee of resources or an RSA – active solidarity income – improved and adapted to people with disabilities, a "RSAH" in a way. This is a decisive element of national solidarity, which justifies its being borne by the State budget. National solidarity is legitimately linked with family solidarity, in particular the solidarity between spouses, recognized by civil law. The AAH is designed in a differential and familiar manner. This means that it can be combined with other resources, but also that the ceiling is increased depending on the family situation. The amount corresponds to the difference between the maximum amount of the allowance for adults with disabilities and all other resources received by the household. However, many rules of cumulation and reduction favourable to the beneficiaries of the AAH, derogating from what is done for the other social minimums, are already provided for. The amount of the AAH is thus higher than that of the other social minima. For example, for a couple, the limit is increased by 90% and the spouse's income is reduced by 20%. This means that, out of 100 euro declared, only 80 euro are taken into account for the calculation of the AAH. It should be noted that in such a situation, for the beneficiaries of the RSA, this increase is only 50%. In the event of a resumption of activity, the AAH may be accumulated in full with the income for six months and, beyond that, a specific discount shall continue to be applied. Again, this rule does not apply to beneficiaries of other social minimums. Moreover, as you know, the AAH has been upgraded in an exceptional way. This unprecedented increase will increase to 900 euros as of 1 November this year. This represents an 11 per cent increase over the amount at the beginning of the quinquennium, the equivalent of a thirteenth month. In total, this is an investment of EUR 2 billion by 2022. As I mentioned in the introduction, the AAH is a social minimum granted to persons with disabilities and aimed at providing them with a minimum income when they are in a precarious situation. It is not intended to compensate for disability. I insist: it is not intended to compensate for disability. This compensation is the responsibility of the disability compensation benefit, or PCH, created by the Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities for persons with disabilities. If the AAH has higher advantages than the other social minima, we have chosen not to touch the principle of family solidarity. In a couple, the higher a person's income, the lower the amount of the spouse's social minimum. To accompany and defend people with disabilities is therefore, for us, not to change the AAH's calculation rules, but to change the society's vision of disability. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has been displaying this ambition. Secretary of State Sophie Cluzel takes her through her decisions and argues in her favour in the speeches she delivers. What is an inclusive society? It is a society that gives a place to everyone within it. In France, our vision and approach to the issue of disability over the past 50 years have been strongly criticized. Last month, the United Nations issued a report on France's handling of disability issues. The finding is crazy. Let me read you an excerpt: "Although France allocates considerable financial and human resources to services for people with disabilities, the measures that are being taken to meet their needs are extremely specialized and compartmentalized. Indeed, the emphasis is on caring for disability, while efforts should converge towards a transformation of society and the living environment, so that all benefit from accessible and inclusive services and community support. A compartmentalization that only maintains a false image of people with disabilities, to be taken care of rather than as subjects of law. » Our country is one of the last in Europe to have such an institutional vision of the subject. So let us not be wrong about fighting. It is indeed towards an inclusive society that we must go, not towards a society that treats people with disabilities apart from those with disabilities and increases their exclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u176	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u177	Of course, all of us here know, in our territories, complicated personal situations, people waiting for solutions, people suffering. These situations leave no one indifferent, alert and question us. That is why we need to act on several levers to improve their daily lives. Let me remind you of a few decisions taken since the beginning of the mandate concerning persons with disabilities directly. From the beginning of this quinquennium, a State Secretariat for Persons with Disabilities, attached to the Prime Minister, was established. It was a strong signal and evidence of the transversal nature of the mission and the importance of the subject. This decision has been confirmed by the fact that disability is a major issue for this government. Following the Taquet-Serres report, entitled "Simpler life", two decrees were issued to facilitate the lives of persons with disabilities. Thus, since 1 January 2019, all persons whose disability is not likely to evolve favourably are recognized their rights for life. Previously, a beneficiary of the AAH had to renew his rights nine to ten times over the course of his life. The recent adoption of several own-initiative parliamentary texts had improved the status of carers, for example through the donation of days and the recognition of caregiving status, and the Government had pledged to fund, through national solidarity, a caregiving leave in the future social security budget. In view of the implementation of the universal income of activity, in which as many benefits as possible will be merged, a mission has just been entrusted to Fabrice Lenglart, under the auspices of Christelle Dubos, Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, and in connection with the inter-ministerial delegation for the prevention and fight against poverty. An institutional and citizen consultation will be launched next April. Collective work will help define the contours and parameters of the future delivery, with a view to introducing a bill in 2020. With Julien Damon, I presented the Prime Minister last September with a report on fair performance. Among the proposals we have put forward is the merger of social benefits. But it is true that we have warned of the risk that moving towards a single service will erase the specificities considered justified. The fact that the AAH presents, like the ASPA – solidarity allowance for the elderly – lump sums higher than that of the RSA cannot be called into question. If there is a single service, it can only be understood in a logic of foundation, with complements. Five projects were launched, under the auspices of the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, within the framework of the National Conference on Disability. The conclusions, which will be presented in June, will concern: openness and eligibility for the PCH; the relationship between the education allowance of the disabled child and PCH; preventing the departure of adults in Belgium; governance of departmental houses for persons with disabilities and representativeness within the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities. Let us now turn to the disability compensation benefit, which aims to enable the disabled person to cope with the consequences of his or her disability in his or her daily life, regardless of the origin and nature of his or her disability, age or way of life, taking into account his or her needs, expectations and choices of life. The PCH includes assistance of all kinds, in response to the needs of persons with disabilities. Attributed by the departmental houses of disabled persons and paid by the departments, it benefits more than 335,000 people. In 90% of cases, it finances human aid. Taxation is not the same, since PCH is not taxable. Progress is numerous and real, but much remains to be done. As a result, there are many ways to improve existing systems. It will be a matter of simplification because our system is complex. We need more fluidity in decisions and clarity in notifications, simplification in processes, reduction in processing times. There will also be a need to better control the fairness of treatment and to better understand the needs of people with mental disabilities. The establishment of a universal income for activity should lead to a review of the AAH's scheme to make it more effective and to encourage the resumption of activity where possible. Today the AAH does not encourage the resumption of employment. In the framework of the national conference on disability, launched at the end of 2018, a working group is specifically dedicated to the implementation of a better compensation of disability: a renovated PCH will be able to take better account of the needs of people. Its aim is to work on the amounts of the PCH, to improve the take-up of material aids and to reduce inequalities between territories. The gap is big. Between departments, the amount of the PCH varies from simple to more than three times: from 2812 to 9407 euros per year. As the President of the Republic has committed himself to it, a wide-ranging reflection on age and autonomy has been launched. A national consultation, chaired by Dominique Libault, President of the High Council for Social Protection Financing, is under way, through ten workshops. This consultation is led by a policy council, which, in order to allow for a cross-cutting vision, brings together many actors, including parliamentarians from several political groups. The forthcoming restitution of the workshop, helping families and volunteering, will serve to enrich the reflection on the status, recognition and support of caregivers of persons with disabilities, but also to increase their ability to grasp their rights throughout the French territory. The results of this project will feed into a bill that will be introduced later this year. Persons with disabilities must find their place in society, whether they are able to work or not. For those who can work in the ordinary environment, the AAH must be an incentive to take up business. The reflection on the universal income of activity will take into account this problem. Everyone must contribute to the goal of inclusion in work, emancipation through work and the search for autonomy. For those who will not be able to reach the ordinary environment, the Government has created an additional 40,000 jobs for integration through economic activity, equivalent to 100,000 jobs. This is a considerable and indispensable effort. If the person's disability does not allow him or her to work in a company that would adapt the position, then it is our responsibility to offer the opportunity to work in an already suitable environment. For those who cannot work at all, national solidarity must take over and fully assume its role in ensuring a decent life. We still need to improve accessibility and access to services for all. People with disabilities want to live with and like others. We hear this, and that is why we must continue, in a cross-cutting way, to improve their living conditions through so-called common law policies. Persons with disabilities are citizens in their own right. We must build, for and with them, the policies that concern them. Yes, we are betting on building this inclusive society in our country; We are making the bet of succeeding in moving from a protectionist or even over-protectionist approach, from a sometimes too compassionate look that people with disabilities can do, to an approach that focuses on emancipation through work and the search for autonomy for all. We need to transform the perspective on disability from an early age. We need to identify and use the potentials and talents of everyone rather than looking at their weaknesses and disabilities. Let's stop partitioning, let's stop putting people in boxes. Access to autonomy is not to receive an allowance...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u178	Sometimes it helps!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u179	...but to be able to choose his future and his life course. Promoting self-reliance is not to reduce the improvement of the living conditions of persons with disabilities to financial support alone. It means understanding and taking into account the needs and motivations of persons with disabilities. It is to consider them as citizens in their own right, subjects of law – as the UN report indicates – capable of taking their place in one way or another in the city. It's creating the right conditions to live better together, to work together, to learn together. We are all concerned about disability. We all have a role to play in building this inclusive society that we all dream of: the state, communities, businesses, associations, people with disabilities and their families. You were right to say, Madam rapporteur, that we discussed the subject in the Committee on Social Affairs, which I welcome. The debate therefore took place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u180	What a bad argument! What a bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u181	The House is not the committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u182	It is taking place and will take place again during the many ongoing and forthcoming consultations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u183	We still haven't understood why we had to adopt the motion to reject it beforehand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u184	I didn't insult you when you were talking. Please respect me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u185	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] Only Mrs Cloarec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u186	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] For all these reasons, we cannot vote for this new text, which would make many losers. We therefore invite you to vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u187	No, because we didn't understand your arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u188	Go on, Mrs. Cloarec.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u189	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude with a little thought for my dad, who lived thirty-five years in a wheelchair and who often asked me, when I used to breastfeed him too much to his liking: "Do you think I am a disabled person? I'm thinking about him today. If he'd been there, he'd have stopped his ears a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u190	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the explanations of vote on this motion. Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u191	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] Let me give you my feeling. Since this morning, I have been present among the other members of my group. We are now on the third bill and the third rejection by motion. I can't figure it out. We can disagree, it is the political game to debate it. But the subject is important and we too are sensitive to disability; We don't necessarily have a disabled person in our families, but we know about them, we know them and we talk with them. Unfortunately, no matter what the season, we see that the group La République en marche persists and signs: it refuses the debates. In the fall, your rejection motions are shovelling. In the spring, like the swallows, your rejection motions come back together. How is it possible to reject this bill, which affects the human being in the depths of his flesh? How is it possible to put in brackets its sensitivity, to erase the values of national solidarity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u192	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u193	As we speak of a major debate, it takes place with all associations defending the rights of persons with disabilities, as well as with citizens, families and elected representatives in their diversity. But this civic expression for respect for dignity is neither listened to nor heard nor even discussed. We do not ask for the moon, but for the right to exist, to be autonomous, to live simply. The bill presented by Marie-George Buffet invites us to take this path. Unfortunately, you are sweeping these expectations with very technical answers. Here's the key question: Do you have the political will to allow adults with disabilities to build their life project? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] As you have understood, the GDR Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand and invite you to think before deciding: to put everything back to tomorrow, you are widening the gap of inequalities even further.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u194	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u195	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] As we did not immediately see a rejection motion tabled on this text, we thought for a moment that the majority was finally ready to debate the crucial issue of the allowance for adults with disabilities. Unfortunately, you do not seem to measure the full importance of the issue. The people concerned will appreciate it. Again, the removal of the spouse's income from the calculation of the HFA is a long-standing request. Should this question emerge from the analysis of the claims heard in the context of the great national debate so that you can finally hear it? Your motion of prior rejection is indeed proof, if necessary, of the injustice felt by our fellow citizens with regard to this allowance and, more generally, with regard to the effective autonomy of persons with disabilities. We all know the limitations of the current method of calculation of the AAH. Today, we had the opportunity to modify it to address the two crucial issues of dignity and purchasing power due to the individuals involved. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Unfortunately, the majority again lacks an important appointment for them. Of course, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote against the motion for rejection because we are missing an important appointment for all those involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u196	Mr Laurent Pietraszewski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u197	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] I would like to thank the rapporteur for her good speech. The debates were of good quality; It would be a shame if, at the time of the explanations of vote, we were forced to overbid in emotion. It would be more interesting to discuss the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u198	We don't need a lesson!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u199	The first thing to do is to listen, it seems to me, even if it is difficult for you, my dear colleague... I repeat, we do not have at all the same reading of the place of disabled citizens in our society, which is why we have tabled this motion. This complete divergence was explained very well by the Secretary of State. Yes, we believe that the exclusively compassionate approach is pastist and must be overtaken. Moreover, many European countries have a very different approach to disability. There is no reason why we, French, should not be able to offer an inclusion of equivalent quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u200	Our approach is not "compassionate"! We're not asking for charity! Your arguments are incredible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u201	It is always difficult for you to listen; There's progress to make, you're going to make progress... Is it possible that I'm speaking, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u202	You alone have the floor, Mr Pietraszewski.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u203	I recently visited the Lille offices in Pôle Emploi, with Ms Sophie Cluzel and Ms Muriel Pénicaud, to have an exchange with collaborators around the SARAH scheme – a regional support service for the learning of young people with disabilities – and to consider ways to strengthen inclusion, by preparing citizens seeking employment to integrate the company. This is a great, concrete ambition for which Mrs Sophie Cluzel has committed herself, with the majority as a whole, and to which we are giving resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u204	I ask you to conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u205	Thank you for leaving me these extra seconds because I was interrupted. Our different reading of disability justifies the previous rejection motion, for which the moving Republic Group will vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u206	What a sufficiency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u207	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u208	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] It seemed at the beginning, a few hours ago, that the colleagues of the majority had not yet considered tabling a motion to reject this text in advance, which carries an essential reform: the modification of the modalities of calculation of the AAH, which takes into account the income of the spouses for 205000 couples. Unfortunately, as with the other texts examined today, you have not been able to resist temptation. Frankly, how have you been able to table a motion of rejection, thus refusing to debate such an important measure, which aims to remove a device that exacerbates the precariousness of many of our fellow citizens? The individualization of the AAH is crucial, as you know, Madam Secretary of State, because it guarantees the financial autonomy of the disabled person. Taking into account the spouse's income on the basis of the AAH, you impose a financial dependency between the spouses, whose first victims will be women. Indeed, when the spouse's income is more than 2169 euros per month, the AAH is simply removed for the spouse with a disability. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Definitely, this Government does not like families. It is not good to be married in France, whether you are disabled or retired, due to the rise in the CSG.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u209	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u210	The Government had introduced the levy at source to individualize everyone in the face of the tax, but it now refused to individualize the AAH, placing it under the condition of the spouse's resources. You only impose individualization when it suits you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u211	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u212	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] Consequently, the Republican Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand and regrets that it cannot vote in favour of Mrs Buffet's bill for lack of debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u213	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u214	As we explained in the general discussion, the MODEM Group cannot resolve to vote on the bill and will therefore support the motion to reject the majority in advance. Although the intentions contained in this text are commendable, they run counter to the principles of national and family solidarity that have governed our social system for decades. The allowance for adults with disabilities, let us recall, is a financial aid that ensures a minimum of resources for persons with disabilities. In this sense, it is supported collectively in a solidarity logic. This solidarity corresponds to that which binds the spouse or spouse recognized as such by the Civil Code. Marital solidarity, and even family solidarity, is our national solidarity and not an alternative to it. This proposal therefore contradicts the definition of the differential and familyised social minimum. That is why we cannot subscribe to it. We would prefer a global approach that favours a systemic approach to the promotion of autonomy, in its own right and not in its own right, as the Secretary of State pointed out, in a society of responsibility, dignity and equity, in a community of life and people in relation to inclusion, inclusion and protection. I dare to quote Léon Bourgeois, who wrote in 1896 in Solidarity: "Freedom begins with the liberation of his social debt. Our group will therefore vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u215	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u216	I would like to understand why it would be compassionate to call for equal rights. Your reaction does not augur well as to the place that will be given to the AAH in the future device. First of all, this bill meets the expectations of associations and persons with disabilities. We, like everyone else, have heard from associations of people with disabilities and most of us – at least those who will not vote on this motion – have spoken out: here we are only relaying their requests, which we support. The poverty line is set at EUR 1026. At the end of the quinquennium, the AAH will amount to 900 euros, well below this threshold. Finally, between orders and motions for rejection or referral to committee, democratic debate is becoming increasingly difficult in our House. The Socialist and Related Group will of course vote against this motion because that is not the message we want to send to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u217	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u218	[[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] For the third time of the day, the UDI-Agir Group will vote against a motion to reject it beforehand, but not on the same grounds as before, since we would have voted on this bill if we had been able to debate it. Opposition to compassion is indifference, an attitude that is difficult to conceive of. We are not at all in a compassionate logic. I also believe that I have reiterated my support for the policy of Ms. Cluzel and the Government on disability. There is a great difference of opinion on this subject, but since disability brings us together on all these benches, it is high time that we took together the small step proposed by Mrs Buffet, expected by the associations and by persons with disabilities. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, FI and GDR groups]] It is a shame, Madam Secretary of State, not to be able to debate it. That is why, for the third time today, we will oppose a motion of rejection, but not for the same reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u219	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u220	Again! Again, you are putting forward a motion of rejection, again on a bill in favour of persons with disabilities. Again, I ask you solemnly, fellow walkers: are you not ashamed? In France, 1 million people with disabilities live below the poverty line; It affects 30 per cent of the severely disabled and 20 per cent of the mentally disabled, twice the national average. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] What does Marie-George Buffet and the Communist group propose? That the allowance paid to adults with disabilities no longer varies according to marital status. Whether their meagre allowance is not raised when they are pacing, marrying, marrying, or when their spouse finds a job. The Association des paralysées de France is in favour of this measure, as are many other associations. In this Chamber, on the right, the Republicans, IDU, Act and Independent Groups, and Liberties and Territories are for this text; On the left, the communists, the socialists and the unsumptuous are also. You are alone, walkers, in opposing this progress, you who are the majority alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u221	Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u222	We can be for this proposal, we can be against it; There can be agreements and disagreements! We should be able to exchange arguments, but we will not be able to do so, because again today, again, you are going to adopt a motion of rejection that bears his name. This means that the discussion on such an important point, which concerns millions of people, will not take place. You use your strength, you use your number, you completely prevent the debate, you prohibit the examination of the articles and amendments! The big debate is everywhere, except here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u223	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u224	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] There is a public vote: once again, the names of the voters will be public and will circulate throughout France!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u225	Ruffin: fake popular, real populist!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u226	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's not a threat, it's not delation! It's a duty of responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u227	Shame to the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u228	Please, a little dress, it is not worth invective in the Chamber. I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u229	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 35 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u230	As a result, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u231	The next item is the debate on the bill to strengthen the integrity of elected office and national representation (No. 788, 1701).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u232	I call Mr Moetai Brotherson, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u233	Ia ora na. Anyone who has had the curiosity or obligation to read court decisions can confirm that the latter, by virtue of article 454 of the Code of Civil Procedure, usually begin with the formula "In the name of the French people". The law is therefore given in the name of the people, in the name of the citizens. We ourselves here, before being elected or ministers, are all citizens. We should never forget it, not need to wait until the end of our duties or mandates to remember it. What has the people told us constantly for several years? That he no longer trusts his representatives, that they are "all rotten", that there is no one to catch up with the other. This hard and unrelenting finding is even more severe among young people. And yet, from my first term as a municipal councillor in 2014, until the legislative election that has led me among you for almost two years, I see that the vast majority of elected officials have pegged to the body the requirement of probity and the meaning of public service. It is therefore the actions of some who come to cast reproach on all the elected, in an amalgam amplified by buzz, social networks and this thought too often shortened to 140 or 280 characters. No, ladies and gentlemen, this amalgam is not deserved, it must be said and recalled with force and conviction. [[Smile]] In 2013, 2016 and more recently, by adopting the law of 15 September 2017 for confidence in political life, Parliament reacted to shocking news and listened to the people by tightening the requirement of probity and its main corollary: the penalty of ineligibility. Unfortunately, these reactions, useful but of course, did not put an end to mistrust or mistrust. This morning I heard some invoke a program that 67 million French people would have read – including, therefore, those who are neither old enough to vote nor capable of reading... Let's do a quick poll here in this Chamber: who among us can quote from my memory the fourth commitment on page 27 of candidate Macron's program?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u234	We're the only ones who know it by heart!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u235	[[Laughs]] Don't look, I'll give you the answer, because I've read this program, which I wanted to believe. He promised: "Prohibition for holders of a B2 criminal record from running for election."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u236	That's not our case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u237	The absence of this provision in the law for confidence in political life was experienced by many of our fellow citizens as a betrayal, a step backwards that would hide unworthy intentions. Yet, even though I sit in the opposition, I cannot condone this suspicious judgment. For it is our Constitution that prohibits automatic sentences without modulation of the quantum by the judge, and the jurisprudence of the ECHR – the European Court of Human Rights – confirms this prohibition. We may regret that, but that, in my opinion, is the only reason for this unfulfilled promise. It is therefore in the continuity of the law for confidence in political life, to go to the end of the process, that this bill was conceived. It aims to extend the ineligibility provisions up to 30 years in certain cases and definitively for the most serious breaches, leaving the judge with the discretion of judgment associated with his or her function. It also proposes the creation of a new aggravating circumstance, linked to elected status. It is, in our view, the highest constitutional point in the search for confidence between the people and those who serve them. This view is shared by the Council of State, which, when referred to it by the President of our Assembly, has not identified any constitutional obstacles to the proposed arrangement. Like many of you, ladies and gentlemen, I am not a member of the legal panel. That is why I have appreciated the suggestions made by the Council of State to improve or consolidate the text, as well as those made by the various benches of our Assembly. Yes, this text is perfect, and several amendments have been tabled to that effect. I hope that we can discuss it, calmly, together. In conclusion, I would like to anticipate certain foreseeable criticisms. No, this proposal is not aimed at anyone in particular, but is aimed at all of us, in general. I do not have, in my political DNA, the genes of custom-made law, for or against untel or untel. No, this proposal is not a response of circumstance, intended to echo legitimate popular news. It took root in 2014, from my first political commitment. No, it is not a matter of removing from political life one elected to the slightest stupidity or inattention, at the first kick in a trash can. In the continuity of the law for confidence in political life, the conditions related to sanctions are weighed and relate only to serious or repeated breaches of probity. No, this bill is not there to fuel primary anti-parliamentarianism, but rather to allow us, here and now, all together, to say that we are proud to be elected, proud to serve the people, and that none of us has to fear this bill, because we are all committed to the values of probity. No, it is not a question of launching a race for the scald or of promoting legal inflation. It is about listening to the people and helping to restore trust, the basis of our representative democracy. Yes, other areas of public action, including senior officials, also need to be better supervised and monitored. But the essence of this proposal is to restore the integrity of trust between the people and their elected representatives, or their executive. No, we don't think we have to wait until the 2016 and 2017 system statistics are published to listen to the people. Moreover, how would they contradict the fundamentals of the text? It is not a tax measure or an economic measure, but a question of morality, which is not dependent on statistics. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, this evening we have an opportunity to return our heads high and our conscience in peace to our voters, to this people whom we serve, to tell them, with their eyes in their eyes: "I have heard you and I have listened to you! Mauruuru!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u238	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u239	It is based on Rule 58(1) of our Rules of Procedure. I would like to go back to what happened earlier, because I did not have the opportunity to speak earlier. It is intolerable in this chamber that our colleague Ruffin is threatening to publish the votes of all of us...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u240	But they're public!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u241	...and is intimidating about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u242	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u243	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u244	Please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u245	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are threats and intimidation attempts. We are Members of Parliament and we fully assume our votes. On the other hand, trying to intimidate us in order to influence our votes seems to me contrary to the very vocation of this assembly. I would like this to be included in the record.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u246	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u247	Mr. Ruffin threatened us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u248	But what? To say what's public?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u249	The majority becomes a police majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u250	These are thug methods!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u251	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u252	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u253	The requirement of probity and exemplaryness of the elected representatives, which you have referred to, asked for and convened for this bill, Mr rapporteur, and more broadly that of the public officials, is necessary, as you have said, in order to ensure the confidence of our fellow citizens in their representatives. The majority, I believe, took up this problem with arms at the opening of the legislature. I had the honour of defending before you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the Government, as early as July 2017, the two bills for confidence in political life. These texts reflected a strong commitment from candidate Emmanuel Macron. They put an end to practices that the social body no longer tolerated, such as family jobs. They have also increased the level of transparency and probity requirements, including mandate costs and conflicts of interest. In so doing, the Government and the majority supporting it, as well as the majority of the political forces that accompanied this virtuous approach, have responded to a need expressed by society. Having recently dialogued – like many of you, I imagine – with some of our fellow citizens for several weeks, in the context of the great national debate, I have seen how strong this demand remains, despite the legal arsenal in force in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u254	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u255	A question, however, deserves to be asked: do we still need to amend our texts, while the laws of 2017 came into force only a few months ago? More generally, another question arises: should we go ever further in this area to satisfy a demand that seems to be inextinguishable? It is true that the requirement of probity and exemplaryness of elected officials derives from a social, political and ethical necessity, formulated in a founding text of our nation, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen of 26 August 1789, article 15 of which states: "Society has the right to ask any public official of its administration to account. This principle of responsibility, which is the foundation of our republican democracy, has structured our entire political history. However, in recent years, new demands have emerged, reflecting a change in our relationship to power, politics and representation. Society is asking each of us to be more transparent, more rigorous and more ethical. Even yesterday, by tradition or custom, it was agreed to cover small arrangements with ethical requirements with a more or less opaque veil. Moreover, our fellow citizens themselves were not always shocked by practices that seem intolerable to them today. This time is definitely over, and it's happy. We are bound by the will of the citizens. It must naturally be translated into the rule of law and the principles of representative democracy, including a founding principle of our Republic: the separation of powers. The legislator has come to grips with these new requirements by adopting several pieces of legislation which make it possible to impose more severe penalties on those who fail to comply with the requirements of probity, in order to prevent them from taking up elected office. The Act of 11 October 2013 on the transparency of public life has already increased the term of the penalty of ineligibility from five to ten years for offences committed by a person acting as a member of the Government or an elected public office at the time of the act. The law of 15 September 2017 on confidence in political life further reinforced the requirement of probity of candidates for political elections, by allowing the removal of elected office, in a more systematic way, of persons who, because of the offences they have committed, no longer fulfil the moral conditions essential to the exercise of a public mandate. Article 1 of the Act makes it compulsory to impose a supplementary penalty of ineligibility against any person guilty of a crime or an offence mentioned therein – their enumeration in the Act had been the subject of extensive debate. The list of such crimes covers an extremely broad area. They are, for memory: assault on the integrity of the person, sexual assault, moral harassment, discrimination, fraud, abuse of trust, act of terrorism, breach of public confidence, breach of duty of probity, infringement of the action of the justice system, electoral fraud, illegal financing of political life, tax fraud, violation of the rules of transparency of political life, association of criminals, etc. The criminal courts are therefore obliged to impose such a penalty, unless otherwise decided specifically, in order to comply with the principle of individualization of sentences. Thus, anyone – I insist on the word – who has not shown that he fulfils the conditions of dignity essential to the exercise of a mandate is, as a matter of principle, excluded from elected office. The bill that you are presenting, Mr.Brotherson, and that the National Assembly is about to consider, aims to strengthen the guarantees of probity and integrity of the holders of governmental or elected public office, by extending the duration of the mandatory supplementary penalty of ineligibility for these persons. It tends to increase the maximum duration of the term from 10 to 30 years, if it is pronounced against a person acting as a member of the Government or an elected public office. It also creates a penalty of life ineligibility for such persons in certain circumstances. As I said at the moment, one can seriously question the need to introduce new legislative provisions, with regard to the probity of elected officials and members of the Government, only 18 months after the adoption of the law of 15 September 2017, while pursuing the same objective. It seems to me that it is rather good practice to start by really applying a text, before assessing it and drawing the consequences. In fact, this is the conception of the drafting of the law and the parliamentary work that drives us. This led us to consider strengthening the function of evaluating parliamentary assemblies in the draft constitutional law tabled last spring by the Government on behalf of the President of the Republic. The adjustments that you suggest would apply without being able to rely on an assessment of the application of the provisions that are being proposed for amendment for lack of sufficient setback. I repeat, it is permissible to question whether the compulsory supplementary penalty of ineligibility should be changed, even before the impact of the previous reform has really been measured. The expressive function of criminal law has virtues that I am aware of. However, putting the work back on the profession in order mainly to change the duration of the supplementary penalty of ineligibility, without demonstrating the inadequacy of the provisions adopted a few months ago, does not seem to me to allow for legislation in the most enlightened way. I would like to recall that our right already allows the compulsory declaration of the ineligibility, for a period of ten years, of a person acting as a member of the Government or a public elective office. Undoubtedly, such a length of time constitutes an effective penalty, allowing for the removal for a significant period of time of public officials whose conduct is not compatible with the exercise of an elected mandate. The deterrent nature of the measure seems to me to be assured, given its effects on what is sometimes called the desire to pursue a "political career". In the absence of truly innovative provisions, this bill will only reopen the debates we had in the summer of 2017. The adoption of a new law, 18 months after the previous one, would, in my view, have the disadvantage of being counterproductive with regard to its very objectives. I know that you do not share this view, Mr.Brotherson, since you indicated it by presenting the text; However, I wanted to share this with you. The law of 15 September 2017, which lays down strict rules of eligibility, was intended, in particular, to ensure that the elected representatives, who, in their overwhelming majority, demonstrate their commitment, honesty and rigour on a daily basis – as you have said remarkably – are no longer nailed to the pillori because of the behaviour of a few. I do not think we should add any mistrust to this by constantly legislating on this matter. The idea that the problem of the probity of elected officials is of such magnitude that it requires legislation year after year should not be allowed to take root. Finally – we will have the opportunity to come back to it during the discussion of the articles – certain provisions of the proposed text raise important legal problems and cannot be voted on as they stand. In particular, since the penalties provided for are clearly not always consistent, they do not always respect the principle of proportionality. Thus, it could result from the application of the text that a lifetime ineligibility would be incurred for the cumulation of two low-penalty offences, even though a crime – an offence of particular gravity – would only give rise to the imposition of an additional penalty of ineligibility of not more than 30 years. Furthermore, the existence of a procedure for requesting an increase in the sentence is essential in order to ensure compliance with our constitutional and treaty requirements. This proposal sets ten years after the imposition of the mandatory penalty of ineligibility the time limit by which the convicted person could apply for rehabilitation; Such a period could be considered excessive and thus contrary to the principle of individualization of the penalty, as guaranteed by article 8 of the 1789 Declaration. But I will not go into the details of the text further because, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, it seems to me that it is too early to amend our legislation in this area. The work has been done. The law now needs to be fully enforced and its effects assessed, which will be possible next year – we will have enough setbacks. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Government will not support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u256	In the general debate, Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u257	Guaranteeing the integrity of elected officials, and more broadly of public officials, is a republican requirement, as you both said, Madam Keeper of the Seals, rapporteur. As we are plunged into a deep economic and social crisis, restoring confidence to the people and lifting suspicions and suspicions on public officials are more than ever democratic imperatives. As André Malraux wrote in L'Espoir in 1937: "We don't do politics with morality, but we don't do more without it. » Exemplarity is demanded all the more strongly in a context in which business and scandals follow each other and regularly counter any ambition in this field, yet displayed in successive presidential speeches on the exemplary, irreproachable or moral Republic. Following the Cahuzac case, President François Hollande called for a "moralization shock", which resulted in the adoption of the organic and ordinary laws of 11 October 2013 relating to the transparency of public life. These have marked a series of significant advances. They have established a set of principles and means to prevent fraud, corruption and attacks on probity. You recalled, Madam Keeper of the Seals, in the continuity of these 2013 laws, the organic and ordinary laws for confidence in political life of 15 September 2017 also aimed to strengthen the transparency of political life and its financing, as well as the requirement of probity and exemplaryness of elected officials. While these various measures constitute notable improvements, the restoration of the French's bond of trust with their elected officials and institutions is not achieved, far from that. The news sadly teaches us that much progress still needs to be made in terms of example: 67% of French people believe that Emmanuel Macron's election has not changed anything. With this in mind, the bill put forward by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left at the initiative of our colleague Moetai Brotherson aims to strengthen the guarantees of probity and integrity of the holders of a government function or of a public elective mandate. It is in line with previous laws, in particular the Act of 15 September 2017 on confidence in political life, which made it compulsory to impose the additional penalty of ineligibility in respect of any person guilty of a crime or offence listed in article 131-26-2 of the Criminal Code. Some 40 of these offences, of varying nature and gravity, are subject to different punishments ranging from three months to ten years' imprisonment. There are many of them; I had planned to list them, but I won't come back because Mrs. Keeper of the Seals did. Article 1 of our bill consolidates this provision by increasing the maximum of the mandatory supplementary penalty of ineligibility from 10 to 30 years when it is imposed on a person acting as a member of the Government or an elected public office at the time of the act, in the case of a crime provided for by law or an offence included in the list cited by Mrs. It even provides that ineligibility could be pronounced for life in the event of multiple infringements. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Council of State, in its opinion of 14 February, considers that constitutional and treaty requirements do not preclude the possibility that a supplementary sentence of life ineligible may be provided for by law, provided that, in response to a need, it is not manifestly disproportionate in relation to the offence it punishes, that it is individualized by the judge and that during its execution the convicted person may request a remedy. These clarifications seem essential to me. Our bill, in articles 1 and 3, expressly provides for the possibility for the convicted person to request the judge, after a certain period of time, to increase his or her sentence in order to recover his or her right of eligibility. With regard to the aggravating circumstance arising from the exercise of elected office or as a member of the Government, established in article 2, we considered it essential that the above-mentioned offences and crimes committed by elected officials or members of the Government in the performance of their duties be punished more severely. The display of severe sentences is, beyond the symbol, a way to empower all holders of elected office and government functions. However, we are fully aware that the quantum of the penalty incurred will not, on its own, be able to combat offences of probity. The challenge also lies in the number of probity offences prosecuted. In this regard, the Anticor association points out that in 2016, of the 252 convictions for breach of probity, 169 were sentenced to imprisonment, or 67%; Among them, 38 decisions included imprisonment in whole or in part. The average quantum of imprisonment is just over a year. A fine was also imposed in 110 convictions, i.e. in more than four out of ten convictions, with the average amount of firm fines amounting to €9095. I would also like to stress that this text, in the interests of transparency and rigour, has been submitted to the Council of State. It's very rare. This procedure given to parliamentarians, which dates back to the 2008 constitutional review, was used in total only a dozen times – I myself used it three or four years ago for a bill that was then passed by the National Assembly. The approach taken by Moetai Brother, this desire to submit the text for consideration and thus make it unattainable, should be emphasized. It is a procedure that is insufficiently used, particularly for legislative proposals on the agenda of parliamentary niches. I invite you to take note of the observations made by the Council of State, not to justify referring the text back to committee, as has been done – which is not very correct – but on the contrary to adopt the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, which respond precisely to these observations. The examination of this text takes place in a serious context marked by anti-parliamentarianism and the questioning of the probity of elected officials. According to the barometer published by CEVIPOF – Sciences Po's Political Research Centre – in January 2019, the last decade is considered black for the French' confidence in politics. Every one of us suffers! The organization thus highlights the decline in confidence in almost all political institutions, with the exception of the municipal council, the only political body recording an increase. Among the qualities expected of a political leader, honesty is valued at 62% to inspire confidence. It's an ethical request. The poet Reverdy wrote: "Ethics is the aesthetic of the inside. That is the requirement we must have. Finally, for 77% of those surveyed – it's huge – France is not giving itself the means to fight the corruption of elected officials! In this specific context, we believe that further progress is needed in order to restore confidence to the people, although it seems essential to recall that the unacceptable behaviour of some should not cast reproach on all others, the vast majority of elected officials and public officials whose daily commitment to the service of our fellow citizens must be applauded. I wanted to say that in closing my remarks. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The goal of Moetai Brother and our group is to raise suspicion. It is more necessary than ever to adopt strong texts, complementary to previous texts. It's not too early for that, Madam Keeper of the Seals. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u258	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u259	For the past four months, we have seen more than ever how the fundamentals of our Republic have been shaken by the increased mistrust between citizens and their representatives. This ditch was not born on November 17, with the beginning of the yellow vest demonstrations. No, in reality, the legislator has long understood the need to renovate political life in order to restore a true bond of trust between the French people and their representatives. While the bill we are considering today is in line with this logic, the Liberties and Territories Group believes, however, that it does not provide an adequate response to the democratic crisis that we are going through, for three main reasons, which I am going to develop. First of all, this text too stigmatizes, in our opinion, the elected, all the elected. However, these are essential at a time when the French strongly express a need for proximity and listening. Today the chosen one crystallizes all the treachery, all the mistrust. However, I clearly want to reaffirm that the vast majority of elected officials are women and men who exercise their mandate with probity, conscience and dedication. They are committed to serving our fellow citizens by having the general interest as their sole objective. When continuous information channels and social networks talk about privileges, absenteeism, conflicts of interest, these elected officials are on the ground, in contact with their fellow citizens, listening to their expectations, giving their time and energy not to count on improving the daily lives of the French. How can such a mismatch between the daily reality of elected officials and the perception that our fellow citizens have of their commitment be possible? The problem, in my view, lies mainly in the lack of information on the role of the elected representative. That is why Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group believe that we must act on this lever to begin to restore confidence between politicians and citizens. This is what our Co-President Bertrand Pancher proposed to the Prime Minister last Monday at a working meeting on violence against elected officials. This is also the reality of mistrust: 117 acts, attacks or threats against parliamentarians in recent months. Here I want to testify to my colleagues who have been victims of it all my confidence and, above all, all my compassion – I've had some trouble myself, but I don't know what others have been through. More confidence also requires more powers and responsibilities for elected officials, both for Parliament and for local and regional authorities. That is what my group is constantly defending. Nor are we in favour of this text because there is no point in adding laws to laws without giving time to previous texts to demonstrate their effectiveness. The various majorities have legislated to restore the bond of trust between politicians and our fellow citizens. Thus, in 2013, the Parliament adopted the Law on Transparency in Public Life and the Law on Combating Tax Fraud and Large Economic and Financial Crime; In 2016, Parliament passed the Sapin 2 Act; in 2017, we passed the law for confidence in political life. The latest laws are therefore relatively recent, and I believe that there is no point in relegating them to strengthen sanctions against elected officials. Let us be pragmatic and responsible and first assess the effectiveness of these new provisions. Indeed, I fear that with this bill, we would still cast a little more reproach on all those elected, while they need a real statute, which would define their rights and duties. That is what the local elected representatives, whom I consulted during last week's major national debate in my constituency, forcefully stated. Ladies and gentlemen, like all of you here, we believe that trust between citizens and elected officials is essential. However, unlike you, Mr rapporteur, we are convinced that the latter must be fed by a direct link between politics and the citizen, not by an accumulation of laws, which end up stigmatizing elected officials. In the moments we are living, it is for this reason that this bill does not seem relevant to me. Let us leave time to time, and let us not add to our legislative arsenal a text which the Council of State questions not only the necessity, so soon after the law of 15 September 2017, but also the relevance, because this bill does not seem to be able to fulfil its objectives of repression and deterrence. In addition to its improbable ability to achieve its objectives better than current positive law, several of its technical aspects challenge us. Article 1, for example, seems unconstitutional to us with regard to the disproportion of the supplementary penalty of ineligibility for life in the event of a plurality of offences. In addition, the specific procedure for raising children under paragraph 3 of this article should be included not in the Penal Code, as you propose, but in the Code of Criminal Procedure. More generally, the vagueness of many references in your bill seems to us to be a real difficulty in interpreting, when our duty as legislator requires that the law be fully intelligible. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group believes that your text, apart from not being useful as it stands, will add confusion to a legal framework that has not yet had the opportunity to demonstrate its effectiveness. Mr rapporteur, you want public action to be exemplary, and we agree with you. With this text, you seem to be right for those who think that it is better to be appointed than elected, even though we owe our legitimacy to our voters. Yes, we need to go further on probity and transparency in public action, but, as I have pointed out, texts already exist for elected officials. We must now continue to make copies of all the links in the chain of public action. As my colleague, Paul Molac, was able to say in committee, we also need to reform the senior public service. The Libertés et territoires group would have liked your bill to address this lack, one of the main shortcomings of the 2017 Moralisation Act. There are indeed risks in the senior public service of collusion with large companies, conflicts of interest and sometimes, let's say, unbearable opacity over the remuneration and benefits available to some senior public servants. There is no question here of maintaining the culture of suspicion about French public service, which, moreover, fulfils their duties well, but, as has been the case with elected officials, an effective mechanism must be put in place to prevent and punish the abuse of certain agents, which undermines the reputation of all others. We must continue to moralize the senior public service. While the framework applicable to civil servants has been radically revised with the Law of 20 April 2016 on the Ethics and Rights and Obligations of Civil Servants, it appears that this body of law is not sufficiently monitored. That is why we consider it essential to also strengthen the rules of transparency and control of the senior public service. Ladies and gentlemen, the unconditional example that the GDR Group wishes to introduce cannot be achieved with the provisions of this bill. Its adoption, I fear, would only fuel a little more suspicion and distrust towards the elected ones. Our legal arsenal has been strengthened in this area, and we welcome it. On the contrary, the proposed text is incomplete because, as I said, it does not take sufficient account of all the links in the chain of public action. I hope that we will return to this point. That is why we must continue to move together towards greater transparency for all and better control for all. Our fellow citizens ask us to do so; the proper functioning of our democracy demands it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u260	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-07-O1169.u261	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the bill to strengthen the integrity of elected office and national representation; Discussion of the proposed law in favour of transparency on the use of popular energy savings. The meeting is adjourned.
