ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of a bill authorizing the ratification of an international treaty and two bills authorizing the approval of international agreements (No. 1020, 1573; 1182, 1666; 1124, 1664). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put to the vote each of them, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u2	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u3	This point of order relates to the conduct of the meeting. According to the green paper published last week, on this morning's agenda, a bill authorizing the approval of a protocol between France and Djibouti on the powers of the Provost Marshal in Djibouti's territory was scheduled for consideration. However, this discussion was deleted from the agenda. Our group believed that this was due to the need to create space to debate the bill for a school of trust, but the reality seems quite different. Indeed, we are hearing that a judicial operation took place this week against Mr. Mohamed Kadamy, President of the Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy in Djibouti. Would France be preparing to deliver a political refugee? Would political asylum no longer exist? Would the combos and other bass work become the rule, the DNA of our diplomacy? With this point of order, our group denounces the fact that our House has become its accomplice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u4	I remind you that the agenda is set by the Government. In this case, it was reviewed at the Conference of Presidents. However, I take note of your statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u5	The next item is the debate on the draft law, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the convention between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg with a view to avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion and fraud with regard to taxes on income and capital (No. 1507, 1663).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u6	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u7	Mr President, Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, ladies and gentlemen, with 125 bilateral tax treaties, France has the largest conventional network in the world, covering no less than 97% of our imports and 98% of our exports. These tax treaties allow, as you know, to lay down rules for the division of the right to impose between France and foreign states. By preventing double taxation, they provide legal certainty to the residents of each State, natural or legal person. They can also be an economic tool for the development of direct investment and the fight against tax evasion. This network of tax treaties needs to be regularly updated in order to take into account the latest international standards in this field. This is the object of the convention signed in Paris, after two years of negotiations, on March 20, 2018, that the Government proposes this morning for the approval of your assembly. France and Luxembourg are bound by a tax convention signed in 1958, the purpose of which is to avoid double taxation and to lay down rules for reciprocal administrative assistance in relation to taxes on income and on capital. The Convention has been amended four times since it was signed. At the request of France, the conclusion of amendments in 2006 and 2014 had, in particular, put an end to certain tax evasion schemes by providing for the taxation of real estate gains instead of the situation of the property to which they relate, whether carried out directly or by an interposed undertaking. As a result of its seniority, this agreement, you doubt, requires a general modernisation in order to adapt it to the current principles of international taxation. France is very active in all multilateral fora to have a high level of regulatory and regulatory ambition. Luxembourg is an important economic partner for France: in 2017, the volume of trade between the two countries was no less than EUR 4 billion, and France was the second largest customer and third largest supplier in Luxembourg. In an international context in which the fight against the erosion of tax bases has become a priority – something we are delighted about – it has become essential for France, in its fiscal relations with that State, to develop appropriate tools to counter abusive situations. [[Rires on the benches of the GDR group]] One of the main advances of this Convention is the integration of provisions from the OECD project – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – to combat the erosion of taxable bases and the transfer of profits, known as "BEPS". For example, article 28 of the Convention contains a general anti-abuse clause against assembly with a primary tax purpose, as well as a new preamble stating that the object of the Convention is, inter alia, to eliminate double taxation without creating the possibility of non-taxation. In addition to the most recent OECD standards for combating tax evasion and avoidance, for example with regard to information exchange or recovery assistance, this Convention introduces a more precise definition of tax residence, in line with French conventional practice, aimed at preventing double non-taxation situations. Another important step forward is the introduction of new rules for the definition of permanent establishment as revised in the BEPS project. They will make it possible to better distribute the taxation of profits between France and Luxembourg, in particular by calling into question schemes consisting of artificially locating commercial activities abroad or assembly aimed at fragmenting the functions of an enterprise within several entities. In this regard, it should be stressed that Luxembourg agreed in this bilateral negotiation to take over all the options made by France under the multilateral convention for the implementation of BEPS measures, even when it had not itself chosen them. This is therefore a concession made by Luxembourg to France under our very high-quality bilateral relationship, as evidenced by the Grand Duke's State visit last year and the working meetings with Prime Minister Xavier Bettel. Quantifying the effects of a tax treaty on public finances is a rather complex exercise, requiring the mobilisation of data that are not always available to government services. But this may have a positive effect on public finances, since these stricter standards should allow for additional revenue to be collected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u8	"Porra"! Nothing's safer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u9	Thus, a withholding tax will be levied in France on certain French-source royalties paid in Luxembourg, whereas they are currently taxable only in that country. I want to give an immediate answer to the murmurs: the word "can" was only a style clause!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u10	We'll see about that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u11	These new provisions will also permit the imposition in each State of capital gains by natural persons resulting from the transfer of a substantial shareholding in the capital of a company established in its territory. Thus, the owner of holdings exceeding 15% in a French company that would have to leave France to settle in Luxembourg would still be taxable in France for the sale of such securities up to five years after his departure, which is not the case today. This is clearly a significant improvement. Finally, the new Convention takes account of the situation of cross-border workers residing in France by introducing a rule allowing them, for reasons of administrative simplification, to remain subject to tax in the State in which they are employed when they telework less than 30 days a year from their State of residence. This must be seen in the light of both the development of working conditions and the wishes of employees for greater flexibility. The elected representatives of border territories here know how much cross-border workers need to see their lives facilitated. Ultimately, this Convention will strengthen economic trade and investment between France and Luxembourg while fully aligning itself with the Government's priority in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are the main elements that I wanted to bring to your knowledge, hoping that this convention could gain the force of law in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u12	Mr Frédéric Petit, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u13	On 1 January 2019, the multilateral convention that translates part of the OECD plan to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits into action entered into force in France. Ten years after the beginning of the economic crisis, this benchmark signals a change in the rules of taxation. This multilateral instrument has the effect of instantly modifying all mutual tax treaties between signatory countries. This unprecedented operation has the immense advantage of avoiding the need to negotiate, sign and ratify each of these conventions once again. If we have before us this Convention, which, in large part, is simply applying the OECD benchmark, to which Luxembourg is also a signatory, it is for two reasons. On the one hand, Luxembourg agreed, within the framework of this Convention, to go much further towards France than it had accepted in the multilateral framework. It is therefore not a part but almost all of the multilateral instrument and even beyond that can be applied between our two countries. On the other hand, to be ambitious, the OECD model does not cover the entire scope of bilateral conventions, in particular the evolution of each country's domestic law and some new issues such as the phenomenon of cross-border workers. The renegotiation of France's fiscal relations with Luxembourg required a debate in Parliament, as it took place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Yes, this country has shown itself by its unfair practice of tax recriminations and its very advantageous taxation. But Luxembourg is now on the road to normalisation, for two main reasons: on the one hand, it is sensitive to the criticisms of its European partners and the international community; On the other hand, it is increasingly aware of its economic dependence on its large neighbours. Let us say clearly: this convention reflects real progress. In a very concrete way, income that had so far escaped tax in France can now be taxed there. First of all, there are advances in the resumption of the multilateral acquis. The new agreement offers, for example, the possibility for the administration to refuse the benefits provided for in the agreement when a set-up has been designed solely for tax purposes. This provision will a priori make it possible to fight effectively against those whom I call "legal cheaters" from the moment of intent, without the right being forced to constantly catch them according to their new finds.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u14	There you go! You have to be imaginative!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u15	Moreover, the new Convention redefines the concept of a permanent establishment, a concept that enables companies to be taxed in the countries in which they actually operate. The text goes into detail to counter the multiple forms of circumvention of permanent establishment status. This is a particularly interesting provision since Luxembourg had not subscribed to it under the multilateral agreement. There is also progress in this Convention that goes beyond the OECD framework. This is the case with the so-called "substantial participation" clause. A Luxembourg resident who sells shares of a French company is in principle subject to tax in Luxembourg. It will now be imposed in France if it gives up a substantial shareholding, i.e. more than 25%. France will finally be able to impose on entrepreneurs who move their companies to Luxembourg – usually just before – to benefit from a more advantageous tax on the sale of shares of their companies. This practice, which is very difficult to quantify, is well known in the divestitures of small and medium-sized enterprises. The agreement offers counterparties in Luxembourg. Social security pensions remain taxed in the State of source, whereas France would have had an interest in their being taxed in the State of residence. Given the number of frontier workers – more than 100,000 – the place of taxation of these future pensioners will be an increasingly important financial challenge in the years to come, as cross-border workers retire. Finally, I would like to avoid any misunderstanding: this convention will give France the means to better impose financial flows to Luxembourg or which are sometimes artificially located there, but it is not intended to bring French and Luxembourg taxation into convergence; It is a necessary first step before fiscal harmonisation, which, although desirable, is still far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u16	It's not going to happen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u17	I would like to devote my remaining time to the issues that affect the border dimension. Cross-border workers have the characteristic of living in one country and working in another. In the vast majority of cases as far as we are concerned, they are people who live in France and work in Luxembourg. Since they work there and are therefore physically present there during the vast majority of the days of the year, these employees are liable for their income tax in Luxembourg. Their presence on French territory translates into high expenditure on public services, without France and the Mosellan or brute-et-mosellanes communities getting a fair return on taxes. This situation poses a real problem, as it results in impoverishment of the border regions, in which people are living in very well-paid areas. Luxembourg has become aware of this imbalance and of the costs of its workforce for public services in France, but also in Wallonia and Saarland. In the short term, in order to produce a driving effect, it would be desirable to strengthen Franco-Luxembourg co-financing in the framework of projects of common interest. This solution has the advantage of being accepted by Luxembourg and of empowering the two countries around the balanced development of the region. In my view, however, these co-financings cannot be limited to the infrastructure directly necessary for this cross-border flow, but must also contribute to the financing of general public services, in particular public services of local attractiveness – schools, training and culture. In the medium term, France and Luxembourg could systematize the existing agreement between the canton of Geneva and the departments of Ain and Haute-Savoie, for example, which could serve as a model for setting up so-called "compensatory transfers". This solution, apparently fair, would, in my view, favour the maintenance of the status quo. It is too static in the case of cross-border space, which is very homogeneous, called the "Saarlorlux" or the "Mosellan furrow". I would point out that Luxembourg has become aware of its great dependence on the labour force which comes from its three major neighbours, of this daily infusion and of the structural fragility of this organisation if the cross-border space is not rebalanced in the direction of stable and shared co-development. The public debate in Luxembourg is about labour shortages in large regions or the taxation of Luxembourg road drivers, which is becoming much less interesting because of the patient adoption of these new conventions. The ultimate solution is the creation of a cross-border region that would lead to a comprehensive and coherent co-development plan, the financing and control of which would be common. Such an experiment, carried out at the level of Saarland, the Lorrain furrow and Wallonia, could serve as a laboratory for progress towards fiscal harmonisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u18	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u19	I was therefore quite surprised by the positions taken by some opposition groups. I confess that I do not understand how we can reasonably vote against this approval, if not because we are not aware of it or because we want to shake labels and flags that are simplifying.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u20	We're stupid, stupid! That's it! While you, Mr. Rapporteur, are so intelligent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u21	Please, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u22	Some people want to vote against this text on the grounds that we would be just a recording chamber. That's not true. First of all, for a hundred years now, international treaties are still being negotiated by the executive – we will be celebrating, in a few weeks' time, the ratification by Parliament of the Armistice Treaties. This is also not true, because precisely, if we do not approve this new convention, or if the Luxembourg Parliament does not ratify it, it will simply not enter into force; The 1958 Convention would then automatically be renewed, within the framework of the OECD system, which would constitute a mistake, a abandonment of the concessions obtained by our Executive. Others are calling for retaliation against our neighbours, who have been stealing from us for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u23	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u24	Beyond the big words, how do you propose to move forward if you already reject the achievements of this convention? Do you want to block the work that goes on in bilateral negotiations, in cross-border negotiations, in regional negotiations? Do you want economic or administrative war, more or less cold war with a neighbouring country? This convention is certainly only a step, but it is an indispensable step, for greater efficiency and tax justice, in view of the efforts that must be made. Others dispute the legitimacy of negotiating with a country they call a tax haven.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u26	I will be interested in the effectiveness of the device. I would point out that to vote against the approval of this new convention is to endorse a situation which always allows entrepreneurs to move to Luxembourg just before the sale of their company, to the Lorrain service companies, employing residents in Lorraine, working for Lorrain customers, in the Lorrain territory, to move to Esch-sur-Alzette, etc. Those who will vote against, will vote worse for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u27	So we're bad French?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u28	I call Mr Paluszkiewicz, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u29	Sixty years: it is the number of years that separate us from the last tax treaty signed between France and Luxembourg. After the signing of only four amendments to this Convention, we obviously had to modernise it. This new convention, presented this morning, is the culmination of only two rounds of negotiations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Three points in particular deserve to be stressed, after our discussions in committees. My first point relates to the context in which this bilateral tax convention fits in: the regime defined by the OECD. It is a declination of the multilateral instrument to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, also known as the BEPS project. The latter tackles a real burden: tax evasion and fraud, which lead to a loss of revenue for the public treasury, undermine national solidarity and undermine tax consent. Despite many reservations about the multilateral instrument, Luxembourg has subsequently shown its determination to draw up a convention which best covers the various fields required by the current tax issues and which serves, at best, the interests of our two countries in this field. Whether it is a question of avoiding non-taxation or double exemptions, whether it is a question of defining the concept of permanent establishment, of enacting a general anti-abuse clause or of legislating on the modalities of taxation of dividends, this text goes much further than most bilateral tax treaties, signed for example with the Netherlands, Belgium or Switzerland. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] We're measuring the progress we've made. We can only welcome this, even if we must be aware that this convention remains perfect, since it will never be enough to completely eliminate tax fraud and evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u30	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u31	This is indeed a tax convention and not a tax harmonisation convention. That is the nuance, and the issues of digital and road transport will have to be discussed. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is an essential partner who, since the LuxLeaks case, has worked in partnership with the European Commission to develop new internal rules to limit the creation of abusive montages. More commonly referred to as "tax rescripts", these have been reduced massively, with Luxembourg showing increasing transparency, let's say. Should it be recalled that, in the OECD's transparency rating, Luxembourg has moved from "non-compliant" to "widely compliant" – the same as that of the United States, Germany or Italy – and that the country is no longer classified on any blacklist? So, for some, here and there, everywhere and elsewhere, including in this House, Luxembourg, in the light of all the international conventions, is no longer a tax haven.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u32	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u33	As far as the procedure for adopting this text is concerned, Members of all political parties regretted the shortness of the impact assessment, in my view. As draftsman of the opinion, I wanted to remind the teams of the Ministry of Finance that we all share here the conviction that the work done by the administrations on these impact assessments must be extremely rigorous. This is the meaning of article 8 of the Organic Act of 15 April 2009. While the referral to the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs has enabled us to obtain additional information, for example on the number of tax shelters or the arrangements for the presence of board members, there is no doubt that the work in this area has been insufficient. Authorities must provide an assessment of the expected financial costs and benefits of a bill. Before concluding, I would like to dwell on another point of procedure, which requires that we bring all the necessary clarity to the debate: what a surprise to hear, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, criticism of the impossibility for Members of Parliament to negotiate such conventions! Should I remind you that article 52 of our Constitution provides that the President of the Republic has a monopoly on this matter? He "negotiates and ratifies the treaties"? Parliament has never, for any other text, been required to negotiate the provisions of a convention. To those who criticise a denial of democracy, I therefore recall the procedure, valid for all States in the world: the executive negotiates; Parliament, pursuant to Article 53 of the Constitution, ratifies all conventions relating to sovereign matters; the administrative judge, for his part, carries out a control, each remembering the famous jurisprudence of the Council of State of 1998 concerning the business park of Blotzheim.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u34	That doesn't make much difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u35	I am therefore surprised, as Finance Commissioner, to have to remind many opposition foreign affairs commissioners of the modalities of the ratification procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In view of the above regarding this Convention, which will apply on 1 January 2020 in our territory, the Finance Committee, having examined the text for its opinion, has delivered an opinion in favour of the adoption of this bill. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u36	Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u37	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the committee, Frédéric Petit, and to the draftsman, Xavier Paluszkiewicz, who has just spoken in the rostrum! Let us recall the main objectives of this Convention: the strengthening of the legal certainty of cross-border economic actors; The reduction of double taxation cases; and above all the intensification of the fight against tax evasion and optimisation. This last point is, in my view, the most important objective. Tax circumvention represents a huge loss for public finances. For France, the OECD estimates the cost of corporate tax of between 2.4 billion and 6 billion euros each year. This behaviour is all the more reprehensible since companies that optimize their taxes abroad are often large users of public infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u38	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u40	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] This situation undermines tax citizenship. We measure the consequences: when citizens lose confidence in taxation, social cohesion is at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u41	All right, ma'am de Sarnez!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u42	Since the 2008 financial crisis, the international community has placed the fight against tax evasion among its priorities. This awareness led to the adoption of the OECD multilateral convention, which now has eighty-seven signatories. The European Union, for its part, has committed itself to this fight by strengthening tax transparency between Member States and putting an end to some of the most damaging tax practices. Last summer, by supporting the OECD model, our assembly demonstrated its commitment to reducing tax evasion and optimisation. A joint fact-finding mission of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance has been set up to take stock of the fight against border installations; the Commission should make new proposals in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u43	It's got to be!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u44	The convention we are looking at this morning will lead France to impose a larger part of the financial flows that are heading towards Luxembourg to benefit from more advantageous tax rates. However, for lack of details in the impact assessment, we do not have a quantitative estimate of the amount that this agreement should bring to the public treasury, which is more than regrettable. By tackling tax evasion in practice, this Convention is a step forward, but – I insist on the « but » – I think we will all agree on these issues to regret that this text does not contain any reference to the necessary European tax harmonisation, because the root of the problem is that of competition between European States, which is unfair, unfair and incivious. This situation has been going on for far too long. The solution, we all know on these benches, lies in an active and voluntary policy of tax harmonisation at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u45	There! Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u46	This is the only answer to really tackle the tax dumping that many countries are engaging in.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u47	All right, ma'am de Sarnez!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u48	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] It is also the only possible way, with social harmonisation, if we want to restore trust between the citizens and the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u49	All right, ma'am de Sarnez!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, FI and GDR groups]] It is therefore very important – as I say to the draftsman – that our Parliament should take up these major issues, these major objectives, and act in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u51	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group a motion of rejection in advance, tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u52	Madam President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you have just spoken out as an insomnia; I congratulate you. Each of us is indeed entering into a debate like this through the door that suits him, and it is possible to participate in it with respect for others. We do not share the conclusion but, on the premises, we agree. It is important that this be heard in the National Assembly. I have known the rapporteur of the committee, who has come before me on a more delicate basis in other circumstances; He did not need to call all those who were not in his opinion bad French or to characterize them as people who were inherently incapable of understanding the benefits that this convention might bring. I will not tell you that everything in it is bad, but we are a parliament, we are discussing and we can have another assessment of the balance of power to be established with Luxembourg. If we do not have anything special about the people of this country, the same is not true of its governments, but that is not even the question. The question, Mrs de Sarnez asked a moment ago: it is that of the extent of tax fraud and optimisation. Indeed, talking about fraud is not enough! Those who cheat are thugs and criminals, but there are also those who do tax optimization,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u53	Legal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u54	...that is, who use legal devices to evade the obligations that morals commands, and who recognize it. We are not talking about a small phenomenon! How many times have we heard on these benches social fraud when it represents peanuts for the state budget, nothing, a little something after the comma! While here we refer to a phenomenon which represents 80 billion lost profits for France and the State. A quarter of the latter's revenue! A year and a half of debt service! The public deficit of the French nation is 67 billion and we miss 80 billion every year because of these thugs and thieves! The state budget would be in surplus if everyone did their duty. And who doesn't? I am certainly not targeting some unfortunate tax fraudsters here or there, but very large companies, which deliberately weaken the state budget. I am talking about France, and it is the same in Europe: every year, 1000 billion euros are exempt from tax, or 50% of the total wealth produced by France in one year, six years of the European Union budget, forty-seven years of France's contributions to the Union budget. These figures are, in a way, aimed at humanising, in a way, sums that are eventually lost to what they really represent. Yes, 1000 billion is as if France stopped paying its contribution to Europe for forty-seven years! Well, these people do it in one year! In these circumstances, when the Luxembourg dossier arrives, whatever the content of the text we are discussing, it is normal not only to welcome progress and progress, but also to point out the unique responsibility of this State, within the European Union, for the organisation of a system of tax avoidance which has since been contagious. [[Smile]] Arrange in the Prime Minister's office from a posted legal tax rate, it's called a tax rescript – you might as well call it unhold-up or a racket but no, it's a rescript. Well, rescripts have spread all over Europe. Their number has increased by 156 per cent. So let us not be told that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, suddenly seized by the grace of morality and virtue, adopts such magnificent and exemplary behaviour that the example spreads throughout Europe! The opposite has happened: the impunity which Luxembourg enjoyed for so many years has been a school. Here is what Luxembourg is: one head office for six inhabitants, 3,500 billion financial assets, or 64 times its GDP. What a wonder! What an economic model! How we'd like to do the same! We would do it with legal, normal methods, but they would do it by cunning and cautele! This micro-territory hosts 143 branches of banks and 900 subsidiaries of French companies! They're all over there. To do what? To cheat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u55	[[At 10.10 a.m., Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. Sylvain Waserman in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u56	Luxembourg issues twice as much cash as its total GDP! Twice as much! Imagine what it would do for our country's economy if we did the same! Every time a conflict breaks out with a multinational company, we discover a Luxembourg floor. This was the case with McDonald's, where brave people did what they could to try to improve their social situation, without excessive demands. Out of cruelty, the leaders closed restaurants one after the other, here and there, to expel from them the unfortunate ones who had sometimes worked there for years. Well, at the end of the chain, it was found that McDonald's avoided paying 700 million taxes in France between 2009 and 2013, due to a particular position occupied in Luxembourg that allows them this huge circumvention. I assure you that not one Member, on any bench, finds this normal, whatever the reason we might not agree on how to remedy such a situation. But this company is not the only one. Amazon signed a tax agreement with Luxembourg in 2003: this large company, which is so often heard, pays no corporate taxes, none, while it realizes three-quarters of its profits in Europe. The European leaders, considering that it was still a lot and that it was beginning to show up, eventually moved. In January 2018, Mr Moscovici, the Commissioner specializing in the matter, drew up a list of tax havens. We then thought that measures would finally be taken... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, These are tax havens for others, not for Europe, because Mr Moscovici said that there are no tax havens in Europe. If, like all the normal people who look at the accounts, you think Luxembourg is one, well, you are wrong: Mr Moscovici will tell you that the problems are elsewhere; as a matter of principle, no country in the European Union is there. It does not include Ireland, which does not impose any corporate tax on anyone, especially Apple, a small neighbourhood shop whose moving situation gives rise to the greatest pity and calls for a reduction in the tax burden: the multinational Apple pays 0.005% of corporate tax. Nor will Luxembourg, of course, be found there, nor will the Netherlands, the base of Nike – still a modest shop – nor Malta, which immaculates all yachts wishing to wear its flag, since they do not pay any taxes on registration there. It all ended up coming out, and we can still talk about it. It can be said, however, that if there had not been what was called the "LuxLeaks", no one would have known the extent of the arrangements that Mr Juncker – who had in the meantime become President of the European Commission – had made in the secrecy of his office. The LuxLeaks, revealed in 2014, was the biggest scandal of tax evasion, revealed thanks to a consortium of newspapers and the action of two whistleblowers who would deserve France to give them the Legion of Honour: Antoine Deltour and Raphaël Halet. Mr Juncker's tax rewrits – tax arrangements and combinations – have concerned how many large companies with which sympathies have developed? One, two? No! Not one or two, not ten, not twenty! Three hundred! Mr Juncker has signed 300 special agreements with 300 different multinational companies so that they pay less corporate tax! And all this in secret, because the official corporate tax rate in Luxembourg has not changed. The display remained the same and it was possible to compare us in order to bruise ourselves by beating our octopus: we do less well, etc. They had absolutely nothing to do with it because, in office combinations, they set lower rates for companies. It is the great repatriation of international profits to mailboxes in Luxembourg, which have no reality, if not a postal address. As I said, 900 French companies have a seat there. I am not saying that all are mailboxes, but I suspect that is the case with a number of them. Zion, why would they all be there? I quote again companies that have benefited from rescripts: Apple, Amazon, Ikea, Heinz, Deutsche Bank. They are certainly not small businesses! There are also fifty-six French companies who cheat with their country and feel no shame to behave like this, leaving in Luxembourg not to contribute to the effort of the homeland for all its needs: schools, roads, hospitals! They will hide and then come and teach us how to manage public money, to which they refuse to contribute! These are traitors! They must be named : Axa, LVMH, Caisse d'Epargne, Banque Populaire, BNP-Paribas, CNP Assurances! All these people do not do their duty and then come, haughty and grandiose, giving lessons and chasing the unfortunate ones who are in the red at the end of the month, invoking the obligation that each one has to keep his accounts! But how can we keep the accounts of the French nation when these people refuse to take their part, as the law requires them to do? It deserves to be angry and to come to the rostrum and say what is really happening, so that we do not just hear that with this new agreement, everything will be better, because, for the moment, nothing is settled. Luxembourg has not given up its tax rescripts, as we must say in the rostrum, ladies and gentlemen, without which the ronron will continue and we will once again succeed in rolling these brave French, a bit of a fool. Well, no, there are other people to act in the same way as we do. After 2014 and the diffusion of the LuxLeaks, justice, with its consummated art of the pillori, pursued for four years those who had wanted to defend honesty and morality, Mr. Antoine Deltour and Mr. Raphaël Halet: they were the subject of a real inquisition, subjected to searches and maneuvers, so much so that they were condemned and not those they had denounced! Mr.Antoine Deltour was sentenced in first instance to 12 months' suspended imprisonment and then on appeal to six months' suspended prison and 1500 euros' fine – it was indeed the penalty of chasing him for three years – before he was obviously completely released in cassation, but not on the merits, on 11 January 2018. For four years, this man was persecuted for no reason, while he should have been congratulated and decorated! Mr Raphaël Halet was sentenced at first instance to nine months' suspended imprisonment and 1000 euros fine, reduced to 1000 euros fine on appeal. As his cassation appeal was dismissed, he appealed Luxembourg to the European Court of Human Rights, and his application was accepted on 11 February 2019. After receiving this treatment, it is likely that it will be relieved to learn that a convention will now put an end to all problems, except for his and those of other persons who demonstrate morals by making denunciations. The culprit of this situation has a name: it was Mr Juncker who organized all this deliberately from Luxembourg and boasted about it! Like others, it considered that the relative advantage, the comparative advantage to which its country could benefit, lay in the tax matter. He took up the Barroso doctrine, which himself explained that, since there is no longer enough money to abound the structural funds, it is up to each European country to pay its investments through social or fiscal dumping. Mr Juncker served as Prime Minister of Luxembourg from 1995 to 2013. Previously, he had been Luxembourg Minister of Finance from 1989 to 2009 and President of the Eurogroup from 2005 to 2013; Since 2014, he has chaired the European Commission. In other words, one of the central figures in European life on tax issues was the one who organized, in his own country, ways of circumventing the rules he recommended for others to apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u57	That means everything on the European model!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u58	Mr Juncker denied having known, as Minister of Finance and then Prime Minister, the tax rescripts signed by the Luxembourg tax administration with 340 multinationals. We really wonder what he was doing! But he's lying! In 2014, Amazon's tax officer stated in an interview that he had personally met with Mr Juncker to negotiate the establishment of the company in Luxembourg. In 2017, The Guardian revealed – without being denied – the existence of diplomatic cables showing that Luxembourg had blocked anti-escape arrangements at European level while Mr Juncker was Prime Minister. There is no need to be an unsub to indignation. You heard the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs do that a few moments ago, and I am sure that many of us here think the same thing. It is not acceptable for Luxembourg to have blocked procedures, obliging Member States to submit their relations with multinationals to their peers; it is not acceptable that Luxembourg has opposed the survey on companies' cross-border tax strategies; It is not acceptable for Luxembourg to have refused to question the unanimity rule in tax matters in the European Union. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has just said that there is no way out of the structural crisis that the European Union is going through only through social and fiscal harmonisation. However, social harmonisation is prohibited by Article 153 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Articles 113, 114 and 115 of the Treaty limit the possibilities of tax harmonisation on the sole condition that it is intended to remove obstacles to competition: in other words, tax harmonisation must not be aimed at combating fraud or at levelling up. Moreover, for any European initiative on direct taxation, the agreement requires unanimity. As for Article 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it imposes the freedom of movement of capital, not only between the countries of the European Union – which could be understood and even discuss and organise – but also with third countries! In other words, the European Union is a machine for making the free movement of capital, therefore global tax fraud! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Article 64 introduces the possibility of exceptional measures to restrict capital movements between Member States and third countries, subject to the exceptional condition – I insist on the word – that everyone agrees, including fraudsters. I see that a colleague is delighted... The consequence of tax dumping, everyone has before them, including governments, perhaps even that of France: as a result of the rescripts, corporate tax rates tend to decline; Since 2004, the decrease has averaged over 15% in the European Union. Governments that decide on such corporate tax reductions do so not by sadism or taste, but by dumping, by tax competition. At the same time, the top income tax, the main determinant of tax competition, has fallen by an average of 19% – they feel compelled to do so, which I do not think is the case. One way or another, states must recover the money lost as a result of these tax cuts, which they do by increasing taxes on consumption! Thus, while progressive taxes have decreased in the European Union, consumer taxes, such as VAT, which are not of this progressive nature, have increased on average by 10%, more in some countries. The structure of the tax levy in the European states is therefore partly defined by cheating, fraud and rescripts imposed by tax havens, which put pressure on honest states and cause them to compete unfairly. Here is the result: more indirect taxation; less progressive tax. We French cannot pretend to be models in the fight against tax fraud, because our country is lax in the fight against fraud. Since 2010 – thus involving more than two presidencies – 3100 posts of tax controllers have been abolished and, since 2008, the number of tax controls has decreased by 36% for businesses and 13% for individuals. The National Financial Prosecutor's Office has 18 judges for 472 cases, or 26 cases per magistrate, whereas only 12 cases are required, according to a parliamentary report on the matter. With regard to the tax police, the Central Anti-Corruption and Financial and Tax Offences Office – whose name alone is enough to mark you with the sign of infamy when its agents come to your house at seven o'clock in the morning – conducted 281 searches for 300 investigations in 2016, less than one search by investigation. I would like to point out that, since the investigations concerning me have given rise to 17 searches, they must be deduced from the total number, because I solemnly affirm that I do not fraud, that I do not hide any treasure in my house and that it was therefore unnecessary to have eight armed persons disembarked there and to mobilise all the agents of this service to control my activities in the case of European parliamentary assistants. [[Smile]] Is the answer to tax evasion found in the convention we are debating? In part, rapporteur Petit, but not to the point that this justifies the blissful admiration, without criticism or nuances, that you bring to this text. I won't talk to you like that if you haven't been looking for me. A few moments ago, you said that those who oppose this convention want France's misfortune! My remarks give you an answer, I think. In fact, those who refuse this convention want, from this rostrum, to send this signal to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg: do not think we are fools that we are not; If we, French, sign this convention because it suits us, we are also able to tell you what we think of you. Of course it is not the minister who will do it, his office will forbid him, but the rapporteur would have the pleasure – as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not bothered, she, it must be within everyone's reach! This convention has good and bad aspects, which is why what I said had to be said. Universal taxation for individuals must exist, as is already the case for North Americans, who are chasing people around the world for whom there are indications of "Americanity", as they say, in order to force them to pay income tax in their country of origin in addition to the one they pay in their host country. I recall this idea, which has now been carried by the insubmissive and which was once carried by other political formations: it makes sense to pay tax in the country where one resides, of course, but if there is a gap with what one should pay in his homeland, he is paid to his homeland. Moreover, this principle is not extravagant or difficult to organise, since all European parliamentarians are subject to this tax model – I myself have been, as Mrs de Sarnez has been. All this poses no difficulty and stems from the desire to prevent the cheating and widespread fraud that all these people are engaged in. Multinational companies must also be taxed on companies based on their share of world turnover in France, it is possible. We must ban aggressive fraud-promoting practices, fight the crime of inciting fraud and tax evasion, ban advertising for tax evasion, ban French banks from having subsidiaries in tax havens. This last measure is also possible, since France has already used it: Lionel Jospin's government had forbidden us to trade with Nauru, a tax haven that then beat all the records in cheating. Similarly, there is a need to tighten the criminal response, reverse the burden of proof and shorten the statute of limitations for tax evasion offences. Ladies and gentlemen, I have developed almost everything I wanted to say to you. However, after repeating to you that my speech contains no contempt for the charming inhabitants of Luxembourg or any disparaging remarks for their country, I am obliged to remind you that this State is responsible for the situation in Europe by setting the wrong example, and that its former first character, today President of the European Commission, is teaching the whole world, especially to the countries facing the greatest difficulties. I would like to remind you of Mr Juncker's absolutely incredible remarks, who once said that there could be no democracy outside the Treaties. I take this opportunity to remind all colleagues – I was surprised to hear from the President of the Republic – that the TSCG, a treaty on stability, coordination and governance, vulgarly referred to as the "Merkozy Treaty", contained a clause...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u59	A little humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u60	Excuse me? Repeat your words, which I have not heard, and I will gladly answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u61	Come on, ladies and gentlemen! You will then be able to speak, Mr Colas-Roy, as our Rules of Procedure provide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u62	He'd better listen to what I'm saying, instead of squealing and squealing for no reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u63	Please continue, Mr. President Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u64	But this colleague interrupts me, without knowing what I'm talking about, which is more! If he listened to me, in all humility, he would learn something for once.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u65	You and you alone have the floor: go ahead.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. The TSCG, called "Merkozy Treaty" – you see what I'm talking about – which provides for all sorts of obligations for the states – as you know, I imagine – had, in its small lines, that it had to be transposed into European common law before 2018. However, nothing had been done on January 1, 2018. Did you know that? No, I'm telling you. Therefore, the European Commission forwarded a text to the European Parliament Committee in November 2018, Madam President, with a few months behind schedule. I do not know what happened that day, which was in the room and which was not there, but patatras: the transposition did not happen, so that everything is blocked and we find ourselves in a legal vacuum. I do not insist on this point to get rid of it or to rejoice at it – although I have good reasons to do so – but to point out that, since the Treaty is no longer worth anything, we are in a position to discuss another one, which would include radical measures to combat tax fraud. I have a few seconds left to talk to you about Luxembourg. More proposals will soon have to be made. In fact, perhaps you do not know, Luxembourg, in addition to a fiscal power, has become a spatial power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u67	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u68	It's a shame! According to the 1967 international treaty, space, the moon and other celestial bodies cannot be appropriated, even if a small flag, such as the North Americans, is planted there, or a satellite, Jade's Rabbit, like the Chinese, is sent there. They don't belong to anyone, no one will ever be able to own them. Except for the fact that the United States of America decided otherwise, considering that they could be appropriated from now on: it is enough to arrive first and to plant a flag there, as they once practiced for so many territories. In 2016, Luxembourg, which does not have the slightest rocket or space base, which does not send any satellite into space, adopted a new regulation allowing companies based in its territory – particularly mining companies – to exploit space resources, in the minds of these people. It is so implausible that it deserves to be recalled. Especially since as a Frenchman, we have our say because we regularly send rockets and satellites into space. We cannot accept that a country, in the heart of the European Union, is reproducing North American regulations that are contrary to our ideal of human access to these new borders. We will have to intervene because it has become contagious, as you can imagine: the Japanese have set up branches in Luxembourg to take advantage of the mining legislation in connection with the conquest of space. I wanted to conclude with this example to prove to you that there is no limit, I believe, to the greed of the state. Luxembourg has built a model of taking advantage of a comparative tax advantage, around which it builds a general view of the state and its financing. We cannot endorse this, and when we look at a tax treaty, it is an opportunity to say that we do not share this world view.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u69	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u70	I would like to assure the national representation and President Mélenchon of the Government's full commitment to progress in fiscal harmonization within a European and international framework. The Government is clearly in favour of greater fiscal harmonization in Europe, particularly with regard to enterprises. That is why we are actively supporting the Commission's draft directive on the common consolidated corporate tax base, the so-called ACCIS. Moreover, we are far from remaining inactive in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. At the national level, as you know, the Anti-Fraud Act increases sanctions and creates a tax police. At European level, a number of directives have been adopted, in particular DAC 3, specifically on administrative cooperation concerning the famous rescripts referred to by President Mélenchon: no illegal rescripts can now be granted since all data must be communicated. At the international level, we referred to the famous BEPS project, within the framework of the OECD. We would also like to take advantage of the French presidency of the G7, which, as you know, has as its red line the fight against inequalities, to promote the introduction of a minimum tax on large companies; work is under way at the OECD, and we hope to take advantage of this year's French presidency to bring the project to a successful conclusion in 2020, in order to allow, for example, for a State to again tax a cross-border income when it has not been sufficiently taxed in a State of destination, which would ensure a minimum tax income. It's an important project. According to Rule 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the purpose of the motion of rejection is to decide whether to deliberate. If we did not deliberate, we could not make progress. Indeed, the convention complements the previous conventions, it brings new elements which could only be approved by the rapporteurs, the chairman of the committee and the previous speaker. Yes, we need to deliberate and even hope to deliberate again in the coming years, thanks to new European directives and new international legislation, which will allow us to enrich the current arrangements. The work is continuing and I invite you to reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u71	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u72	Mr President Mélenchon, dear colleague, you have spoken of joy, of bliss, but I am not happy, I am not beat, nor am I sad: I do not feel; I'm trying to do politics. I mentioned the legal cheaters in my report. I know many of them. They are not symbolic, big companies are not the only ones involved. People cheat, too. Moreover, the figures you are quoting, in particular the figure of 80 billion or those denounced by the chairman of the committee, show that the problem is more than just big companies. As far as the legal cheaters are concerned, we agree. That we must denounce the phenomenon in the rostrum of the House and debate it, including in committee – where the debate was intense, despite your absence – we also agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u73	Why was I away? Do you remember?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u74	Another member of your group could have come.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u75	You shouldn't make such a statement, they don't honor you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u76	Mr Mélenchon, only the rapporteur has the floor. You do not want to be interrupted; respect the rule in the other direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u77	Maybe I had a good reason. I'm a group chairman, you see. I didn't believe you that way, Mr. Little.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u78	Go ahead, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u79	You are talking about the taxation of profits, we are talking about the tax on the turnover of large companies, which should give better results. I repeat the conclusion of the Secretary of State: I do not understand why a motion to reject...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u80	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] That's because you're not smart enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u81	It's possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u82	Mr. Mélenchon, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u83	You said it about me earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u84	Mr Mélenchon, let the rapporteur respond to the motion to reject it beforehand, which you defended for half an hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u85	And he was complaining about being interrupted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u86	That's not what I said about you – my comments have been recorded, anyway – but if you understand that, please accept my apology. You know very well, and I say here, Mr. President Mélenchon, that I think you are very intelligent. On the other hand, I do not understand why you are inviting us to vote against these first steps. Many of your proposals are interesting, but they do not concern our Parliament. The Secretary of State recalled the solutions, perhaps we need to go even further. You have ideas, but they do not concern our Parliament or this debate, which relates to a very specific point. Let us make politics, not sentiment, and let us vote for this text, which makes progress. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Of course, we must continue to work. Let me remind you that I have asked in committee, as rapporteur, that we set up a monitoring group to monitor the risk that I have denounced in my report. The devil is in the details but the danger of this convention seems to me to lie in the implementation of the call for cooperation between our administrations. Parliament has a monitoring role to play in this area, to monitor regularly whether the administrations, in accordance with this Convention, really agree to cooperate; You will agree with me on this. Let us continue to make policy, vote on this text and continue our fight against tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u87	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u88	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] There is a need to deliberate, to debate this essential issue. I am grateful to the Government for its commitments and activities. As part of the G7 presidency, we will have to move forward on this path. On all sides, we see the need for France to take the initiative on European tax harmonisation, and we should welcome it. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance agrees with me: in the framework of the PLF, we must deal with these essential issues for our citizens. We owe them an answer. More than ever before, we must debate the issue, pursue the objective of European tax harmonisation, today and tomorrow, in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u89	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u90	The MODEM group shares the vision expressed by Marielle de Sarnez and the indignation of Mr Mélenchon. Moreover, in my personal capacity, I stress one particular point that he raised: the protection of whistleblowers. In order to be rapporteur for a text on this subject at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I believe that it is a genuine democratic marker on which Europe in general and our country in particular must make progress. It is precisely because the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is a priority that it needs concrete results, not just words or intentions. Voting in favour of the motion to reject would be to reject a step because it is not the ultimate goal, a step forward because it is not the end result. The MODEM Group obviously supports the Treaty and will oppose the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u91	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u92	In stressing the absence of our colleague Mélenchon at a committee meeting, the rapporteur was very unpleasant. All the more so since this debate is being held only because I have put forward Rule 104(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, otherwise we would have had only one small vote in catini, as you wanted. Mr rapporteur, I would ask you to show a little more modesty because if you want us to account for the meetings where we both participate, we will have strange surprises... If this debate is taking place this morning, it is because I asked for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u93	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u94	So do we.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u95	That's right. Without our intervention, this debate went on, the vote was held in catini, without any mention of one or the other. With regard to the motion of rejection, in life, one can decide to see the glass half empty or half full. Our colleague Mélenchon sees it half empty, making admissible arguments. For our part, we tend to see it half full because the Convention in force dates from 1958 and has not been amended since then...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u96	Yes, four times!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u97	Absolutely: four times.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u98	Very on the margin. It is the age of our Constitution and has undergone fewer changes than the Constitution; There was therefore a need for a certain grooming. Is he going far enough? The answer is no. Are there any progress? The answer is yes. So it's always about where you want to place the cursor, whether the glass is half full or half empty. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will abstain on the motion of rejection, Mr Mélenchon, even though it shares many of the arguments that you have put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u99	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u100	I am pleased that we have this debate, which allows us to bring Parliament into line with the people. For weeks, what has he been saying on our streets, on our roundabouts? That there must be fiscal justice, that everyone must pay his taxes according to his means, that the distribution of wealth must be changed. You have to hear it. This also emerges in the meetings of the great debate, when they are not too corset. And here we are offered a text that does not pretend to be perfect but is presented as a first step, a small step. That's not what the people are yelling at. The people shouted, "That's enough! » Why should this text be rejected? It is not to go back to 1958, but to propose at once another one, either at the level of the European Union or bilaterally with Luxembourg, in line with the expectations of the French people. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In phase, we're not there. What always displeases me is one thing that we don't do anything about: when I walk around the streets of Le Havre, I see on fronts of banks or officials posters that say: "Come see us to do tax optimization. It's a call to cheat, it's a call to crime against French society! And it's still allowed! If it is possible to make tax optimisation in France, this means that there are somewhere, in Luxembourg and elsewhere, possibilities to cheat. That is what we are denouncing, that is what the motion for prior rejection denounces, that is what we are going to denounce in this debate: these practices must cease, and they must end now, as a matter of urgency! That is why the GDR Group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u101	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u102	This text raises, at least, many questions about its effectiveness in combating tax evasion and fraud. It does not meet the need for tax harmonisation. That is why it is essential to debate it in this House. This is our role; It is our responsibility and credibility to our fellow citizens. To make good laws, to sign good conventions, we need to discuss, argue and counter-argu.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u103	We should have done it before!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u104	That is why the Liberties and Territories Group welcomes the initiative of the Socialist Group,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u105	And the GDR group!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u106	... who asked that this text escape the simplified examination procedure, so that our House can have a real in-depth debate on the issues of importance that this convention raises. So, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that the Libertés et territoires Group cannot support a rejection motion which would deprive us of this indispensable debate. There is no question for us of remaining in the current situation, that is, a relationship based on truncated tax rules, an aggressive Luxembourg fiscal policy, which harms our citizens and our country. We must work towards the establishment of new, fairer, fairer, more relevant, more effective tax rules, and not address an end to non-receiving to the Government, without further explanation. As our group wants to be constructive, we expect much from the discussion that must take place on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u107	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u108	I would like to return to the text before us. What's this about? To authorise the approval of a convention between France and Luxembourg whose aims are to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax erosion and fraud with regard to taxes on income and capital. This corrected convention modernises the one signed on 1 April 1958, which has become obsolete. In accordance with article 53 of the Constitution, this text must be approved by Parliament, which is quite normal. But what is it really about? A bilateral tax convention which is in line with the OECD agreements and of which, as Mrs de Sarnez pointed out, eighty-seven countries are signatories. The result will be an effective strengthening of the legal provisions to combat tax evasion: the aim is to impose value where it was created, which will give France the opportunity to collect additional tax revenues. This text is part of the development of the tools of international tax regulation. It does not solve everything, but I too consider it necessary to see the glass half full: this agreement still concerns 2300 Luxembourg companies located in France and more than 900 subsidiaries of French companies located in Luxembourg. It was time to have a document that finally brought some legal certainty. This technical agreement is nevertheless the result of consultations conducted as close as possible to the territories concerned. It will help to fight unfair competition for our SMEs based in Lorraine and to apply fairer taxation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The La République en marche group will therefore not vote on the motion for rejection, which the author is making a political act, I think. This is the wrong target: by refusing to approve the Treaty, you refuse to improve the lives of our citizens and the attractiveness of our businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u109	Mr Mélenchon, do you seem to want to give an explanation of vote by the La France group on your own motion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u110	[[Smile]] Yes, because I don't see who else could do it at this moment...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u111	[[Laughs]] Don't surprise us, though... You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u112	[[Smile]] I am not changing my mind, Mr President, but I wanted to thank the Socialist Group and the Communist Group for withdrawing this text. The day he went to committee, I was in fact absent. I know that the rapporteur has cared about my health on this occasion, but perhaps in the meantime he has understood the particularities of the role of a group chairman. Otherwise, I will teach him, in all humility, at the first opportunity. I am prepared, moreover, to compare my statistics with him, and I accept from him all the lessons he will give me, according to his haughty and contemptuous habit. You have listened to my speech: I am sure I have not said anything that those who share your sensitivity can take for attacks. I abstained in my speech from criticizing, in any way, the Government's action on this convention, because I did not want to make anyone uncomfortable with what is common to us. I know that we are all strong supporters of the fight against tax evasion and circumvention. You who now rule, you'd be happy to have 80 billion more in the cash register and a surplus budget. I don't see how you might not think so. So we can end up, and I've been careful to introduce it like this. What seems important to me, with regard to the states that are watching us, is first of all that they know that there is a government in France capable of signing conventions like this one, which I said earlier that I admitted that it contained interesting things. Our colleagues Valérie Rabault and then Nicole Trisse spoke of the glass half empty or half full; I give them notice without any difficulty. But it is also necessary for some politicians in Europe to understand that we are not fools, that the French are not balons that are being trimbalized. It is not because we are going to sign a convention – I will not convince you to reject this text – that, however, the French will put their affairs away and return home, happy and satisfied. No, that's not true! The rulers of all countries must know that they will always fall on a bone with the French: whether it belongs to the majority or to the opposition, there will always be one to recall what is the national interest and, in this case, the general moral interest of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u113	Thank you, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u114	If we continue like this, it will go wrong for the European idea itself. That's not what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u115	In the general debate, Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u116	I would like to start with a reminder of a commitment and a fight. We are all convinced, as you said, Mr Mélenchon, that in democracy tax evasion and evasion are attacking our founding principles, that they are contrary to consent to tax and that they threaten and undermine the bond of trust between citizens, the administration and the state. The MODEM group trusts the Government to strengthen the means available for this struggle, to act and to work on a daily basis to achieve this goal. The law on the fight against tax fraud, the acceleration of work at European level, in particular concerning GAFAs – the digital giants – are, at the beginning of the mandate, all construction sites that demonstrate the importance of the subject and the Government's fierce willingness to move forward, step by step. We must go through dialogue and cooperation. A tax convention with Luxembourg is a step in this fight that we are leading together. Yes, Luxembourg has been on the OECD grey list for two years, identifying countries that do not sufficiently comply with international standards in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. Yes, Luxembourg has been pointed out by the European Commission on many occasions for its aggressive corporate tax planning. Yes, cooperation between tax administrations has been insufficient. Well, that is precisely why we must conclude and defend such a convention, in order to take up the problem with arms, through dialogue, cooperation and concrete progress. Through this Treaty, France obtained from Luxembourg advances which it had not conceded in multilateral discussions and which remain absent from other tax treaties, notably with Switzerland, Belgium or the Netherlands. Significant progress, therefore, and taking into account a reality. MODEM is convinced that progress should be made. By this Convention, for example, Luxembourg accepts the refusal to grant conventional advantages in the event of an abusive situation. It also accepts the redefinition of permanent establishment, in accordance with the new international rules. This Convention, through these various provisions, opens the way, in a significant way, to greater transparency and greater efficiency in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. This Convention is therefore a step towards a more balanced development, in particular of the cross-border region, and the rapporteur has echoed this. Without dialogue, it would be impossible for us to build sustainable cross-border cooperation, serving a better distribution of wealth and activity, in particular in border areas. You know my attachment to cross-border issues. I will conclude with words of pragmatism and vigilance. First, if this convention does not regulate everything, it is a decisive step. Mrs Rabault said so, and this is also our opinion: we must see the progress made, without losing sight of the road that remains to be taken. A step is now being taken, a decisive step, since this convention brings our two countries into line with international standards, opens up our respective tax administrations to important advances in intelligence sharing and the fight against tax evasion and fraud, and sets out a new cross-border ambition. This subject is not purely technical. In my personal capacity, I am committed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs being able to deal with these subjects, which relate to relations between States, even if this is, of course, a fundamental technical subject, on which all the technical expertise and challenges are important. Now, we parliamentarians – the rapporteur stressed it, and the MODEM Group is very committed to it – to ensure the full implementation of this Convention and to support ambitious work, at European and international level, for greater fiscal convergence. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] MODEM believes in the path of dialogue and cooperation in Europe, for a more effective fight against tax evasion and fraud. This is a necessary condition for the bond of trust, which I was talking about, between our citizens and their democracy. We will therefore vote with determination on this ratification bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u117	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u118	As I pointed out earlier, at the Conference of Presidents on 5 February, the Socialist and Allied Group and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left put forward Rule 104(3) of the Rules of Procedure in opposition to the simplified procedure for examining the draft law authorizing the approval of the tax convention between France and Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u119	That's the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u120	That is why each group is now called upon to speak on this text, rather than to proceed immediately to the vote, as was the case with the previous three bills. We have opposed the application of the simplified examination procedure for two reasons: in order to be able to highlight both the progress made and the persistent weaknesses of this new Convention, and the need for real tax harmonisation. Before I turn to the substance of the text, I would like to briefly comment on the conditions for examining tax treaties in the National Assembly, which do not seem to me to be optimal – I have a deep disagreement with Mr Waserman on this point. In the Senate, it is the Finance Committee that is seized on the merits for the consideration of such agreements; In the House, it is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I obviously have nothing against the latter, but it is a tax treaty. But who says "taxes" says "taxes".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u121	But it's an international convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u122	As the subject of the convention is taxation, I believe it is essential – this is a small point of procedure – that the Committee on Finance should be seized of the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u123	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u124	Signed almost a year ago, on 20 March 2018, by France and Luxembourg, this convention aims to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion and fraud. Three out of four amendments have been taken in the last thirteen years, which shows the obsolescence of the 1958 Convention. This obsolescence concerns three areas: the definition of tax residence, which was insufficiently precise; the absence of specific rules to deny the granting of conventional benefits in the event of an abusive situation; the absence of a shared royalty charge with a minimum withholding rate at source. The new convention thus makes it possible to obtain certain advances: in Article 28, the introduction of a general anti-abuse clause against montages having a mainly tax objective; in Article 4, the best definition of tax residence, in accordance with French treaty practice; in Article 10, the definition of dividends, finally in line with the OECD model convention; Finally, in Article 12, the new regime applicable to royalties, which does not provide for exclusive taxation in the Contracting State of which the beneficiary is a resident. However, several gaps remain, which were recalled by President Mélenchon. I do not go back to Article 2, which refers to the ISF; As you have removed this tax, I do not see how the article can apply as it stands. Article 15, on the tantèmes, seems to be in contradiction with the Government's current objective of ensuring that the leaders of a French company pay their taxes in France. This article states the opposite, since it provides: "Tanths, tokens of presence and other similar fees which a resident of a Contracting State receives in his capacity as a member of the board of directors or supervision of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State. These leaders can therefore be taxed in Luxembourg, which is contrary to the presidential speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u125	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u126	Yes, sir. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Article 5 deals with permanent establishments. If it is drafted according to the standards of the BEPS Convention, adopted under the auspices of the OECD, which is to be welcomed, the drafting does not solve the issue of the inoperability of the concept of permanent establishment for digital companies, which can relocate their profits wherever they want. Very important issue: the convention does not address the issue of tax rescripts. However, it was the publication of hundreds of tax rescripts by CIJ – the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists – granted by the Luxembourg tax administration to large companies between 2002 and 2010, which launched the so-called "LuxLeaks" scandal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u127	All right, Mrs. Rabault!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u128	While this scandal has led Luxembourg to be more transparent, some of its practices remain and the convention, unfortunately, does not say a word about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u129	There you go, Mr. Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u130	Finally – I stressed this point in the Committee on Finance – there are no figures in the impact assessment of the Convention. It is fascinating, Minister: that an impact study of a tax text does not contain any figures, it is not a first – it has already happened – but it is no less scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u132	I quote you, Secretary of State: you argue that Article 12, on royalties, will have "a favourable impact on public finances". We wonder which one, since it is not encrypted and the rule of calculation is not even specified. This blurry seems to me to be very detrimental to the establishment of true tax transparency. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] While we recognize that progress has been made in this text, we regret the many shortcomings. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u133	All right, Mrs. Rabault! You just hit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u134	[[At 11.05 a.m., Mr. Sylvain Waserman replaced Mr. Hugues Renson in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u135	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u136	This draft law tends to approve a new tax convention between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, aimed at replacing the old convention, signed on 1 April 1958 and which has become obsolete despite numerous amendments. If ratifications of tax treaties between France and the partner countries are a legal obligation, I would like to remind you that they must also meet a political requirement, since only this procedure can guarantee a thorough examination of their provisions. They are all the more important since the purpose of these conventions is to organise the way in which economic actors with interests in both countries are taxed. The ratification of the Convention between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which we are dealing with this morning, does not derogate from the rule. It is in a context of a change in the international tax landscape where both taxpayers and governments are questioning the tax burden on businesses and individuals engaged in cross-border activities. However, it is not just that. Indeed, the recent period has been marked by an upsurge in cases relating to harmful tax practices, even within the European Union, particularly in Luxembourg. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you a regret, which has already been expressed: that of not having been able to have a sufficiently well-documented and quantified impact assessment. This absence is damaging, given the importance of this text, in that it affects the taxation of companies in our country and the balance of its tax revenues. While Parliament's formal power with regard to international treaties is limited, since it can only approve or reject agreements negotiated by the Government and already signed by the parties, the thorough examination of tax treaties by Parliament remains an indispensable step. Indeed, the State cannot bind itself to international conventions with rights and obligations for our fellow citizens, without national representation endorsing their principles and provisions. As it stands, we can only regret the absence of evaluation tools that would have allowed us to understand, at best, these complex issues and to verify that all financial flows are well taken into account. In the future, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will need to be vigilant and to assess ourselves the impact of such conventions by asking the tax administration to provide us with information on its effects in a timely manner. This text is, of course, part of the development of the tools for regulating international taxation. It responds to the need to modernise all the provisions aimed at avoiding double taxation such as double exemptions, promoting legal certainty in cross-border economic activities and organising exchanges of information in order to combat tax evasion; We can only rejoice. I would like to recall that Luxembourg is an important partner as a financial centre of the European Union. In 2019, with €3,500 billion in assets, it is the first European centre for investment funds, and the second largest in the world. It is also in Luxembourg that 143 bank seats are established, which is considerable. It is therefore necessary to establish a new convention between France and Luxembourg. This new text has the merit of being clearer than the previous one on several points. First, this bilateral tax convention is part of the multilateral framework for preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, known as the BEPS project. Article 5 of the Convention reflects the OECD definition of permanent establishment preferred in the BEPS project. This new definition should allow the administration to exclude artificial arrangements, such as those which may prevail in so-called "commissionaires" agreements, which mechanically result in a loss of revenue for States. Article 10, for its part, defines the manner in which dividends paid by a corporation resident in a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State are to be taxed, including, in particular, income that falls under the distribution regime of the State in which the distributing corporation resides. Article 28 contains a general anti-abuse clause, which is based on Article 7 of the BEPS Convention, so that the benefit of an agreement may not be granted where the main purpose of the assembly or transaction concerned was to benefit from those advantages. Secondly, Article 12 introduces a step forward which we must welcome. Whereas previously the taxation of royalties provided for exclusive taxation by the State of which the beneficiary was a resident, taxation will now be shared with the Contracting State in which the royalties arise. This measure now offers France the possibility to collect additional tax revenues. Thirdly, the new Convention takes account of the situation of frontier workers residing in France and working in Luxembourg, by introducing a rule allowing them, for reasons of administrative simplification, to remain subject to tax in the State in which they operate when they telework less than 30 days a year from their State of residence. However, we must not forget that Luxembourg still does not provide France with the information necessary for the application of its legislation, in particular the identity of the beneficial owners and the substance – profit and loss accounts, employees – of companies registered in Panama. Nor is the system of tax recriminations practised by that State, particularly highlighted by the LuxLeak scandal, dealt with in the new convention. Finally, we may wish Luxembourg to be more cooperative in the ongoing negotiations, both at OECD and Community level, whether it be the concept of permanent establishment for digital companies, the common consolidated corporate tax base or country-by-country reporting. As we are about to take a decision on the passage of the bill authorizing the approval of this convention, it was important for me, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight these various points. This project is a step in the right direction and involves significant progress. However, the text will not be enough to put an end to the tax competition that undermines solidarity in Europe, as the tax systems applicable to businesses and individuals are still too diverse, leading to a tax race that weakens state revenues and undermines their ability to act in favour of citizens. It is therefore up to us to work very quickly on the issue of tax harmonisation at European level. While the French are increasingly sensitive to tax issues, this convention is obviously welcome, even if it is not an end in itself, as much work on the subject remains immense to effectively prevent tax evasion and evasion in relation to income tax. However, because of the significant progress in the fight against tax fraud contained in this text, the UDI Group, Action and Independents will obviously vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u137	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u138	We discussed this tax convention between France and Luxembourg in the Finance Committee. In response to the questions put, our draftsman, Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, explained that Luxembourg was engaged in an "aggressive tax policy" but could not be described as a tax haven. The first question we have to ask ourselves today is, what is Luxembourg? Depending on how we treat this country from a fiscal point of view, the bilateral convention is changing in nature. Oxfam considers Luxembourg to be one of the most aggressive tax havens in Europe with the Netherlands, Ireland, Malta and Cyprus. In the world, for one euro of paid wages, companies make an average of 50 cents of profit – this rate has been observed with some regularity in the United States, Germany and France since the data existed. However, in Luxembourg, for every euro of wages paid, companies claim to earn 3,50 euros! Would Luxembourg workers be seven times more productive than French workers? This is not what the statistics show. If companies claim to be so profitable in Luxembourg, is it not rather because they fake their accounts to declare their profits in this country to taxation more than beneficial? The Global Forum on Transparency and the Exchange of Information concluded until 2015 that these practices did not comply with international standards. In 2017, the European Commission's work on aggressive tax planning showed that Luxembourg still uses highly questionable tax methods. Quite legally, a company is entitled to ask in advance how its situation will be treated by a country's tax administration in order to obtain certain legal guarantees – this principle is called "tax ruling". Many multinationals are thus turning to Luxembourg, whose tax rules are flexible. Thanks to the creation of a subsidiary, a holding company or the relocation of their head office in the territory of the Grand Duchy, multinationals can transfer profits made in other countries in order to be taxed less. The result is obvious: multinationals have channelled hundreds of billions of dollars to Luxembourg and saved billions of dollars in taxes. For example, some companies have been taxed on profits below 1%, while the normal rate is 29%. It is true that the European Commission has conducted some investigations into the unfair tax competition resulting from these practices, particularly after the LuxLeaks scandal. Most of the time, however, there was no sanction. Indeed, if multinationals were to be ordered to repay the amounts diverted to Luxembourg, this might be like disguised state aid, but Luxembourg would not be obliged to change its fiscal policy. Earlier, in response to Jean-Luc Mélenchon, one of the rapporteurs cited the DAC 3 directive, explaining that it prohibited illegal tax recriminations. However, the legal rescripts continue to prevail in Luxembourg. The European Union tends to consider that the only ones responsible for these rescripts are multinationals – they are certainly responsible, since they seek to circumvent the tax – and that the states are not responsible for it. In fact, in these cases, responsibility is shared: alongside multinationals, the states that I call "tax havens" favour tax dumping. For once, I agree with Mr Moscovici, who on 7 March 2018 defined these countries as "black holes in the European tax framework". Are these black holes tax havens? At this stage, the exact definition does not matter to me, but for all companies tempted by tax evasion, fraud, optimisation or circumvention, it is very beautiful in Luxembourg! So, what should we think of this bilateral agreement? The signing of this tax treaty with a country whose tax practices are very aggressive – everyone will be able to recognise it – could have been an opportunity for France to engage a real arm of arms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u140	Instead of an arm of iron, we are witnessing a simple handshake, which is not such as to push back Luxembourg. I'll be asked how to do it. I would remind you that France is an indispensable economic partner for Luxembourg. In 2017, the volume of trade between the two countries was €3.8 billion. France is the second largest customer and third largest supplier in Luxembourg. These economic data could leave some room for manoeuvre for a government wishing to establish this balance of power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u141	Unsubmissive government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u142	For example. This balance of power would aim to prevent any bilateral agreement with Luxembourg if Luxembourg did not change its tax rules. The rapporteur of the bill in the Senate, Vincent Delahaye, explains that this convention does not alter in any way the "significant differences in the taxation of companies between France and Luxembourg which lead, in particular, to the residence of certain French companies or investment vehicles in Luxembourg, thereby reducing the French tax base, even though in the absence of this differential they would remain domiciled in France". Even an august rapporteur of the Senate, who is not a member of La France insoumée, therefore has at least a critical opinion on this agreement. The same report states that "the bilateral convention is intended to be supplemented by the slow progress of European law in this field". Indeed, developments in European law concerning the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion are so slow that it is not possible for us to merely accompany them by ratifying this bilateral agreement. As you have understood, we believe that this text is a blow of a sword in the water, a missed opportunity. Let us suggest some measures that could have been included in this convention. First of all, I am thinking of the introduction of the universal tax between the two countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u143	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u144	At the initiative of the Group of the European People's Party, the Committee on Finance has set up an information mission, chaired by Dominique David, of whom Jean-Paul Mattei and I are the co-rapporteurs, on universal taxation. It would be a matter of doing the same thing as the United States of America by asking an expatriate to pay to his country of origin the difference between the tax that he would have paid there and the tax that he pays abroad. In this way, we could ensure that departure abroad is not motivated by tax evasion. I hope that the fact-finding mission will conclude that this principle is adaptable and beneficial to our country, and that we can all vote together for such a measure. In the meantime, we could at least provide for this simple rule in bilateral agreements, since we are dealing with a tax-aggressive country, which the rapporteurs agree with with regard to Luxembourg: a French taxpayer leaving Luxembourg should pay to his native country the difference between the tax that he should have paid there and the tax that he actually pays in Luxembourg. Other measures could be implemented. A few days ago, the draftsman quoted the economist Gabriel Zucman very well, welcoming a good analysis of the transfers of profits. This convention does not take account of Mr Zucman's proposals at all. For example, we could simply ban transfers of profits. Indeed, some multinationals, such as McDonald's, artificially transfer their profits made in France to Luxembourg through the payment of unjustified royalties. We have already tabled amendments aimed at putting in place a fairly simple system, which would make it possible to calculate the profits actually made on French territory, using in particular the ratio of the French turnover of this company to its world turnover. Finally, a better definition of the concept of permanent establishment, which would make it possible to tax digital companies making profits through French users, could also be incorporated into this convention. As you have understood, we find that this agreement does not go far enough. The European treaties amplify the problem of tax havens, which can also be described as aggressive tax countries, since they do not allow tax harmonisation. Therefore, they allow this scourge to develop even faster – I would even say they facilitate it – by allowing the tax dumping we know to flourish. Bilateral conventions should be even more severe against these countries. A few months before the European elections, this is an important debate, which also concerns the issue of the European Free Trade Treaties. As long as these treaties do not allow for tax harmonisation – of course, I am not talking about tax harmonisation from the bottom like the one we are witnessing from dumping and unfair competition – countries like Luxembourg will be able to continue to do so. I repeat, bilateral conventions must be much stricter. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Considering that this agreement is a blow to the water, although it has some progress here and there, we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u145	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u146	It is important to take advantage of the examination of this Convention to discuss together tax evasion and remedies against this scourge, which is one of the worst evils of our time for the development of our societies. Tax evasion deprives us of the necessary tax resources and increases the feeling of injustice in our states. The race at least so-called tax is no longer at the stage of the small leak of avarish amateurs. It has become a real industry, very lucrative for companies that organize this capital flight to the black holes of global finance and, of course, for all those who pay for their services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u147	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u148	It's a bad time. EURODAD – European network on debt and development – published a report in 2017 indicating that, at a rate of decreasing corporate taxation, their tax rate could be 0% by 2052. So how can we view the huge political projects such as the future of the planet, the energy transition, the maintenance of the highest level of service in health and education, or the struggle for peace, without this financial contribution? Some of the world's largest companies have become more powerful mastodons than many states. Let us not be mistaken, it is not an anomaly of the capitalist system, but one of its consequences. Companies seeking competitiveness in the economic, fiscal and wage fields, everything has to be done downwards to maximize profits. The fight for the least-so-called tax is part of the global competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u149	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u150	The less companies will contribute to the national effort, the less States will be able to oppose these practices. It is therefore "all benef" for them, if you pass me this expression! While yellow vests and a very large number of social movements, for years, have claimed a better distribution of wealth, world inequalities have never been greater and French public services are all on the brink of collapse, it is no longer possible to let corporate taxation go. For this, global tax cooperation is gradually moving forward. This matter is the responsibility of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, whose gaze and global analysis on the world movement allow for substantive expertise. That does not prevent the Finance Committee from being involved in the examination of this text. I therefore do not agree with Mr Valérie Rabault. Of course, the progress of global tax cooperation is far too slow – everyone will agree – but that is the burden of multilateralism. Thus, in order to overcome the inherent weaknesses of multilateralism, some countries such as Luxembourg and France have decided to conclude bilateral tax treaties. That's exactly where the pack hurts. Luxembourg has been a friend of France for a very long time. These two founding members of what has become the European Union are border countries, which share many commonalities, including language. There is intense trust between the two States. Yet this agreement is hardly more ambitious than the minimum set by the OECD multilateral convention for the implementation of tax treaty measures to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits – more commonly referred to as "BEPS", for "erosion and profit shocking". We therefore ask ourselves this question: why not embark on a more ambitious process? Why is this agreement between such close allies not exemplary? It is really a pity that our two states have remained on the reserve, as if we were in the best interests of letting our taxes run into the black holes of global taxation! Of course, everyone knows that Luxembourg is the ally of France, but when it comes to the grisbi, you must not touch! This state has almost merged with its tax evasion industry, a milieu that Jean-Claude Junker, former Luxembourg Prime Minister and now President of the European Commission, loved as long as he had to resign from his post in 2013 because of a huge case in which it was proved that the leak of confidential information for commercial purposes was organised at state level. Luxembourg therefore holds the rope in the international competition for tax opacity. We must admit that France has certainly failed to make Luxembourg more transparent in this Convention, which is a great pity. Without scope, this convention is therefore strongly inspired by OECD standards resulting from the multilateral convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, signed in France in 2017 by sixty-seven States including Luxembourg. But while the multilateral convention on BEPS entered into force in France on 1 January last, the ratification process has apparently not yet started in Luxembourg, which is truly regrettable. At the end of the day, the bilateral convention we are looking at provides for a general anti-abuse clause against mounts having a primarily tax purpose. It also incorporates a renewed definition of permanent establishment of enterprises and a new definition of dividends, taking into account the work of the multilateral convention. It also lays down the principle of taxation of dividends in the State of residence of their beneficiary. That's good – it's a start. However, a first step is not a redemption, far from it. By this convention, for example, it would have been interesting to prevent the practice of alphanumeric accounts. This way of maintaining opacity is simple, effective and well known to all. Fighting against it seemed easy, but it seems to be beyond the reach of the negotiators of this convention. The practice of alphanumeric accounts allows a bank to no longer identify an account holder by name and surname, but with a series of numbers and letters. As the account holder no longer has a real identity, it is no longer necessary to send his data to the country from which he originates. This trick, which is very practical in tax havens, should be denounced and removed to bring us closer to the end of opacity. As I said in committee, Luxembourg is probably one of the worst tax havens on the planet. In fact, this state has become embroiled in international obligations while continuing its business differently. Three brutal tax practices make this country an indispensable platform for tax dumping in Europe: a corporate tax rate far below the European average, taxed dividends under particularly attractive conditions for natural or legal persons who collect them and the possibility for large groups to negotiate preferential arrangements derogating from the common law. Luxembourg thus perpetuates, without any problem, a practice of attracting the profits of predominantly European companies and, in practice, stealing its own neighbours and partners. It is a very strange vision of European alliance and friendship! In addition, opacity allows for the arrival of scarce financial resources from organized crime or various illegal trafficking. Luxembourg can be considered one of the world's largest launderers of dirty money.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u152	The European Commission has also referred the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failure to transpose the anti-money laundering directive. The country brews an extravagant volume of silver, issuing in cash the equivalent of twice its gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u153	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u154	This Convention is therefore insufficient. She insists on the work to be done against double taxation, but it is not against double taxation that we must fight: it is against zero taxation! Rather than fighting in this way, Communist MEPs propose a number of things that, beyond the OECD, will make it possible to fight effectively for a world without tax evasion. This would include, for example, taking the initiative of a conference of all UN Member States – the United Nations –, a COP – Conference of the Parties – global fiscal and financial. The OECD is the international institution of the richest states, whose agreements are then binding on the rest of the world. As a result, rather than relying on the OECD, we believe that the UN is the right institution to work on international taxation – hence the work of our committee – and could even create an international agency to monitor these issues and combat the black holes in taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u155	Good luck!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u156	In parallel with this initiative, the European Union would be in the best interest of acting at its level to unify itself in this area. It is not possible to welcome among us the states that are among the most permissive in the world in tax matters while complying with ultra-strict deficit rules. Finally, France should be more ambitious in its bilateral conventions and not be content with the OECD consensus, which could be described as a soft consensus, to become a real player in the fight against tax evasion in the world. The Communist MEPs have also proposed, in order to avoid tax evasion, a levy at the source of the profits of companies in order to recover effectively and in practice the tax that they owe to us. Finally, we call for a revision of the French and European lists of tax havens. Too often micro-states are pointed at, while the situation in Ireland, the Netherlands, Switzerland or Luxembourg is carefully shunned. This overview allows us to see the abyss separating good intentions from real actions. Apart from facilitating the lives of the borderers, which we welcome, this text is insufficient and, while the French have been on the streets for weeks to demand more tax justice, ratifying such a treaty, which will not change tax evasion, is a mistake. That is why the GDR Group will vote against this ratification. We should, moreover, begin to reflect more seriously on the role of Parliament in drafting such treaties and on the possibility that it might have to amend them, so that tax treaties are not mere ratification votes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u157	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u158	While, under article 52 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic negotiates and ratifies treaties, under article 53 he needs legislative authorization. That is why we are today called upon to examine the bilateral agreement signed in Paris on 20 March 2018 between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, with a view to avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion and fraud with regard to income and wealth taxes. This bill, which is not a tax harmonization convention – we particularly regret it – but a convention that organizes tax relations between our two countries, deserves our full attention. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the initiative of the Socialist and Related Group, which requested that this text be removed from the simplified examination procedure...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u159	You don't see the communists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u160	... so that this House can hold an in-depth debate on the issues of importance it raises. Revising the provisions of a 1958 tax convention, which was only retouched through amendments on very specific aspects, was a necessity, but it is above all a real opportunity for our two countries to move towards greater transparency and tax fairness. In a global context of combating tax evasion, this convention must not be a missed opportunity. On the contrary, it must be a strong sign of our commitment to the fight against tax fraud. This is about France's credibility vis-à-vis other states and about our credibility vis-à-vis the expectations of our fellow citizens, for whom it is a major concern. This is in particular what the yellow vest crisis has revealed and expressed for several months. While the Freedom and Territory Group cannot be satisfied with the bilateral nature of this Convention, it is also not satisfied with its very content. We have many doubts about the effectiveness of this agreement. Overall, this Convention does not seem to address the issues of tax transparency and the prevention of tax evasion and fraud. Moreover, it does not sufficiently defend the interests of our fellow citizens. Its response to the situation of 120,000 cross-border workers residing in France and employed in Luxembourg is incomplete and not always relevant. However, as we all know, our relations with Luxembourg are a major challenge for all cross-border departments and we cannot respond to them lightly. Unfortunately, lightness seems to have chaired, on some points, the drafting of this tax convention, which my colleague Jean-Michel Clément was able to describe in the Committee on Foreign Affairs as a "Canada Dry" convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u161	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u162	Indeed, it takes on the aspect of a genuine response to the OECD's tax transparency requirements and it sounds like a convention in line with the renewed international tax context, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u163	It's not...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u164	... it is far from meeting the tax challenges that exist between our two countries and does not meet the need for fiscal harmonisation. It is characterised above all by a superficial approach to the problems to which it is essential to provide concrete and effective answers. Our House cannot fall behind the sometimes blurred, sometimes incomplete progress of this Convention, on the pretext that this agreement would be more appropriate than that of 1958. More needs to be done in terms of transparency and tax justice. The British writer John Ruskin was right to say that what we think, what we know and what we believe in ultimately has little consequence, and that the only thing that matters is what we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u165	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u166	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us bear in mind that our will to combat tax evasion and fraud will be looked at in accordance with the rules laid down in this Convention. We cannot continue to pursue a policy of small steps or satisfy ourselves with declarations of intent. If this has proved useful at a certain time, today, in the face of the drifts of globalization, we cannot show complacency. The major groups that are passionate about particularly skilful financial montages benefit from our flaws and our hesitations. In fact, this is what is revealed by the too many cases that regularly make up the chronicle and rightly provoke the indignation of our compatriots. They must encourage us to be firm, but also, and above all, to take action. We cannot do half-way in the face of the particularly intense inventiveness shown by some companies to develop tax optimisation strategies at the borders of tax evasion. It is therefore essential that our relationship with Luxembourg be based on a genuine guarantee of transparency and of the fight against tax evasion. However, the Libertés et Territoires Group would have liked us to move concretely towards fiscal harmonisation that would be beneficial to our relationship with Luxembourg, which is an important political and economic partner of France. I have already referred at length to certain aspects of this convention which are disproving to us, but many others are opposing us. Thus, it does not address the issue of wealth tax or inheritance tax, and there are indeed many room for improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u167	Then why don't you vote with us?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u168	[["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] That is why Members of our group have no intention of being trapped in a convention that aims to raise awareness, but will not solve all the difficulties. Moreover, let us not be naive: how could the Duchy of Luxembourg, a tax haven, want to change? While this Convention strengthens legal certainty for all operators, avoids double taxation and double taxation, and addresses the issue of frontier workers, it does not affect corporate tax rates and methods. Nor does it address the tax differential between our two countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u169	Join us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u170	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] It therefore seems difficult to endorse such a text. The Libertés et territoires group, which you will have understood has many reservations about, is therefore waiting a lot for this discussion to reach a final decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u171	So you secretly agreed with us, colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u172	Not secretly: publicly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u173	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u174	While, according to the idea defended by Pierre Cuny, mayor of Thionville and representative of the intercommunality Portes de France-Thionville, a metropolitan pole bordering the Lorrain North was created on 9 January 2019 so that a unique voice can be expressed in Moselle-Nord, I am very pleased to speak on behalf of the La République en marche group and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, seized on the substance of this bill to ratify the France-Luxembourg tax convention. It is a good thing, as my colleague Sylvain Waserman pointed out, because it is indeed up to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to examine all the projects involving international relations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u175	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u176	I would also like to point out that we have discussed it extensively in committee, because some have obviously not heard it or understood it in this House. As a Member of Parliament from one constituency at three borders – Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg – I would like to point out here that Luxembourg is an essential economic partner for our country and for the territory of North-Mosellan because of its geographical proximity. As a reminder, 2400 Luxembourg companies are located in France, 900 French subsidiaries are located in Luxembourg and more than 100,000 frontier workers are resident in France and are employed in Luxembourg. This Convention, which has to simplify the lives of frontier workers, in this case their taxation, in particular in the case of telework, even if it does not solve all problems, aims to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion and fraud with regard to income and wealth taxes. A result of the work of the Franco-Luxembourg intergovernmental seminar held in Paris on 20 March during the historic State visit of the Grand-Duc in Luxembourg, it was signed together with agreements in areas as varied as transport, safety, health, vocational training or energy, all of which have "a tangible impact on the daily lives of citizens", according to the terms of the joint declaration adopted at the end of the work. The Convention, which the two signatory States must approve, will replace the tax convention signed on 1 April 1958 and amended since then by four successive amendments which have transformed each of the particular aspects of the Convention with the aim of putting an end to certain optimisation schemes. In the current context of combating tax fraud and tax evasion, it was time to modernise the convention in order to adapt it to current OECD-inspired international tax standards. The rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, who has received an opinion, explained the detailed financial arrangements in the thirty-one articles of this text. For my part, as a border Member, I will pay more attention to the progress made by the convention before us for approval. In this way, I will note the tax modernization, which has made the rapporteur Frédéric Petit say that it is a "model convention". It allows France and Luxembourg to be in advance, particularly when compared to the tax treaties signed between France and Belgium, Switzerland and the Netherlands, which, like Luxembourg, have been accused of being uncooperative in tax matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u177	Rightfully!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u178	I will particularly stress this important issue of my work as a parliamentarian, namely the situation of frontier workers. Article 14 thus opens the possibility of taking into account telework which did not previously exist, since no previous agreement with Luxembourg defines a number of authorised working days. This number is now set at twenty-nine days, which has the merit of being clear, even though it is regrettable that the convention does not go beyond that. In this respect, I would point out that German borderers are only entitled to 19 days of telework per year, while Belgian borderers are likely to be allowed to increase this threshold from 24 days to 48 days soon. Telework is a future solution that addresses the mobility problems faced by all border workers, not to mention the carbon footprint or the well-being and performance at work. Several recent studies have shown, if necessary, the strong correlation between teleworking and professional performance. For the sake of completeness, I shall note, after my colleagues, two missing elements of this convention. In fact, it does not address the issue of digital data or the status of digital data, which we will have to go back to. Nor does it address the issue of retrocession related to the social and training costs borne by the border municipalities and, beyond that, by the communities of the Grand Est region. In this area, our Luxembourg neighbours prefer to use the term "co-development", a solution that I could subscribe to. As you will have understood, what interests me is cross-border cooperation at all levels, because it will make it possible, through a common action shared by all actors, to progress towards a balanced development of the border region. Although the multiplicity of administrative actors in the field of cross-border cooperation sometimes undermines our Luxembourg neighbours, we can only hope that the dialogue between the bodies will improve so that cooperation between France and Luxembourg will deepen and match the cross-border challenges between our two countries. For having attended the signing of the new Franco-German Treaty in Aix-la-Chapelle and for having organised a round table on border issues in the National Assembly on 7 February, which brought together the ambassadors of Germany, Belgium, Switzerland and Luxembourg and the interested border MPs – which had never been done before – I am convinced that it is through constructive dialogue, the sharing of good practice and the return of experience that we can improve the lives of our citizens and, why not, achieve a prefiguration of what would be a positive Europe for everyone. The border as a laboratory of experimentation for our country and for Europe? I shall end with this note of optimism which we need very much on the eve of decisive European deadlines for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u179	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u180	We met again one Thursday morning to discuss in public session a convention after a group – from two groups in this case: the Democratic and Republican Left Group and the Socialist and Related Group – requested not to apply the simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u181	Thank you, comrade!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u182	These requests are in law, but I wonder how many conventions have been discussed outside the simplified procedure since the beginning of the legislature. All the more so since our debates in the Committee on Foreign Affairs are open to the press and available on the National Assembly's video portal. We therefore work transparently...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u183	As in all commissions!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u184	... further knowing that we cannot change even a comma of the text. I would add that the chairman of the committee leaves much room for debate and questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u185	Two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u186	Some words have a trigger effect, or even produce a Pavlovian reflex. "Luxembourg" is clearly one of these words, as it is linked to others, much more sulphurous, such as "tax haven", "tax optimization", "luxLeaks" and "tax ruling".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u187	And Juncker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u188	That is obviously why this debate is taking place this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u189	All the truths!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u190	First of all, I would like to point out that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is a friendly, neighbouring and bordering country and a founding member of the European Union – even in Luxembourg, the work establishing the European Coal and Steel Community – ECSC – was carried out and its provisional institutions installed. In 2017 the French community in Luxembourg had more than 35,000 French registered. In addition, more than 100,000 cross-border workers residing in France travel daily to the Grand Duchy to work there, a figure that is not insignificant in a country of 600,000 inhabitants. Due to its geographical proximity and economic dynamism, Luxembourg is a strategic trading partner for France. In 2016, the bilateral trade relationship had a surplus of 573 million euros for our country. France is the second largest customer and third largest supplier in the Grand Duchy. Finally, there are 900 French establishments in the Grand Duchy, mainly in the banking and insurance sectors, while 2,300 Luxembourg companies are located in France. As our colleague Didier Quentin pointed out during the examination in committee, Luxembourg is making progress on the road to transparency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u191	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u192	...even if it surprises some.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u193	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u194	It is for this reason that we are now in a position to examine this text. Signed on 20 March 2018, the Convention between France and Luxembourg is intended to replace the Convention of 1 April 1958 on the avoidance of double taxation and on the establishment of rules for reciprocal administrative assistance in matters of income and wealth taxes. As has been said, this 1958 Convention, as amended in 1970, 2006, 2009 and 2014, is the one currently in force. Recent developments in Luxembourg's position on administrative cooperation and tax transparency have contributed significantly to the implementation of the new Convention. At European level, Luxembourg took the decision in 2014 to relax its position on bank secrecy. As part of the revision of the Savings Directive, it agreed to switch to automatic exchange of information on 1 January 2015, thereby renouncing the withholding tax that allowed taxpayers residing in another EU state to be anonymised. In October 2015, following the so-called "LuxLeaks" scandal, Luxembourg's finance minister and his European counterparts reached a unanimous agreement on the automatic exchange of information on the famous tax rescripts, only seven months after the European Commission's proposal for a directive. At the international level, Luxembourg is now among the countries that have adopted the new OECD Common Standard for Automatic Exchange. The first exchange of information on the data was effective in 2018. In view of these developments, the OECD Global Forum on Transparency and the Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes noted in October 2015 Luxembourg's note on tax transparency from "non-compliant" to "broadly compliant". Luxembourg's rating is therefore now identical to that of the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany or Italy. Because this tax convention avoids double taxation, but also double exemptions, allows the exchange of information in line with the latest OECD standard and offers new ambitions for telework, the Republicans Group will vote for it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u196	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...not without recalling the need to implement, within the European Union, a genuine harmonisation of taxation in general and the tax applicable to company income in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u197	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u198	At the end of 2018, the ruling coalition in Luxembourg announced for 2020 the free of charge of all public transport in the Grand Duchy. This ambitious and costly measure is not really envisaged in France, despite recent discussions on the mobility law. And because of this: the public finances of our two neighbouring countries are not really comparable. Our country's ambitions to improve public services or increase purchasing power would, however, be entirely different if France were to recover all or part of the tax evasion, estimated each year at around EUR 100 billion and partly due to tax havens which, like Luxembourg, favour these practices. The purpose of the convention under consideration is therefore to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion and fraud in relation to taxes on income and on capital. Signed on 20 March, it replaces the Convention of 1 April 1958, already amended four times by amendments. This fully rewritten convention is in line with the model tax convention established by the OECD. It draws the consequences of the work of this organization and of the rise in power of the multilateral tax convention known as "BEPS", which makes a further step towards the fight against the black holes of tax fraud and evasion. Nevertheless, we cannot ignore the fact that, in recent years, many scandals have sparked relations between France and Luxembourg, causing people to increasingly reject situations of tax avoidance and tax evasion on a large scale. Several measures, of course, represent real improvements in this respect. Thus, the general anti-abuse clause against montages having a primarily tax objective, the introduction of a more precise definition of tax residence, in line with French conventional practice, and a new definition of permanent establishment of enterprises represent notable advances. However, whatever its merits, this bilateral convention is not intended to harmonise taxation or to mitigate differences in tax legislation between the two countries, which are the source of sometimes significant disparities and abuses. These are his limits. Luxembourg maintains very advantageous taxation – around 2% for businesses – and we must work at European level to achieve greater tax harmonisation. While European legislation has improved in recent years, significant margins of progress remain, particularly as regards the harmonisation of the common corporate tax base. Tax harmonization between France and Luxembourg still needs to progress: this is why the Socialist and Allied Group will abstain from voting, as announced by our President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u199	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u200	The text before us this morning gives new impetus to cross-border cooperation between France and Luxembourg. As you know, the exchanges between our two countries are dense, old and fraternal, and were marked, in particular, last March, by the State visit that the Grand-Ducal couple made to France. Several speakers recalled that France wished to strengthen with its close partners cooperation between border regions, which offered new opportunities for the territories and their inhabitants. It is the tens of thousands of French who cross the border on a daily basis or who are established in Luxembourg that feed this relationship. Luxembourg is also a land of entrepreneurship that benefits our Greater East region. With more than 2000 Luxembourg companies based in France and 900 subsidiaries of French companies based in Luxembourg, the economic partnership between our two countries is particularly strong. What binds us, however, is, above all, a long European march started together at the end of the Second World War. It is through this European prism that we must think of this tax convention, which will promote the free movement of people – and more specifically of frontier workers – while strengthening our demand for tax cooperation. This morning I was able to hear criticism of him here or there. I have seen at times, during our committee work, a willingness to debate a bill which, let us recall, is not intended to transform Luxembourg's tax policy or to harmonise our tax systems, but which aims to better organize tax relations between our two countries. Thus, income that has so far been exempt from tax in France can now be taxed. One of the main advances of this Convention is the strengthening of tax transparency, since it introduces the measures of the OECD BEPS project, which aim to better combat profit transfer and erosion of the tax base. Far from favouring any form of fiscal optimisation, the bill we are considering introduces into our law the most recent international standards in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. [[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] And then, ladies and gentlemen, this convention is aimed primarily at the many French nationals who are bordering or residing in Luxembourg. It is up to them to think about, that is, the tens of thousands of cross-border passengers who take each of their cars to cross the border and the thousands of users of the Nancy-Metz-Thionville-Luxembourg train line and, more generally, all our citizens in Luxembourg, for whom the insecurity of taxation, and in particular the risks of double taxation, had become unbearable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u201	That's insecurity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u202	By defining tax domicile more clearly, we are providing them with an answer, while also preventing the risk of double exemption: this is a step that must be welcomed. Some in this House wanted to use this bill this morning to point out the lack of fiscal harmonisation at European level. Such a debate is legitimate, because the European Union will not be completely credible until it confronts those who, among its own, allow themselves to play shadow games and contribute by their opacity to the disruption of finance. However, I would like to point out that this Convention clearly defines what constitutes the permanent establishment of a company, and thus allows for a better distribution between our two countries of the profits of the companies concerned. It is therefore a whole scheme of abusive tax optimisation that will be undermined, thus limiting the possibilities for companies to artificially locate their activities, as could be the case so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u203	That's good.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u204	These advances are important, but the majority of us are well aware that we need to go further in the fight against tax fraud: the adoption by our House last October of the draft law on combating tax fraud will allow for the establishment of mechanisms that will combine the progress that this text will make possible. I am thinking in particular of the creation of a tax policy which will benefit from a more in-depth exchange of information between France and Luxembourg. The application of these measures in France, however crucial, cannot, however, suffice: only decisive European action will put an end to both avoidance and aggressive tax optimisation. These practices embody the drifts of globalization that need to be regulated. This European commitment to tax optimisation and fraud must continue and intensify, for if it is an area where the French and Europeans expect more Europe, it is that. Therefore, do not count on the rest of the international community to do so: only determined European action will put an end, at the international level, to questionable practices that undermine the authority of States and the foundations of our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u205	[[Smile]] All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u206	The European Union has made considerable progress in this area in recent years: it will have to continue to do so in the next European Parliament, in the five years ahead. Of course, a tax treaty alone cannot solve all the difficulties we face, and that is not the purpose of this bill. We will have this debate in the coming months. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The convention before us allows for concrete improvements for both our citizens and our businesses. I hope, therefore, that it will be adopted by our House for implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u207	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u208	There was a time when those who were worried about a decline in our tax resources from businesses due to the exacerbated tax competition led by some small European Union states were being mocked. I even remember that in 2012, when one of the largest plans to combat mass tax optimisation was being negotiated, an influential member of the tax administration told me that the BEPS project of the OECD was just a small thing, nothing concrete. However, it must be noted that, from 2002 to 2012, the French authorities underestimated the real state of corporate tax erosion: we have lost too much time in this area. What, then, is not my dismay today, ladies and gentlemen, in our rostrum! Indeed, I can only note that the tax on the profits of companies in France has fallen from 3.29% of our GDP in 2001 to 2.04% in 2016, which means that almost 40% of our taxation has gone away, as confirmed by the OECD website, which is as clear as the actions of its directors. However, this meltdown is not due to a fall in our face-to-face corporate tax rate. In addition, by consulting the European Commission's documents, the harmful action taken by the tax policies of some small Member States of the European Union, seasoned with a certain opacity as to the reality of the real rates they apply to large companies. This is the continental reality, denounced in particular thanks to the LuxLeaks, who have highlighted the famous rulings, or rewritten ones, negotiated by Luxembourg with very large European and American companies. To get out of this tax torpor, Europe is taking action: the rules must now be published. The joint information mission we launched with Pierre Cordier on the progress made in the fight against cross-border assembly will enable us to assess the real state of implementation of the new European directives in this field. Indeed, if each of us has denounced these harmful practices, it also happens that, for the past five years, thirteen European directives have been adopted in this field: we must now see how they are applied in reality. The fight against tax evasion is obviously the object and the issue of the tool that distributes direct taxes between France and Luxembourg, that is to say, this new tax convention of 20 March 2018 which we are discussing with this bill of ratification. You will therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen, that I welcome this text, which finally incorporates many of the principles of the OECD and includes more anti-abuse clauses, as well as a better definition of permanent establishment. The situation is changing, fortunately, and we must credit our country for having renegotiated this convention over the long term and upwards, with a view also to putting an end to many housing tax-related schemes. It also seems to me that the situation in the border area that I represent here will need to be further agreed, given the high pressure on human resources, as well as the great skill needs of the Grand Duchy in the years to come. Much more than they must be ratified, conventions must be evaluated on a daily basis. I am sure that our government will give parliamentarians much more information than it did in its impact assessment, because we are imposing it, in particular, through the cross-cutting policy document entitled Fighting tax evasion and evasion that we adopted under the 2017 Settlement Act. This document has resulted in two missed meetings during the preparation of the last two finance laws and we hope to have much more complete data when we consider the next finance bill. Of course, we have the ambition – which we will remind the Government – to make a substantial assessment of this public policy, since we have foreseen in article 38 of the Anti-Tax Fraud Act adopted in October 2018 that this same cross-cutting policy document should be enriched with elements concerning tax treaties. At the very moment when the European debate is about to begin, this tax convention reflects the desire of the two sovereign nations, France and Luxembourg, to distribute their taxes among themselves in the event of territorial competition. One cannot, however, speak of sovereignty, let alone the rule of unanimity at Community level in the field of direct taxation. The next campaign for the European elections must place a strong emphasis on this issue in order to prevent the veto of certain states, such as Luxembourg or Ireland, and to regulate at European level a fair distribution of corporate taxation. We must put an end to the piracy that we are victims of because of the selfish position of some of our European partners. Finally, in the face of the major economic players who are optimising beyond reason and up to aggression, we must aim for tax equity found and felt up to our roundabouts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] "Let's not waste time because time does not work for us": it was with these words that Stéphane Zweig called, in 1934, to act on our European continent in the face of the rise of populism. It is through these words of general mobilisation, ladies and gentlemen, that I call for the adoption of this text and, above all, to give more meaning, in French and responsible Europeans, to the regulation of our relations with Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u209	I received a motion from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and members of the La France group to adjourn pursuant to Rule 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u210	I no longer see the ambassador of Luxembourg, who was present at our debates. I was only interested in this bill late, because my group's parliamentary niche forced me to join the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education for a time. While I regret that I have not been able to attend its examination in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have, however, followed with great interest the discussions held there and I wanted to speak on behalf of my group on this important subject for our country, for the European Union and for the international community. The text before us today therefore consists of a new amendment to the tax convention which binds us to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Let us say it from the outset: it contains some small progress in the fight against tax evasion. Indeed, the Convention incorporates some OECD recommendations which, although very weak, allow for a more precise definition of tax residence and includes a general anti-abuse clause against arrangements having a primarily tax purpose. We also recognize that the text goes a little further than the conventions that bind us to other countries such as Switzerland, Belgium or the Netherlands. However, some parts of the text call for vigorous, energetic and even determined criticism. For example, this convention may encourage some workers to reside and telework from France for much of the year, while paying their taxes in Luxembourg. In this connection, I would point out that the number of frontier workers exceeds 100,000, which is far from being marginal. Another example is that pensioners will be taxed by the country paying their pensions. These arrangements run counter to the fundamental principle of fiscal equality and are tantamount to dissociating tax from what it represents in terms of contribution to public expenditure. These considerations lead me to a more general observation: the extent of tax evasion is such today, in its manifestations as in the figures it represents and in its political and social implications, that we can no longer content ourselves with a policy of small steps that would satisfy ourselves with a new little stone brought to the building. We need, and this is what is lacking today, a firm, fierce political will based on the mobilization of countries and their peoples against what can be called organized crime that gangens contemporary societies. Indeed, tax evasion is not simply a capital flight, but, in the words of sociologists Monique Pinçon-Charlot and Michel Pinçon, it is a process of dehumanisation and exclusion of peoples. In recent years, cases have been punctuated which have revealed the incredible extent of the phenomenon. LuxLeaks in 2014, SwissLeaks in 2015, Panama papers in 2016, Malta files in 2017 and CumEx files in 2018: these financial and political scandals mark the decade and we are already waiting to know what the name of 2019 will be. However, each time, in a Pavlovian reflex, governments compete with false indignation. In every new case, they promise us that they will take the problem with the body and stop this hemorrhage which never ceases to damage the social pact by depriving the states of their resources. They are then heard to be annoyed "debt! Debt! Debt! – you know the chorus – to saber a little more in spending, without any imagination to increase revenue, while resources are there, in the resolution of the question of tax evasion, since in France, for example, it is 80 to 100 billion euros that escape each year and go in smoke to tax havens. It should be pointed out at the outset that, while these scandals are rightly the headlines of the newspapers, tax fraud is only the emerging part of a financial iceberg that represents huge sums of money. The "aggressive tax optimisations" – you will notice the pleonasm – which surf on the opacity of legislation, are already a scandal in itself. We often talk about the practices of digital multinationals – I will come back – but we could also look at those of companies such as McDonald's, Ikea or Engie. In 2013, the fifty largest European companies had an average of 117 subsidiaries each in tax havens, without any information on their activities. I take advantage of this motion to adjourn to welcome NGOs and whistleblowers, who have courageously imposed this issue on the public debate for decades. ATTAC, Oxfam, CCFD-Terre solidaire and many others work daily to expose these practices and to question us about the injustice they constitute. Let's go back to Luxembourg. He can hardly be said to be a sincere economic partner. Is he an economic partner? Undoubtedly: France's largest foreign investor in 2016, it now hosts nearly 900 French subsidiaries in its territory. But to say that he is sincere is a joke, since this country is home to no less than one company for six inhabitants. Unless therefore to judge that Luxembourg has already achieved, for a long time, the rank envied by some of the "start-up nation",...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u211	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u212	...it cannot be considered to be a serious partner. We can feel, ladies and gentlemen, that Luxembourg favours its economic partnerships over its diplomatic relations: it is the first investment fund centre in Europe, the second largest investment centre in the world after the United States, and has 3500 billion assets under management. For a country smaller than a French department, it must be recognized that it has been able – as they say – to value its territory! However, it has done so by perhaps narrowing the tax rules a little. Indeed, a report commissioned by the European Parliament tells us that, if the theoretical tax rate in Luxembourg is 29%, multinationals only give to the tax authorities – you bet – 2% of their profits on average. It's a joke! Unfortunately, this practice is not new. Documents revealed in 2017 show that Luxembourg was the most active country in the European Union to stifle the first attempts to combat tax optimisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u213	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u214	Luxembourg has thus rebutted three ambitious proposals which advocated harmonisation between tax authorities and opened the way for an investigation into hybrid loans, which are one of the workings of tax evasion schemes. I will not teach you anything by saying that the one who was at the time his Prime Minister is today at the head of the European Commission: this is a Mr Juncker. I find it incredible that we can tolerate the fact that the former Prime Minister of the country is the head of the European Union, who is, par excellence, that of tax evasion and the mechanisms against which we now claim to want to fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u215	A whole symbol!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u216	It is indeed a heavy symbol. So a tax convention should be signed with a partner who discreetly does the opposite of what he says out loud? How can we consider giving more credibility to a country that acts with all its strength to maintain practices that further erode the foundation of our common goods every day? How can we see Luxembourg as a reliable partner in the international and European battle for tax harmonisation? That sounds delusional to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u217	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u218	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u219	However, Luxembourg's double tax system must not prevent us from making at least a bitter observation of the tax policies in our own country. To those who regard Luxembourg as the wolf in the European sheepfold, I would point out that, in the race for tax dumping, France is also trying to score points. In the area of tax evasion, however, the Government has communicated a great deal about its desire to introduce a European tax on digital giants. We will agree that the figures give rise to vertigo: French SMEs are taxed on average at 23%, compared to only 9% for GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon. Take the example of Airbnb: the taxes paid by the company in 2017 amount to only 30 cents per year and per accommodation offered on the site. Now – and we warned you that an agreement would be impossible to negotiate – the Government has faced a refusal of this tax on the part of the other member countries, without it spending much energy to overcome the obstacle. We are waiting to see how this taxation is going to materialize, fearing that it will be reduced as the skin of grief. It would indeed be calculated on the basis of turnover, whereas it should be indexed to profits. We are told that it should bring back 500 million euros to the State. It's a joke! Economist Gabriel Zucman estimates that the circumvention of French tax by multinationals amounts to more than EUR 5 billion, which is ten times the amount that Mr Le Maire intends to recover. To give another element of comparison, the sums invested by these companies in advertising amount to EUR 2 billion. And we would recover 500 million euros? This is ridiculous with regard to the public manna that we should receive. However, the tax fraud of digital giants is too often the tree that hides the forest; Perhaps this tree is a baobab, but it must not occult the rest. However, it cannot be said that the Government has adopted a very restrictive policy. On the contrary, the opposite happened: the Government refused to completely remove Bercy's lock for fraudsters; It has also cut in the means of the tax administration, with a number of removals of posts that give rise to vertigo,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u220	Not with regard to tax control!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u221	... at the very moment when we should invest in the fight against tax evasion. Let us not be mistaken: this requires an investment, qualified personnel, adapted tools. Multinationals have ways to find niches and ways to optimize. It is obvious that colossal means must be confronted if we are to catch them and ensure that they pay what they have to pay. When Mr Darmanin announces that the tax authorities are going to use Facebook and social networks to fight tax fraud, we want to explain to him that multinationals do not exchange clichés of their financial montages on the Web. It's a joke! There is obviously a need for a different approach. We also want to talk to her about Ms.Montoya who, in 2016, was officially in charge of 11,000 companies, while she lives – don't laugh – a popular suburb of Panama City. However, Ms. Montoya is also a former employee of Mossack Fonseca, made famous by Panama Papers. He would still like to talk about the tax arrangements made in Germany and elsewhere to transform taxes into profits through the repayment of dividend taxes. There we reach the peaks of indecency! Not content with depriving the state of resources for redistribution, traders, banks and law firms have taken advantage of niches to earn their own tax evasion. This fraud, unveiled under the name of CumEx Files, cost European taxpayers more than 50 billion euros. Some of the culprits are French, such as BNP Paribas, Société Générale or Crédit Agricole. This tax evasion industry must be opposed to a fierce political will, which gives itself the means to act effectively. By refusing the principle of redistribution and by putting on national solidarity the selfishness of some, tax evasion bears in it the negation of what brings us together. It is an attack in good standing against the public services and fundamental rules of our Republic, starting with the essential one of equality before taxes. In the end, what is the world these investors are dreaming of? It is a global jungle, where money and economic predation reign; it is a world without arbitration, where the great eat the little ones; it is a world completely sclerotic because of inequalities, a world that feeds on them while amplifying them; It is a world driven by profit alone, a world where there are no longer public services, where national solidarity is seen not as a factor of progress, but as an obstacle to the famous freedom to undertake. It is a world, ladies and gentlemen, which we do not want. Unfortunately, we are already living a little, if not a lot, in this world. The future will tell us how things will turn out, but we are already facing an unacceptable situation. In front of her, we cannot be satisfied with small steps or small conventions. Sometimes it is difficult to distinguish between tax evasion and aggressive tax optimization, at a time when states compete with ingenuity to offer tax advantages to businesses. Perhaps governments think they can dry up tax evasion by reducing contributions. After all, they say, when there are no more taxes, companies may not want to leave. At this game, there is a loser: the majority of the population, who are impoverished by the runoff that goes down to the top – it is today the reality of the world economy. It would be blindly to fail to notice the efforts made by France in the race at least so-called fiscal. The Government has increased the tax benefits for large companies. He lightened the exit tax. The rate of corporate tax in France will be gradually reduced from 33% to 22% by 2022. Moreover, I am referring here to the nominal rate, which hides all the mechanisms that allow large companies to further reduce their tax slate: in France there are nearly 500 niches, which represent a loss of almost 100 billion euros each year for the State. Is that a coincidence? It is about the amount of tax evasion that annually digs up the State funds. Meanwhile, we are told that the caisses are empty and that we will have to make efforts, we tell pensioners that they will have to contribute to it through an increase in the CSG – a general social contribution –, we are told that we will have to give up the reimbursement of certain medicines, that we will have to cut the amount of the APLs, the personal aids to housing, and I will pass on. Ultimately, those who have the least to contribute to bail out empty crates are asked because the richest are playing an international game that allows them to squander. That is the reality of our society – and that is why it takes a firm and determined hand to counter this logic. The race to reduce business taxation is therefore a major mistake. It is tantamount to wanting to reduce doping in a marathon by offering cheaters a head start. Take, for example, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, the CICE: BNP Paribas declared, in 2015, 134 million euros of profits to the Cayman Islands, for a turnover of 39 million euros, without declaring an employee and without paying 1 euro of tax. No need to be gifted in mathematics to notice a slight inconsistency in accounting! The same bank was granted more than EUR 39 million under the CICE in 2014. This means that public authorities are potting out for companies that optimize their taxes and make their money run away. In a way, we are contributing to this tax evasion and to the enrichment of those who have the most. In addition, the practice of trying to seduce businesses through an arranger tax is particularly dangerous, because we are sure to lose the race. Today we are debating the case of Luxembourg, but the list of tax havens is long and the list of countries ready to roll out the red carpet to multinationals is even more so. Do we have to follow this mortiferous slope? Where will the limit be? The weakening of the social state is always at the expense of rights. The willingness of some to base a policy on the sole imperative of economic performance is a direct threat to democracy. Capitalism, which had to, if we believe what we were told in the twentieth century, bring democracy and development to the peoples, reveals itself for what it is: a vector of impoverishment of the greatest number and of democratic setbacks. Take, for example, arbitration courts, which now give multinationals the opportunity to challenge the social and environmental laws decided by the states, and thus by the people. Frankly, won't there be any limits? In the face of the strong, ladies and gentlemen, as I say and repeat, we must be strong. We must stand up to multinationals, whose economic weight is sometimes greater than that of States. This is the case for Walmart, for example, which weighs more heavily than the Swiss economy. The company declared twenty-two companies in a European country without holding a single store, while reporting 1.3 billion profits. What was this country? I give it to you in a thousand: Luxembourg. For our part, we do not want a powerless public power in the face of unbridled capitalism. We want the common good, equality and the sharing of wealth to be superior to the logics of profit and the law of the market. Wherever the state disappears in front of large groups and the interests of capital, taking in its wake public services and the bond of trust between citizens and institutions, the social pact erodes a little more. It is now seen with the "yellow vests", which call for a re-establishment of the ISF – a tax of solidarity on fortune – but, in essence, aim at the mechanism that falls on them and always favors the strongest. You will object to me, and have not failed to do so, that the fight must be fought on a European and global scale, that is what realism demands. But realism also means that the small steps are inoperative against tax evasion. We are opposed to the risk of a capital flight. But there is no question of making our Republic, France, a country that resembles Luxembourg or the City of London, those cities from which the poor have been driven out, where the financial centre is strong and competitive but where the population is totally excluded from the accumulated wealth. We can, and I believe we must, open the way. But to do that, you have to have a certain awareness of things. I mean my dismay at the "best plan of vigilance" award given in our assembly on 12 December by a jury in which the Government was represented – I don't know if you remember. I turn to the transformation of an ambitious system into a communication operation, to remind that the winner was none other than Orange, a company that did not pay corporate income tax for ten years. Such acts, I believe, are indicative of what we have in mind: they reflect this cowardice vis-à-vis the powerful. We must defend, at European level, the proposal for a country-by-country reporting, which would oblige each multinational to be more transparent about its profits and the taxes it pays for each of its subsidiaries. At the national level, this reporting was censored by the Constitutional Council in the name of freedom to undertake. It should have reminded him that the information requested is basic information, that competitors already hold it, and that to the freedom to undertake we can oppose equality of rights and freedom all at once; For to make freedom effective, one must make it live, so give everyone the means to live with dignity. We could have learned some interesting things. Country-by-country reporting for French banks, in fact, was first adopted in France with the 2013 banking law, before being subject to identical requirements on the part of the European Union for all its banks. We all became aware of the extent of disconnection between the writing games. French banks make one third of their international profits in tax havens, even though they carry out only a quarter of their international activities, pay only one fifth of their taxes and employ only one sixth of their employees. I believe we must work to guarantee new rights and to bring European harmonisation up, constantly. It also means that we must reject and vigorously denounce the tax and social dumping at work in certain European partners, such as Luxembourg. This plea for a political word that is both demanding and capable of human emancipation therefore leads me to make a critical reading of the convention that we are being asked to approve. Already, and this is a remark on the form – but isn't the shape the bottom raised to the surface? –, I would like to remind you that this convention is not amendable. I regret, and this has already been said in committee, that we cannot make any changes to it that would have been debated at the sitting. We could have imagined, for example, a common tax between the two countries, a simple ban on transfers of profits or an improvement in the definition of the concept of "permanent establishment", which would facilitate the taxation of digital enterprises. We have a lot of ideas on this. You often accuse us of opposing us without proposing, but on tax evasion, I can assure you that we have a very long list of proposals that would make possible an alternative political orientation. Then we could get back, at last, the money that should abound the common pot. Mr Paluszkiewicz, draftsman of the opinion on this text, also explained in committee that Luxembourg was no longer a tax haven. I would like to refer you, sir, to the Oxfam report, which, using the European Union criteria, does indeed place this country on the list of tax havens. Gommer part of this list is easy: it allows you to tell everything and anything. I also refer you to the secret tax arrangement between Amazon and the Luxembourg tax authorities, which resulted in a request for reimbursement from the European Commission of EUR 250 million. I also refer you to an anecdote that I think is very significant. European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici, having invited seven EU countries to put an end to aggressive tax planning, having received a reply from the Luxembourg Prime Minister that the European Union, in principle, does not have to designate one country against another. But what is really the country – and more so, the founding member of the European Union – that is calling itself against all the others by being the driving force behind the fiercest tax dumping? Luxembourg, of course. The fight against tax evasion requires a lucid look at the situation of our economic partners, they were European. "We only fight well what we really see," Clara tells us in "Casse-noisette". This sentence seems simple and lucid to me. In this case, we cannot be content with a text that is the subject of a report which itself recognises the slow progress of European tax law. The tax evasion scandal should bring us all together. Even the majority should be sensitive to the issues of distortion of competition that it involves, failing which the principle of equality before taxation is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u222	She is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u223	You're growing inequality in the face of taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u224	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u225	The word government and macronian is Orwellian – "war is peace" – I know, but here, quite frankly, you have to see that you have increased taxes for those whose cuts are full, while making a lot of gifts in terms of tax optimization and to the richest, to those who already have the most. Of course, you did it with an argument, this famous "runoff"; But nowhere, on an international scale, is such a runoff observed: when you give to the richest, they make fun of themselves; When you make the law favorable to large groups, they benefit. If we are therefore committed to republican values, the law must be binding in order to prevent the mechanisms of fierce capitalism, financed overtly, and to put an end to indescribable practices. A tax escape, very concretely, is a person who goes to a hospital to break the appliances and burn the beds. It is someone who sacks public goods and public services, and to whom the keys of the European Union are then entrusted by leaving him the Presidency of the Commission. Behind the writing games and virtual transactions, it is very concretely this dismantling that is at work. All this seems very macroeconomic, the figures are so big that they don't even make sense anymore, but it has consequences for people's lives. No one, no doubt, knows exactly the amount of the "secure hole", but it is probably around 2 billion euros. Here we are talking about tens of billions! The "safety hole" is used to prevent people from taking care of themselves in the name of the necessary efforts, while here it's just if you don't apologize by pointing out that there may be a small problem. You have to have a little firmer hand. This afternoon, Secretary of State, I will support the 200 employees of Arjowiggins – perhaps you know this Seine-et-Marne company? – who, put on the tile, pay the broken pots of the financial game of the large groups. They never see people, like at Bic: they play, buy and sell, practice escape and optimisation. And behind, people find themselves on the tile, without protection, and useful activities are abandoned, for lack of an industrial strategy of France. Those who can buy and sell factories do so as they please, without ever worrying about employees or the development of the production tool. I also want to recall the sentence of a Bic employee, who has resonated a lot in my mind: "The worst thing is that they are in their right right. This is the whole problem: there are not enough rules, laws that would prevent these mechanisms that, on the contrary, the law permits. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq applauds]] In the face of this concern, we need to be very vigilant about the fiscal arrangements of our partners, a fortiori when they are European. I fear, however, that, with this text, we are only entitled to a smokescreen. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to show a great demand. We rarely have the opportunity to make our voice heard on this subject, which is a major one. I therefore call on you to send a strong signal to Luxembourg, proposing to the Government that it engage a fiscal arm capable of pulling the whole of European taxation upwards in the long run. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, together with the Committee on Finance for its opinion, seems to me to be the appropriate place to discuss it. I therefore solemnly ask you to refer this text back to committee, in order to give us time to convince our colleagues of the need to see higher and stronger.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u226	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u227	I would like to respond briefly to the speakers who spoke during the general discussion, as well as to Mrs Autain. The latter evoked the Orwellian verb, but one could also evoke its own, because it spoke brilliantly. However, the link between its developments and what brings us together this morning was sometimes tenuous: it dealt with social policy, a little bit of fiscal policy too, among other general considerations. However, I would like to say that the convention before you allows, not small ones, but big steps: it would translate into our law a bilateral agreement which involves tax advances, particularly obtained at the OECD. I am thinking, for example, of the definition of tax residence, which will help to combat fraud, or of the imposition in France of royalties currently paid in Luxembourg. In short, there are a number of substantial elements. Of course, Mrs Autain, you have a long list of proposals – and we are not left behind in this matter – but if I refer to the European and international framework, it is because the negotiations here are between two sovereign states – and I understand that you are defending national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u228	The people's!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u229	We therefore have to reach agreements, and we attach great political weight to these negotiations. In this case, as you have seen, Luxembourg has made concessions. You have referred to an economic and fiscal framework which, in reality, does not seem to me to be that of France. If we lower the corporate tax rate, it is not to give gifts to anyone, but because it affects many small and medium-sized enterprises, often taxed at a higher rate than large groups. This will involve SMEs which constitute considerable assets in our territories. You also talked about niches, a word-valise that could immediately throw suspicion. But the research tax credit, for example, allows France to be a leader in research and development. Let us not throw the baby away with the bath water, and let us bear in mind that a number of tax schemes contribute to France's attractiveness and competitiveness: there is nothing dishonoring about this. Finally, you will allow me to recall that Parliament has passed a draft law on the financing of social security for 2019 which provides for 2 billion euros not of deficit, but of surplus for the general scheme, and a return to balance for the first time since 2001, while implementing measures like the rest with zero charges and various social advances. The majority does not therefore have to be ashamed of its action in the radical fight against inequalities, which now requires the adoption of the text under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u230	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion for adjournment. Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u231	The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is fully aware that this is a policy of small steps, but a small step remains a step, even if the road is very long. Therefore, of course, we will not vote on the motion to adjourn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u232	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u233	It will be difficult to reach the level of Clémentine Autain, who has said everything and said well, but I must summarize the reasons why the group of La France insoubted, without surprise, supports the motion to adjourn. We should declare the fight against fraud and tax evasion a major national cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u234	She is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u235	It is indeed a major subject; It is even the most important thing, because if we brought back into the state coffers what tax evasion and evasion would remove from them, there would no longer be a public deficit, which leads to all austerity policies. The paradigm would then be completely different. On this subject, therefore, we must not be content with small steps, even if the small steps are always good to take: strong measures are needed. The country is upside down; However, the movement of yellow vests is precisely due to a deep sense of fiscal injustice. Yet here you propose an old world arrangement, proceeding in small steps, without taking the measure of what is happening. This is how we can maintain relations with Luxembourg, which is a tax haven that literally takes our pockets away from us by depriving us of our own wealth, which does not take account of the scale of the problem. Moreover, Clementine Autain said, the text contains little things; This is a fundamental question, which would be to become aware of the scale of the problem. It is as if, in the face of great banditry, you are proposing to put in the hands of our policemen – to quote a topical subject – water guns, telling us that it is still better than if they had empty hands! They may be able to splash the culprit, but that won't solve the problem. In good faith, Secretary of State, you are well aware that what you are proposing to adopt is absolutely not a solution, that it is not up to the true scandal whose social consequences are terrible. As you will understand, I will vote on the motion to adjourn. Thank you to all the colleagues who took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u236	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u237	No more than I, Mr Secretary of State, have you heard anyone say this morning that Luxembourg was not a tax haven or that there was no problem there. While some, seeing the glass half full, have valued the advances contained in the text, no one dared to say, with their hands on their hearts, that those who talk about tax havens are liars. Because everyone is well aware of the situation. It is precisely for this reason that the adjournment of the text is necessary. The Embassy of Luxembourg, represented in the public gallery, will thus hear the voice of the French people. The Executives are dealing together without being in line with the expectations of the people, and the French people are no longer – he says so forcefully today – supporting such tax mechanisms, because it is their very life, their quality of life, their public services and their future that are at stake. [[Secretary of State smiles]] The adjournment is therefore justified by the need to give you free hands, Secretary of State. It's to relieve you! In this way, you will be able to go back and discuss with our Luxembourg friends, who have heard the French people speak in this Chamber and who will become aware of the fact that it is no longer possible to pursue a tax policy of this kind vis-à-vis their neighbours and within the European Union. Leave to the peoples what is theirs, live in friendship and symbiosis with them. This is the idea of the original Europe; That is what I am defending by proposing, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, to adjourn the debate and to refer you back to your Luxembourg counterpart, so that you can then come back to us with a beautiful treaty that will take into account everything that has been said this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u238	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u239	As I explained on the motion to reject, the Liberties and Territories Group is in favour of a real debate on the text of the Convention. That is essential, because the text does not satisfy us. Admittedly, some progress can be made, but it is superficial and does not correspond to today's needs. I have heard the Government explain that it is not inactive in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. Mr Secretary of State, the activity does not prevent us from being more coherent in our fiscal relations with the other states, from making our rules more effective or from stepping up our action to stop the Luxembourg tax octopus which is damaging to us. You seem to be satisfied with the convention on the pretext that it will be completed later, depending on the European directives. But, Mr. Secretary of State, why wait? States, companies, tax practitioners are not waiting for us: they are showing reactivity and even inventiveness; They know at every moment how to get into the legal voids, in the blurry of our rules. The example of Luxembourg's space law illustrates very well this ability to detect legal silences and to use them for its benefit. If this is not, contrary to what Jean-Luc Mélenchon said earlier, an appropriation of space, which is prohibited by public international law, then there is, on the other hand, a real policy of fiscal attractiveness vis-à-vis leading companies in the space field. Like the United States, Luxembourg is thus able to build an aggressive fiscal policy on the silence of the texts. We must not submit; On the contrary, we must show firmness and anticipation. That is why we consider the request for adjournment to be relevant and useful. The text must be reworked, and Luxembourg must review its copy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u240	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u241	Having heard the verva of our colleagues, especially those of France, who are not in the mood, we must, I believe, return to the heart of the debate by asking simple questions. Does the convention make trade between tax services more transparent? The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u242	He's talking his hand in his pocket!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u243	Will it make it possible to better combat tax fraud by avoiding non-taxation? The answer is yes. Does it allow a definition consistent with our requests for essential concepts such as permanent establishment, tax residence, dividends, and I pass it on? Yes. Will it make it possible to increase tax revenues for the French public treasury? Yes. Will it make it possible to strengthen the international fight against tax evasion? The answer is again yes. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and FI groups]] Of course, the convention does not solve all the problems and there is no great evening, Mr Lecoq, Mrs Autain, in the fight against international tax fraud,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u244	One night, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u245	...but fighting that we conduct day after day and foot on foot, especially in this assembly. Mr Corbière spoke of a great national cause; We are working on it – I am working with Ugo Bernalicis, from the group of La France insoubted, as part of a mission to assess the fight against financial crime. So don't try each other for lack of motivation. We're all in the same boat. We are all dealing with difficult partners who only give in to pressure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u246	Well, let's put pressure on them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u247	This is naturally the case in Luxembourg. By this convention, we don't give any blanks; We simply take note of important achievements. I understand that the motion for adjournment did not express a rejection of the convention, but, ladies and gentlemen, provided you with an opportunity for an interesting forum on the fight against tax fraud. I thank you for that, but naturally the La République en marche group will vote against your motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u248	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u249	The Republicans will vote against the motion for adjournment. We have announced this and are explained in the gallery. We cannot say that there was no debate: it took place in committee, and then all morning here. As Mrs Rabault, president of the Socialist and related group, said, we can see the glass half empty or half full. For our part, we prefer to see it half full; Others see it half empty: it is their right and their choice. We believe that the text makes it possible to take a step in the right direction; A step that may not be big enough, which is not a big leap forward – to take up a vocabulary that the colleagues who are facing us will understand perfectly – but which seems to us to be embarking on the right path.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u250	To find out if the glass is half empty or half full, we prefer it to be transparent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u251	We too, my dear colleague. On the form, however, there is a problem that should be studied at the Conference of Presidents, Mr President, the chairman of the committee: we need to streamline our work on conventions and treaties. During the Fourteenth Parliament, 156 agreements and conventions were approved, of which only 23 had been discussed in the Chamber, or about 5 per year. As for the current Parliament last July, we examined some 30 of them, 11 of which, or more than a third, were the subject of a lifting of the simplified procedure, i.e. they were debated in the House. At this rate, we will not be able to vote on all the conventions envisaged. The best proof of this is that the examination of the convention with Djibouti originally included also on this morning's agenda has been postponed:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u252	For other reasons!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u253	...it was well known that we would not have time to proceed, as a request for the lifting of the simplified procedure had been made. And all this for what? To have intellectually interesting discussions, but which do not make it possible to change the text of the Convention, since we cannot touch a single comma. In short, it is not very useful, except to make videos for YouTube and Facebook and to convey messages to activists – a political goal that is perfectly understandable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u254	I have had five times more speaking time than in committee: that's what it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u255	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u256	In addition, in these situations, key words activate certain discourses. However, I do not want to talk about Palestinian prisoners for half a day as soon as this is a convention with Israel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u257	Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u258	... or that, on the pretext of examining a tax treaty, we are talking about tax evasion, when that is not the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u259	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-02-14-O1148.u260	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill for a school of trust. The meeting is adjourned.
