ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u1	I should like to inform you that the President of the Assembly has decided that, because of the national tribute to the thirteen French soldiers who died in Mali, which will be delivered on Monday 2 December at 15.00 in Les Invalides, the public meeting will begin at 18.00 on that day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u2	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill by Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille and several of his colleagues, aimed at responding to the demand of patients by creating reception points for immediate care (No. 2226, 2428).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u3	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u4	The bill of our colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille humbly aims to improve the care of unscheduled care. Our health care system is now facing very important transformation and modernization challenges, but at the same time it has to face new demands from patients. They are in fact seeking a rapid response in terms of diagnosis and care for simple but immediate health needs. However, the health system is not in a position to respond sufficiently clearly and effectively to this recurring and growing demand. As a result, emergency services are hosting more and more people: more than 21 million crossings in 2017 compared to 10 million in 1996. They thus provide a considerable amount of unscheduled care that should not fall within their scope of action and it is in the territories affected by medical desertification – including the Cher where my constituency is – that they suffer the most from this phenomenon. Yet the tools exist – human resources, reception and technical structures, and so on. It is therefore not a fatality but the absence of a coordination and organizational mechanism. This is the whole purpose of the text which, in fact, aims to rely on general city medicine – an essential pillar – to meet the demand for unscheduled immediate care. The rapporteur reminded the committee that many measures have already been taken to mobilise city medicine, but the figures mentioned above show that this has not really been a success. However, the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, promulgated last July, has made it possible to tackle the problem by developing several tools for coordinating city medicine through the territorial professional health communities – CPTS – and territorial health projects – PTS. This is the lever that the rapporteur has used in the new wording of Article 1. The aim of this project is to have the Regional Health Agency – ARS – label existing structures, which have technical platforms for imaging and biology, or provide access to them, and in which general practitioners would organize themselves to provide care that does not require a transition to an emergency. This mechanism is therefore of common sense since it will provide the necessary link between all the actors and the existing tools. In addition, it is fully in line with the national strategy "Ma santé 2022" since it will eventually use the vector of the PTS and CPTS whose rise in power is progressive. It also guarantees a complete medical service thanks to a specification drawn up by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, which will impose a minimum technical plateau, a sine qua non condition of the labeling by the ARS. What is more, we can only satisfy ourselves with the obligation of recourse to the paying third party and the prohibition of exceeding fees by the reception points for immediate care, the ISPs. This is in line with our ambition of access to just and equal care for all. This bill is therefore a relevant step forward in promoting the management of unscheduled care by city medicine, which must be seen as the cornerstone of the new organization of our health system. However, it is based on recently adopted mechanisms – the application of which is only just beginning for CPTS, and which will be longer to establish for PTS. Article 1 therefore states that the creation and operation of the ISAPs will be provided for in the STPs or health projects of the CPTS and that, pending their constitution, the Director General of the RSA may take the initiative to label this structure. We believe that this provision is essential for this structure to be operational as soon as possible. That is why, in parallel with the rapporteur, we will be presenting an amendment to restore it, since the committee has deleted it, while taking into account certain remarks and concerns. We stress that the aim of the PASI structures is indeed to organize around CPTS, even after they have been labeled by the Director General of the ARS. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] Mr rapporteur, it goes without saying that the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will enthusiastically vote on your bill. We take this opportunity to commend your investment in the many health issues on the Assembly's agenda since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u5	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u6	The bill put forward by our colleagues in the MODEM Group, at the initiative of Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, which we are examining, is based on an intuition: that of a change in the behaviour of our fellow citizens, who are increasingly demanding a rapid and concentrated response in one place to their health needs. It is true that we could deplore this society from the "all right now, all the time", consumer rather than reasoned actress regarding access to health. This requires better health education, but this is not the subject of this debate. I therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposal, which I understand is the result of her professional experience and her exchanges with health professionals. This is a pragmatic initiative aimed at simplifying the lives of patients. It aims to create a new label, that of a reception point for immediate care, within the city medicine. The machinery was also improved by the rapporteur during the examination in committee. In the original draft law, in fact, SIAPs were considered as an integral part of the public hospital service, which could lead to confusion, particularly as regards the articulation of the new structure with the regulation of emergencies. One could fear that a new step would be created, adding complexity, to the risk of a loss of chance for the patient before being taken over by the emergencies. The new system seems to us to avoid this pitfall. It will provide more visibility to the reception facilities in city medicine that provide unscheduled care and have a light technical plateau. We regret, moreover, that this bill was somewhat emptied of its scope by the majority last week in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u7	In any case the majority is no longer in session...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u8	The implementation of the ISAPs was in fact conditional on the creation of territorial health projects,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u9	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u10	... whose principle has only just been endorsed by the health law. Since it is feared that none will be effective for several years, this would mean killing the rapporteur's proposal in the egg. We regret it. This initiative is not the Copernician revolution of medicine and I believe that the rapporteur agrees quite well, but a simple additional means made available to the actors. Why deprive oneself of a tool that is nothing but a faculty? Let us trust the local actors to seize it if they consider it necessary and appropriate to the reality of their territory. [[Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, applauds]] Members of the IUD, Action and Independent Group will support the compromise solution proposed by the rapporteur. It would allow the SRA to label an existing structure in the form of an ISAP. This structure would then be designed to integrate the health project of a CPTS. Our group is convinced that all the levers for improving access to the care of our citizens must be experienced. Therefore, Mr rapporteur, we will support this pragmatic initiative by our colleagues in the MODEM Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u11	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u12	The future of the public hospital has largely animated our discussions in recent weeks, with a bill to finance social security still insufficient in the face of the enormous challenges facing our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u14	The mobilizations of recent months have confirmed the fact that we have been making for several years: that of saturated emergencies and services that are struggling to fulfil their initial mission. Almost all categories of hospital staff – doctors, nurses or even interns – are united to alert us about their working conditions, the lack of resources, their exhaustion and the risks that this poses to patients. The situation has become more than critical. It has, moreover, forced the Government to present a plan for the public hospital in disaster, which, if it is to alleviate our hospitals a little bit, will unfortunately not solve the crisis. That is the context in which we are considering this bill by our colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille. It highlights an essential aspect of the emergency crisis and, more broadly, of medical desertification: that of medical time which needs to be rethought and reorganized. It must be in terms of physical and geographical proximity, it is true – the unequal distribution of the medical supply affects access to care throughout the territory – but it must also be in terms of waiting times – it takes several months to get an appointment with a cardiologist or an ophthalmologist, not to mention practitioners who refuse new patients. It is because of these longer waiting times that people give up treatment or go to emergencies to have an immediate response to their health problems. That is why we welcome the logic of gradation of care underlying the bill. The government's "My Health 2022" strategy is part of this logic, by making the coordination of actors around a territorial health project the basic principle of our health care system. In fact, we were in favour of it, but felt that we could further decline this principle. This is what is proposed here with the labelling of reception points for immediate care. The creation of these ISAPs would allow, on the one hand, the provision of simple technical trays for the immediate care of the patient and, on the other hand, the easier identification by patients – while we know that the choice of emergencies can be that of ease in the face of the sometimes complex organization of the health system in the territories. The bill therefore opens up an interesting avenue, although we are aware that it is only a tiny part of the response to the problem of access to care. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group supported it from the beginning of our work, despite some concerns about the funding of these structures and their attractiveness for doctors. Unfortunately, the majority made the choice in committee to amend the original proposal by considerably limiting the scope. We deplore him. The rewriting amendment advocated by the rapporteur, however, was in the right direction, and even in the sense of the Government and the majority, since it was part of the coordinated exercise. The labeling scheme by the Director of the ARS also introduced flexibility. However, making the labelling of reception points conditional on the presence of a territorial health project and on a territorial health professional community is tantamount to considerably nullifying the scope of this scheme. We are not against CPTS, but on the contrary, we encourage them, but their installation and upsurge takes time. As has been said, there are 400 CPTS or CPTS projects in the territory, out of the 1,000 communities expected. The rapporteur has rightly pointed out that it will take two to three years for the CPTS and five years for the PTS to come into being. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] If we adopt the bill as amended by the majority in committee, we will deprive ourselves of a flexible, effective and immediately mobilizable tool to respond to the urgency of medical desertification. Our group deeply regrets such a weakening of this proposal. That is why we will support the rapporteur's amendment, which aims at the immediate labelling of the reception points, while giving them the objective of organising themselves around CPTS, even ex post facto. It is a good balance and a new step to improve access to care throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u15	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u16	We are again debating health, while for months hospital services, especially emergency services, have been on strike to denounce the blatant lack of human and financial resources. I would also like to extend a warm greeting to the health workers in La Réunion and all over France, whom I will be pleased to meet during the strike day of 5 December. For eight months now, the Government has been pretending to listen and has been providing inconclusive and inadequate solutions. The aim of this new bill is to remedy the congestion of emergency services, and because: according to the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – DREES – the number of emergencies increased by 42% between 2002 and 2015 to some 20 million per year. However, the Court of Auditors estimates that there would have been 3.6 million unnecessary passages in 2017. We believe that it is time to put things in order: these "unnecessary" passages are rather inappropriate because they are linked to care that should be delivered by a city general practitioner. Everyone is aware of the shortage of physicians and child care services, which is one of the factors that congests emergencies. However, let us not look at it: emergency services also suffer from chronic understaffing. The result is that patients who wait for six, eight or ten hours for care, patients who die on stretchers, and hospital staff with breathlessness – burn-out and suicides have become commonplace in the French hospital community. Caregivers are suffering from a growing disinvestment; They are sick because they are trying to hold on to a system that collapses because of the liberal policies imposed on them. The bill we are looking at today is designed to create ISAPs to treat patients with simple pathologies that do not require a transition to an emergency. In fact, it only confirms the situation: seeing the lack of resources, an annex structure is created, but it will not be enough. According to the members of La France insoumée, this text will be little more than too fragile a rustine. In order to protect the health of the population, a massive recruitment of 600,000 health professionals is essential – this is our estimate. For these purposes, we propose, among other things, the creation of a body of paid medical officers during their studies, to alleviate the shortage and also medical desertification. Another proposal is the mandatory abolition of the National Health Insurance Expenditure Objective – the ONDAM – which merely obliges health expenditure, whereas we should simply treat it as soon as necessary, without worrying about accounting considerations. Finally, there is of course a need to abolish fee-for-service, which imposes a logic of productivity in care services, the aim of which, on the contrary, should be to guarantee the effectiveness of care and humanity due to the sick. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not done, our health care system will collapse completely. Lives are at stake; We need to eradicate suffering. Then let's dare! In the meantime, you will understand that your bill leaves us at least sceptical, even if we welcome the search for solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u17	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u18	Barely tabled, already rewritten: the MODEM Group's bill on the creation of PASI, which we are looking at today, has undergone major changes at the commission stage. As a result of an amendment by the rapporteur redrafting the operative part, we are deciding on a different version of the original draft law. This legislation initially provided for the establishment of PASI in health facilities, after authorisation by the RHAs, to provide care outside of emergency medicine. The aim was therefore to create parallel access to emergencies, the operation of which would be carried out by general practitioners. In committee, the text has been revised to include these reception points in the CPTS and the PTS, devices which are by the hand of liberal doctors and whose effectiveness we strongly doubt. Subject to this reservation, these reception points could then be labeled by the SRA for a period of five years. If the first version of this text seemed to us to be risky in several ways, the rewritten version seems to us to be convoluted and does not provide any new answers in terms of access to care. It is risky because it starts from a very questionable diagnosis of the difficulties our health care system is experiencing. While the number of emergencies has exploded in recent years, due in particular to medical desertification, you suggest that a significant number of unjustified hospital visits, of the order of 20%, could be dealt with differently. However, a study published in October 2019 undermines the myth of abusive passages to emergencies, which is inappropriately used in only 6% of cases. This text mainly ignores the root causes of the massive use of hospital emergencies: the ageing of the population on the one hand and the increase in chronic diseases on the other. Your proposal for a law is too hasty, because it could lead to a reduction in the scope of emergency services and, therefore, justify a reduction in their resources at the same time as hospital staff are mobilizing across the country to save the public hospital. In this regard, the plan announced by the Government last week misses its target, and the €300 million envelope for hospitals in 2020 is largely insufficient to meet the needs. Finally, we are concerned that your text will increase the confusion between the public and the private sector as you open the labeling of PASI to private institutions other than those involved in the public hospital service. According to this logic, the care of insured persons could be carried out by commercial clinics which would see it as an additional opportunity to have a door to hospitalisation for the most solvent patients. The amendments made in committee did not remove the reservations we have about this bill. You are making the extra bet that liberal doctors will organize themselves within the framework of territorial groupings to take care of unscheduled care, without guarantee in terms of results. In the end, we are struggling to see what the concrete contributions of this text are in relation to the existing arrangements. The solutions to improve access to the care of our fellow citizens are known: strengthening and deploying nursing homes; opening of hospital beds to relieve emergencies; overall increase of the hospital budget by 4%, as required by hospital staff. These new means could create the posts that are so lacking in the Government's latest announcements. Pending substantial financial commitments to the public hospital by the executive, we see the proposed scheme as a mere palliative that does not address the problem of access to care. That is why the Communist Members will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u19	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u20	Today we are considering the bill of our colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, whom I would like to thank for his determination to respond to the expressed demand of patients by proposing the creation of a new tool available to health professionals. We all share its concern to improve access to care for patients who require rapid medical care but are not part of emergency services. This is a major issue for our health care system, for patients as well as for caregivers, whose anger we have heard. Over the past two years, the Government and the majority have taken up this issue. The response to the unscheduled demand for care is an integral part of the plan for equal access to care in the territories, presented in October 2017, and the "My Health 2022" strategy. Both, based on feedback from the field and broad consultations with patients, professionals, future professionals and federations, were praised by the various actors who work daily to meet the needs of patients in the territories. I commend our colleague Thomas Mesnier for the work he has carried out in the context of the missions entrusted to him on unscheduled care and on the recasting of emergencies – two issues that cannot be addressed separately. This work has revealed that a significant part of the saturation of emergency services is due to the lack of a structured response to the demand expressed by patients for prompt care for certain types of care, such as light trauma, and has been fully integrated into the Government's strategy on access to care and the transformation of the health system. Thanks to the "Ma santé 2022" strategy, the action is now structured around the CPTS, spaces for organizing city health professionals to provide a collective response to the needs of the population in a territory. The momentum is fully at work since there are 400 CPTS or CPTS projects across the national territory. The adoption in July of the Law on the Organization and Transformation of the Health System has made it possible to take several new major steps: abolition of the numerus clausus, reorganization of city care, transformation of community hospitals, intensification of cooperation between professionals and development of telemedicine, in order to improve rapid access to care and to abolish distances. Everything is there to transform and adapt our health care system to current and future challenges. However, we need to accelerate this reform movement through complementary levers. This is why the Minister of Solidarity and Health presented in September a re-foundation pact for emergencies with €750 million over three years, in order to put in place concrete means to orient patients towards responding to their needs, to generalise the routes of direct admission of elderly people to hospital without going through emergencies, and to strengthen the offer of consultation without appointments in city medicine. In the Social Security Funding Bill for 2020, we also opened up the possibility of direct recourse to routine biology examinations through access to off-site biology, without going through the hospital. Last week, the Government strengthened these measures through an unprecedented plan for the public hospital. It helps to restore oxygen to the hospital, improve the day-to-day lives of caregivers, raise tension in the professions and invest again when the hospital needed it so much. The resources allocated to this plan have been integrated into the social security budget in order to be deployed immediately. Your proposal for a law, Mr rapporteur, gives professionals the opportunity to take advantage of a new tool to organize the response to the demand for rapid care that is not an emergency. SIAPs can be created if they are provided for by the health project of one or more STCPs or by the STP that we have introduced in the law on the organization and transformation of the health system. As our group pointed out in committee last week, the inclusion of the reception points in the framework of these two tools is crucial to ensure the buy-in of professionals and not to break the dynamic of deployment of the CPTS. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For this reason, it seems consistent to us to foresee that SIAPs can only be derogatoryly labeled by SRAs pending the constitution of SITCs in the territories. We appreciate the work you have done, Mr rapporteur, to achieve a drafting consistent with the health strategy that we collectively support with the actors on the ground. The La République en Marche group will therefore support this amended bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u21	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u22	The purpose of this bill by our colleague Cyrille Isaac-Sibille is to create reception points for immediate care, the ISPs, in order to meet the demand for access to patient care. Increasingly, they are calling for a rapid medical response and the possibility of performing all their medical examinations in the same place – a problem that refers to the current gaps in our health care system. In this respect, the Republican Group shares some of the rapporteur's observations regarding the organisation of our health system. Given, on the one hand, its current organisation and the changes in the way in which liberal medicine is practised, city medicine no longer responds optimally to the demand for patient care. Many territories suffer from a lack of doctors and technical trays bringing together in one place the necessary equipment a minima – be it radiology, biology, suture equipment, plasters or sterilization – to meet the demand for immediate care. This is why some patients refer to hospital emergencies: faced with legitimate concern, they want to get a rapid diagnosis, within appropriate time frames. Clearly, therefore, there is a correlation between the need for immediate access to patient care and the increase in the number of patients receiving emergency care. Between 2002 and 2015, the number of crossings in emergency services increased by 42% to over 20 million, and the increase in attendance continues year after year. Moreover, according to the Court of Auditors, there are about 3.5 million so-called irrelevant – rather than useless – passages to emergencies each year, i.e. almost 20% of the total attendance and as many cares that could have been avoided if patients had found a satisfactory solution in city medicine. Everyone knows that the public hospital is going through an unprecedented crisis that is obviously not limited to the issue of access to care, although it is clear that the 20% of "non-relevant" passages to emergencies are involved in its worsening. Moreover, this crisis is not likely to be solved by the measures recently announced by the Government, not to mention the social security budget, far from being up to the level. In this context, this bill seems to offer an interesting alternative solution to partially reduce congestion in emergency services. Let us note, however, that it does not create anything new. The ISPs are designed to provide care for patients who require immediate care and whose life-saving prognosis is not engaged, based on existing hospital facilities, whether public or private. The PASI labeling and its opening hours will be determined through an agreement with the ARS. The general practitioners who will work there will be able to rely on the advice of specialists present in the structure or consulted by telemedicine, and will be paid for the act agreed upon. In short, the missions and the method of agreement of the ISPs are comparable to the local hospitals. This text therefore has nothing revolutionary and falls rather within the regulatory level: it is basically only a matter of developing and improving the existing one – which is already not so bad! We are aware that access to care is one of the major challenges our fellow citizens expect us to address. That is why the Republican Group has always supported initiatives to improve it. We have thus passed the law of modernization of our health system, through which the territorial professional health communities, the CPTS, have been created. The bill before us today is in the same direction; Our Group therefore welcomed it in principle. Unfortunately, during its consideration in committee, a sub-amendment of the working Republic group has completely changed the nature of the ISPs: from now on, they must be created within the framework of a health professional community, but also within the framework of a territorial health project, in order to fit within the normative framework of the "My Health 2022" strategy of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. The proposal for a law, whose initial ambition was to provide a flexible and adaptable solution to the territories, is particularly complex. I can only denounce this sectarianism of the La République group on the move: not bearing in mind that a good initiative, it was modest, came from another political group, even though it would belong to the parliamentary majority, it has greatly stiffened the text and deprived it of much of its interest. We do not refuse to witness the conflicts of the majority and regret that the bill has been emptied of its substance and distorted from its primary objective. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We support all initiatives to bring about flexible and concrete solutions to the problems of access to the care of our citizens, but this bill, as it stands, is unfortunately no longer part of it. We will therefore support the rapporteur's amendment to restore the original text in a few minutes' time. On the other hand, we will abstain from voting on the whole text if it remains in line with the wording adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u23	The general discussion is closed. Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to respond to the speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u24	I thank the speakers and the groups who have spoken in favour of the bill. To those who still have doubts, and in particular to Mr Ratenon, who has referred to the strikes of the emergency services, I would like to say that this text cannot and does not want to solve the problem of emergencies. He seeks, modestly, to relieve them, avoiding these inappropriate passages which he himself mentioned. We can certainly discuss the numbers, Mr.Peu: do inappropriate passages represent 20% or 6% of the total number of emergency passages? What is certain is that the bill is aimed at general city medicine, because general practitioners work mainly in the city. We do not seek to oppose the private and the public. General medicine can also be practiced in multidisciplinary medical homes, in health centres or in nursing homes. When these reception places have a technical tray, they can be labeled PASI.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u25	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u26	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u27	I am, of course, in favour of my colleague Isaac-Sibille's initiative to create reception points for immediate care, especially if they allow for more readability, by renaming them, to the local medical services and to the places of reception without appointments that already exist in the territories – which would, at the same time, lead to an improvement in the effectiveness of emergency services in the treatment of genuine emergencies. On the other hand, the bill, too modest, will not solve the main problem in my view: that of medical deserts. My territory, that of Laval, is directly concerned, and I wonder: will there be general practitioners in the PASI? I recall that at the national level, 44% of general practitioners do not agree to receive new patients. In my city – Laval has 50,000 inhabitants, 90,000 with the agglomeration – 60% of general practitioners refuse new patients: 68% say they already have too many and 16% argue about their next retirement. This is where the main difficulty for our territories lies: we no longer have general practitioners! My job as a Member of Parliament is to constantly warn about the need to find a solution to this problem. The territory of Laval is surrounded by large cities, close to the coast, and it will find it difficult to be attractive... This is an important question, to which we must answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u28	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 8 and 9. Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u29	It is intended to restore the original wording of the article, part of which has been amended against the rapporteur's opinion in committee. It does, however, take into account the concerns expressed in the committee, stating that the aim of the SIAPs is to organize around the STCPs, including after they have been labeled by the Director General of the Regional Health Agency. The CPTS are gradually developing, but the expected territorial grid will not be reached for two years, according to the most optimistic estimates. As for TSPs, their implementation will be longer because they require the consolidation of different actors in the health system – city medicine, medical-social sector, public health institutions. The sole objective of the amendment is therefore to provide the flexibility necessary for the short-term operational effectiveness and responsiveness of the ISAPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u30	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u31	It is identical to the previous one. The purpose of the bill is to create a flexible, responsive and immediately applicable mechanism that could be implemented in three stages: immediately, as experiments are under way on the ground – I mentioned those in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, but the commission has also looked at those in Yssingeaux and Saint-Malo, and Mrs Bannier has addressed the situation in the city of Laval, which is also experiencing such experiences. All existing structures will be able to be labeled in PASI by the ARS very quickly. In a second phase, we naturally wish to accompany the CPTS. As soon as a CPTS is in place, it will be able to use the simple tool of the PASI in its territorial project. The third stage is that once a PTS is in place, the city, hospital and medical-social medicine will be able to reach an agreement and the PASI will be integrated into this framework. In short, these three steps are successive and independent: if the structure exists, it is labeled by the ARS; when the CPTS is in place, it may seize the device; later, if a territorial health project emerges, PASI can also take its place. That is why the amendment is intended to replace "or" with "and". Finally, he added the words "until the establishment of a territorial health professional community" to take into account the deliberations in the committee and to clarify that the PASI will be labeled by the CPTS – and not by the ARS – once the community in question has been constituted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u32	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u33	At its meeting yesterday under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u34	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u35	The Government is committed to ensuring that SIAPs are part of cooperative relationships between actors in the same territory around the organization of unscheduled care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u36	It's never good when it starts like this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u37	Providing for the inclusion of the ISAP in a CPTS project is an essential guarantee of this cooperative dynamic between actors and of the coherence of solutions provided in the same territory. The pace of CPTS' constitution is dynamic, with four hundred and fifty projects, almost fifty of which are already in operation, on 15 November in territories with more than 4 million inhabitants. This deployment is determined by the increasing mobilization of actors on the ground. The full grid of the Territory therefore represents a medium-term objective for the Government. Territorial health projects are the next, optional step: as you know, they are a new tool proposed to the actors of a territory, once organised in CPTS, to deepen and formalize their cooperation. In this context, the dual inclusion in the CPTS and the PTS as proposed by the committee seems to us rigid. On the other hand, this amendment seems to offer us more flexibility while preserving the guarantee of a good connection with city medicine. The possibility opened up by the amendment of a label on the initiative of the Director General of the RSA, in the absence of CPTS in the territory, is also an element of flexibility welcome to us, even if it must remain an exceptional and transitional solution at the same time. For all these reasons, we are in favour of this amendment, which will make it possible to offer, as you said, the rapporteur, early solutions for taking care of immediate care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u38	Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u39	I welcome the Government's support for this amendment. I have already announced that our group will also support it in restoring the article to its original wording. We are pleased that the path of simplification and adaptation to the territories has been favoured, in line with the original objective set out in the text. We will therefore be pleased to support the identical amendments made by the rapporteur and the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u40	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u41	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 10 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u42	This is an amendment to the pledge waiver.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u43	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u44	I thank the Government for this amendment, to which I am obviously expressing a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u45	In explanations of vote on the bill as a whole, Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u46	I had announced in the general discussion that we would abstain from voting on the text as submitted to us. In view of the developments that have taken place during this sitting, which will have been very brief thanks to the broad consensus we have reached on the objectives of the bill and the means allocated to achieve this, the Republican Group will finally vote in favour. I congratulate the rapporteur on this solution, which is certainly not revolutionary but which will make it possible to improve here and there several situations in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u47	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u48	The Liberties and Territories Group will vote on the bill. The PASI scheme is modest, but given the urgency of the situation, we can only support any initiative to improve even a little access to the care of our fellow citizens. We are pleased that it has been possible to reach a compromise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u49	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u50	The IUD, Act and Independent Group will also vote in favour of the bill. I welcome his rapporteur, Cyril Isaac-Sibille, who has a habit of proposing progress in our committee work, and I thank the Government for accepting the small change that makes it possible to move in the right direction by diversifying the offer. The situation, as we know, is difficult, but by adding together all the proposed mechanisms, including the CPTS, we should be able to improve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u51	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u52	Well done and thank you! Bravo, first of all, because the initiative, however modest, contributes to the great government ambition to solve the problems of the hospital, in particular the crucial issue of emergencies, so many that a package of solutions is necessarily welcome. Thank you, then, after the somewhat conflicting exchange that we had in committee – the chair of the committee remembers it. We are all very committed, behind the French government, to resolving these issues, and we have all, based on our respective experiences – in this case, a successful experience in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, which Cyrille Isaac-Sibille knows well – the ambition to propose different solutions according to the difficulties and the territories. We do this each time with humility, but we have to do it every time in a collective spirit. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thanks to the work done by the Government and that of our colleague Thomas Mesnier, who will be in addition to governmental and parliamentary initiatives in a few weeks' time, we are taking a good step forward, because we are trying to ensure that all energies are mobilized and directed in the same direction, and because we are able to work together. That is how the nation can face such enormous challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u53	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u54	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u55	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] On behalf of the Republic on the move, I once again welcome the determination and tenacity of the rapporteur. I am delighted that we have been able to find a compromise. In view of the positive developments that have taken place in the text since its consideration in committee, in connection with the Government and with you, Mr. Rapporteur, our group will of course vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u56	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u57	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 40 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 40 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u58	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u59	I would like to thank the Members of all the groups that have worked upstream, in committee, to enable the bill to be adopted; the Government and the services of the Ministry of Health, with which our exchanges have been valuable; the services of the Assembly, of course, without which everything would have taken even more time; All the Members present, finally, who unanimously voted on the text. Although Thomas Mesnier is not here, I will finally remind you that unscheduled care has two aspects, one that calls for a response from city medicine, the other that needs to be treated by hospital medicine; We therefore look forward to its proposals on this last aspect. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] Even if the bill we have just voted on is modest, it is the closure of the organization of the CPTS and will allow the city medicine to meet the need for unscheduled care, which it does not do enough today, for lack of the means that the PASI will give it. Thank you all again!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-28-O1088.u60	Next sitting, Monday, 2 December, at 18:00: Final reading of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
