ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u1	The next item is the question of the Government's policy on the maintenance of public services in the Territory. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u2	My question concerns the maintenance of public services, particularly in border areas. I will take three examples. The Ministry of Economy and Finance is currently working to reduce the mesh size of tax and cash centres. Some communes in my riding have 80% of their assets working overseas. They are confronted, like pensioners who have worked outside our borders, with specific tax procedures and procedures, whereas they have only poorly adapted forms and silent notices concerning often unusual situations. To deal with their case, tax services must be able to fully fulfil their role of consulting, listening and relaying with headquarters. Similar questions need to be asked about transport. Where railway sections appear within the national framework as a fine mesh for journeys between home and work, examination from a cross-border perspective makes it possible to better identify the rising connections identified by the European Commission. These are real economic and environmental development issues for a territory. I can mention the case of the Saarbrücken-Haguenau-Rastatt-Karlsruhe railway line. The population is also concerned about access to health facilities and future community hospitals. The recent installation of a mammograph is a real step forward for the hospital in Wissembourg, which increases initiatives for German patients and parturients. However, the sustainability of maternity is not acquired, far from it, like that of cross-border emergency or surgical services. This ambition is recognised at European level by the allocation of INTERREG funds from the Territorial Cooperation Programme, which does not seem to be taken into account in the Ministry's indicators. Last week, the President of the Republic made ambitious announcements concerning various community services such as hospitals and schools. On the basis of the examples I have just given, I would like to ask you about the need to review the indicators that determine whether or not public services are maintained in rural border areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u3	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u5	Mr Reiss, you have just mentioned a number of public services, including transport, for which the cross-border problem must be taken into account. Your useful comments are shared by the Ministry of Transport within the framework of the cooperation programmes. You have also addressed the issue of health, citing community facilities. The President of the Republic announced at his press conference last week that he wished that, now, in all the communes of France, whether cross-border or not, no hospital or school could be closed without the mayor's consent. One can imagine that, for reasons that we all know – the demographic evolution of the school population or the difficulties encountered for many years in recruiting doctors – the question of maintaining equipment or an institution can be asked, but it is important to work in conjunction with local authorities. The decision of the President of the Republic to make the closure of a school or hospital conditional on the agreement of the mayor, therefore of the municipal council, gives us time to examine the indicators of the maintenance of the territories' grid in public services, which are not prescriptive today. I conclude by going back to your first example: the public finance centres and the particular problem that you see as border workers. In the coming weeks, the Directorate-General for Public Finance will be launching a programme to reorganise its network. We want to set up a revised, more local geography and pursue two ambitions: the first is to give public finance agents better working conditions, a very large number of cash or contact points of DGFIP – the Directorate-General for Public Finance –, driven by less than four or even three agents, currently fulfilling their mission under unacceptable working conditions; The second ambition is to bring together the most expert services to form real platforms. These objectives must, in our view, be accompanied by a more fine-tuning of the territory, based on the established multi-annual permanence systems, including the possibility of seconding officials from DGFIP, specialists on specific issues, to provide a close response to users. This will be the case in the border areas to deal with the problems you have mentioned. Our ambition is not to reduce the network and service, but rather to be as close as possible while increasing our strength.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u6	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u7	Beyond the general blur and the unfunded measures, I recall from the press conference of the President of the Republic an announcement supposed to bring calm back into our campaigns: the creation of France services houses, taking Canada as a model. If I regret that your majority is not inspired by this country in the matter of migration – by triplanting the financial thresholds allowing family reunification or by prohibiting new non-contributory entrants from receiving social assistance – it is nevertheless necessary to clarify the national representation on what will really be these France services houses whose President of the Republic wishes to equip each canton, which would be the heirs of the 1300 public service houses already in place but whose funding you have frozen for a few months. One house France services per canton, does it mean, Madam Minister for Cohesion of Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, that two of the three MSAPs currently in the canton of Calais 2 will have to close? What will be the financial cost of these new houses to local authorities? Do they not constitute a new way of depriving the town halls of certain skills by grouping them into one place in the canton, which obliges the rural people to travel 40 or 50 kilometres in order to obtain an answer to their question? Because, Madam Minister, a place where the citizen can find a concrete answer to his administrative demands, it already exists: it is called a town hall. Of course, since, again this year, more than half of the French communes will continue to see their overall operating budget decrease, our town halls, throughout the national territory, are less and less able to respond to the demands of our fellow citizens. Not only do they find themselves financially dry and worried because they are dispossessed of their fiscal autonomy as a result of the reduction in the housing tax, but they are also, gradually, stripped of their prerogatives and influence. End of the issuance of identity cards, planned disappearance of small water unions, local planning plans at the intercommunal level, mergers of more or less forced communes, dismemberment of rural intercommunalities, disappearance of the public offices of local HLM, doubling of the size of cantons, recasting of regions, double the size of the constituencies: you continue a policy of keeping the citizen away from the decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u8	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u9	Your desire to stop closing school without the mayor's assent is nothing less than perlimpinpin powder. Your government remains the one that closes classes one after the other – more than 1000 will be closed in France next year – without leaving the choice to local elected officials. This is the climax of hypocrisy: the mayor will ultimately only be good at extinguishing the light. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My question is therefore simple, Madam Minister: would it not be better simply to give more powers, more resources and more fiscal autonomy directly to the municipalities, which remain the only real step of proximity?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u10	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u11	Mr Dumont, you are asking me about the deployment of France services houses, announced by the President of the Republic at his address last week. These houses are the natural extension of service houses to the public, or MSAP, which have developed in recent years, but which remain too little known and whose services are of unequal quality. There are currently 1340 in the whole of the national territory, as you have indicated, and 85% of them are located in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants. They can be carried by communes or intercommunalities, but also by La Poste or an association. We have not frozen funding for the MSAPs: the appropriations allocated to them have increased by 47% in the budget for 2019, to reach 15.7 million euros. The announcement by the President of the Republic therefore shows, contrary to what you are saying, that we want to improve these public services throughout the country. It is a question of creating a name, a mark, more easily identifiable by citizens than the current acronym. The France services houses will naturally be located in the town halls – I visit the entire territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u12	But they don't exist yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u13	Current public service houses are located in the town halls. Given that there are 1340 MSAPs in France and that our country has 2100 cantons, it can be inferred that the number of places devoted to services to the public will increase by at least 30%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u14	In any case, it's clear that you didn't make anything up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u15	Mr Dumont, I would already like to appease your great concern: there will of course be no suppression of houses in the cantons where there are several. On the other hand, our aim is to cover the cantons which are not. For example, Mr. Deputy, you can see that the Government is fully committed and mobilized to maintaining quality public services in the territories, including rural territories. We must rebuild after the abolition of many public services caused by the RMPP, the general review of public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u16	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u17	Minister, I would like to remind you that since the RPP, there has been a socialist government that has done a lot of damage in our territories. It should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u18	That's also true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u19	Mr. Dussopt doesn't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u20	Calm down! There used to be Sarkozy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u21	Madam Minister, Secretary of State, I want to talk to you about the Ardennes department, particularly the Meuse Valley. You came to this department a few months ago, for a decentralized council of ministers, but no minister deigned to travel in the Meuse Valley. The poverty rate is 19.4 per cent in the department, which also has an unemployment rate of 3 to 6 percentage points higher than the national average. The number of beneficiaries of active solidarity income reached 10,000 for just under 300,000 inhabitants. In addition to these indicators, there are also the closure of the Renwez and Nouzonville cash markets, job losses in the Voies navigable de France and at the Office national des forêts – which is not without a number of problems in a department where the Meuse flows and where a large part of the territory is covered by forest massifs – the closure of the Charleville-Mézières office of customs and indirect duties, the non-renewal of hundreds of contracts, the closing of SNCF counters in rural stations and the abolition of teaching posts. Minister, let me tell you that the situation in the Ardennes is difficult. You will reply that the Government has taken these difficulties into account in the framework of the Ardennes 2022 pact, but we all know that the appropriations announced are actually being redeployed, that they would in any case have been influenced within the framework of the DETR – the provision of equipment for rural territories – and the DSIL – the allocation of support for local investment. You have to be honest and stop telling our fellow citizens nonsense. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, what steps do you intend to take to ensure that the state is still present in the many territories of our country that still face great difficulties? We need the state in these departments. I believe in the state, and I ask you to take into account the objective difficulties of the Ardennes territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u22	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u23	Mr Cordier, you are asking me about the development of a number of public services in your department, the Ardennes, a territory with which, as you recalled, we recently concluded a territorial development pact – Mr Sébastien Lecornu, minister responsible for local and regional authorities, was present at your side for his signature. With regard to the evolution of all the public services in your department, I note that the total number of points of contact of La Poste – relays, offices and postal agencies – decreased by one unit between 2012 and 2018, from 110 to 109. This small difference is due to the closure of the office in Revin-Orzy, which closed in 2007, following the destruction of the tower that housed it, as part of an urban renovation operation, with no traders wishing to create a new post office.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u24	The question is not limited to La Poste!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u25	In addition, your department already has 19 service houses for the public, all EPCIs – institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – as well as almost half of the cantons being covered by at least one MSAP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u26	It's all right then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u27	And there will of course still be new ones. In addition, 30% of the Ardennes are less than five minutes away from an MSAP, and 87% are less than fifteen minutes away, indicating good coverage and good proximity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u28	It's not all that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u29	Mr Cordier, this does not, of course, prevent the Ardennes from experiencing difficulties. As far as the stations are concerned, none have been closed since 2012.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u30	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u31	In the area of infrastructure, the Charleville-Givet line is being modernised, which the State is supporting financially under the State-region plan contract, with the aim of restoring the 2007 journey times by 2022. In addition, the State envisages the possibility of reopening the Givet-Dinant line, a project strongly supported by local elected representatives and integrated into the Ardennes pact signed on 15 March. Beyond these points, I wanted to provide you with a number of additional information on access to public services in your territory: 97% of Ardennes live less than 15 minutes from a first level of services of primary health insurance funds; 99% of Ardennes live less than 15 minutes from a CIF reception point, the family allowance fund; 99% of Ardennes live less than 15 minutes from an employment office. Of course, this does not prevent the Ardennes department from experiencing other problems; I know them very well and we must of course also provide them with solutions. However, as far as public services are concerned, I wanted to answer you specifically on several points.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u32	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u33	In our rural areas, the issue of access to public services has been one of the triggers for the mobilization of yellow vests. This subject is clearly a matter of the strategic choices of a State which needs to be reformed but whose reform has too often been thought of in reverse of the interests of France of the territories. The initiatives of local and regional authorities, mainly those of the departmental councils, have been welcomed, some of which have been forerunners in setting up mechanisms to compensate for the withdrawal of public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u35	The Calvados has been covered since 2001 by some 30 Info 14 Points, which offer residents an interlocutor, a gateway to public services that were withdrawing. This model has been used to create the MSAPs, which are widely deployed in the national territory, and which now have 1300 in operation, as you pointed out, minister. The Court of Auditors, in its March 2019 report entitled "Access to public services in rural areas", noted too great a disparity in the level of services offered in these structures, and not only in postal MSAPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u36	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u37	There is clearly an issue with the means available to MSAPs to enable them to function. In order to allow for further reorganisations, the Court of Auditors suggests a financial contribution from the partners, who now rely free of charge on the MSAP network. The second subject that I would like to address, Madam Minister, concerns one of the palliations that the public authorities have developed extensively to reorganize their network of public services: the dematerialization of procedures. The observation is unanimous: this dematerialization has been implemented blindly, without anticipating or treating the obvious needs of support expressed by a significant and objectively growing part of the population. Thought to be able to compensate for the territorial withdrawal of public services, dematerialisation, because it is not correlated with the support of our citizens, is seen as an aggravating factor in the decline of public services. At the beginning of 2019, I tabled a bill to regulate the dematerialization procedures, in particular to oblige public actors to always leave the possibility of another way than that of absolute dematerialization. Madam Minister, why not study this bill, and even take it back to your own account? His deposit sounds like an alert to a system that will produce more difficulties than he was supposed to solve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u39	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u40	You are right to point out, Mr Leclerc, that the MSAPs are of different levels, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out and as I have indicated at the moment. That is why we have worked interdepartmentally for several months to define a minimum basket of services available in future France services houses. There is indeed a need for a minimum common basis for providing these services to our fellow citizens. We are also developing a commitment charter for quality of service with all MSAP partner administrations, which will include an evaluation grid for future labelling. The Government is therefore very aware of the importance of the subject you are addressing. Another important point is the strengthening of the versatility of MSAP officers, through training, so that they are able to guide and accompany users in their efforts. We have already started experiments in Orne, Lyon and Bethune. You mentioned the local authorities: I confirm that a France services house will be a space that will also accommodate those communities that wish to do so, because it will offer a basket of public services, not only those of the State but also those of the partner communities. In addition, as of this year, we are launching a quality audit to assess the service rendered, initiate the necessary improvements and thus achieve the labelling of existing structures. Those that do not meet the requirements will be accompanied to increase in range, which is absolutely indispensable. As you know, I went to many territories, and I myself was able to see the differences between MSAPs. That is why we have been working on this for several months with all the departments whose services are present in the MSAPs, as well as with the operators. I am sure that France services houses will perform very well throughout the country. Finally, I have noted your final proposal, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u41	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u42	The crisis we are going through highlights the deep suffering of the French. Beyond the social and economic divides, it is the territorial divide that is at stake because our fellow citizens feel that they do not receive the same consideration from the State, depending on where they live. The imbalances are very large between cities and major cities, on the one hand, and small towns and rural areas, on the other. The President of the Republic wants a new territorial pact: more officials on the ground, public service houses everywhere and no more overpressure from schools or hospitals. I understand the promise, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, but what are the financial, human and material resources, therefore real, that you will have to implement these objectives, on what terms and on what timetable? Your answer tonight is essential. A harmonious development of the territories in order to give everyone the same opportunities and the best living conditions requires a thorough assessment of the needs. Are you in favour, Madam Minister, of setting up a plan or plan of services for the people who are tailor-made, living pool by living pool? When there is no more commerce, no post office, no doctor, no means of transport, no gendarmerie brigade, no cultural or sports structures nearby and little internet access, we must rethink everything, but without ignoring what is happening in neighbouring territories. Are you prepared to provide better financial support to the towns-centres and medium-sized towns which, through their investments, structures and services, assume a central role and thus ensure the necessary influence throughout a territory? [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] What place will you give to mayors and presidents of intercommunality, as well as to the Members we are, in order to meet this challenge, what is indispensable for the future of our country? I would like to see the commitment that we will be involved, in each department, in the establishment of these new public service houses and that we will be able to participate in the emergence of these real communities of destiny that we must invent. I made a request this morning to the Prefect of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u43	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u44	Mr Perrut, you began by recalling the conclusions that could be drawn from the great debate, using two words to which I am particularly attached: "neighbourliness" and "consideration". I take them back to you, of course, to confirm that the President of the Republic has pledged that no decision to close a school or hospital will be taken without the mayor's consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u45	There won't be any!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u46	We'll see about it, Mr. Viala. As far as the deployment of France services houses is concerned, the President of the Republic has made a commitment that there will be at least one in each canton – as I have already said in reply to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u47	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u48	In the event that some Members have just arrived, I repeat that there will be no house suppression when there are already several houses in the canton. The President of the Republic also wanted to ensure that the maximum time to access services does not exceed 30 minutes, wherever one lives in the territory. This requires the opening of new houses in the uncovered territories as a matter of priority. We will therefore first support, among the many projects, those of the cantons that are in this situation. Thus, 200 houses can be created before the end of the year. We will launch, in mid-June, the first call for expressions of interest, built around the presidential objective of meshing the territory: one per canton for all projects ready. In addition, you asked me about the possibility of creating access schemes for public services at the level of living areas. As you know, the NOTRE law – dealing with the new territorial organization of the Republic – provided for the creation of departmental plans for access to public services. They are therefore within the competence of the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u49	These guys don't have any money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u50	To date, sixty have been achieved and the latest are in progress. It seems to me important to let this recent tool live in order to be able to observe its functioning before planning any improvements. In any case, we must not duplicate the action of the departments. Finally, I confirm to you this evening what I have already announced for several weeks in this Chamber: the creation of a policy towards the towns-centres, which act as centres of centrality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u51	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u52	The weeks we have just lived have shown how important it is for the inhabitants to have local public services. The President of the Republic himself deplored the fact that there are no longer enough people on the ground to bring about solutions. In order to address this problem, mutualised structures for access to public services have emerged, including the MSAPs. Because of the retraction of the networks and the closure of the counters accompanying the dematerialisation – two phenomena that are difficult to experience in rural and mountain France – the MSAPs offer support allowing users to access different services from a distance. According to a report by the Court of Auditors on the subject, published last March, "The first review of the functioning of these structures reveals significant margins of progress: their services are still heterogeneous and poorly known. MSAPs must increase their level of activity... and their awareness."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u54	The Court also recommended that MSAPs "take up the challenge of professionalizing their model. It requires the creation of a recognized profession as a multi-purpose public support agent." It concludes that "their financing is partly based on an inter-operator fund which has been in structural imbalance since its inception. » Last Thursday, the President of the Republic announced the creation in each canton, by the end of the quinquennium, of a place where we can find a solution to the problems, called "France services". How will France services houses differ from MSAPs? What means will these structures have, both to train the agents and to function? The Court of Auditors has pointed out that the financing of MSAPs is far from satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u55	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u56	Mr Rolland, I have already answered your question, but I will do it again, from an example. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I visited, a few days ago, an MSAP from the Haute-Saône, in Fretigney-et-Velloute. I saw how wonderful this structure was: they offer many services and its organization is very original. As a result, FPD is not present every day, but regularly visits on dates scheduled in advance, and, if users cannot travel, the FPD sends a representative to their home. Mr Pradie, your illness is always to interrupt the speaker! So some MSAPs are doing an excellent job, while others – I've noticed on the ground – are not at the level. Mr Perrut, if we are to set up France services houses, it is precisely to raise and equalise the level of all the structures, to increase the presence of services on the territory, especially there is no MSAP today, and to respond to the specificity of each territory, certain areas being hyper-rural, others suburban, others still difficult neighbourhoods, you know. We need to bring public services with intelligence as close as possible to the citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u57	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u58	More than a demand for proximity to public services, it is a need for administrative simplification that emerges from the French answers to the questions of the major debate on improvements to the functioning of the public service. For example, 86% of Internet consultation participants consider that there are too many administrative levels in France, while almost half of them ensure that they have already waived rights or allowances due to too complex administrative procedures. Among the important laws of the legislature that we have adopted is that for a state at the service of a society of trust, which is based on two pillars: the first, trust, establishes a right to error for everyone; the second, to make it simple, prioritizes the simplification of procedures and the limitation of regulatory zeal. The text thus proposes to facilitate the route of the user, with access to a single reference, so that he has to hit only one door. This unique reference will be responsible for the processing by the administrations concerned of requests from certain categories of users. In experiments for four years, this system is currently being tested in several local and regional authorities. The CAF also implements this unique reference system with rights appointments, which allow users to take stock of their employment, family benefits or health status. The objectives of this experiment are to combat the phenomenon of loss of rights, to prevent the risks associated with technological developments and to ensure that social categories are unbundled by giving everyone equal access to public services. Madam Minister, do you not believe that the decisions that followed the major debate encourage a generalization of the system by making it visible to all our fellow citizens, especially the most fragile of them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u59	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u60	Mrs Essayan, you have recalled that we are in a phase of experimenting with the function of single referent provided for in Article 29 of the Law for a State at the service of a society of trust. The single reference shall handle the requests addressed to it for all the services concerned. This text also indicates that the administration can reach him by any means within the agency or the branch on which he depends. The decree provided for in the law, adopted on 28 December 2018, specifies the role of the single referent who centralizes the requests of users, collects the documents necessary for their instruction and establishes the list of administrations that may participate in the scheme. The ambition of this measure is very simple, and you recalled it: to facilitate the relations of users with the administration by giving them the opportunity to address a unique and well-identified contact which ensures that their requests are examined by the competent services. It is therefore a matter of establishing a contract of trust, simplicity and efficiency between the user and the administration. The experiment started three months ago, but we weren't quite leaving anything since, before the passage of the law, several administrations and services had put in place similar systems, allowing users to knock on one door. First of all, we want to draw up a comprehensive and accurate overview of the existing system and draw on the good practices already in place in order to promote as effective a system as possible. Gérard Darmanin and I sent a letter to the prefects, to the public industrial and commercial establishments as well as to the central administrations in order to make known the unique references present in the various networks. These interlocutors can file their files on a simplified approach platform. This will enable us to determine the level of intervention and the pace of deployment of the appropriate unique focal points, so that they can be implemented in as pragmatic and intelligent a manner as possible. I repeat, this will be done through the dissemination of good practices already in progress. The experiment is expected to last four years. Because of the complexity of setting up the network, but also because of our desire for it to be as dense and effective as possible, it seems to us that this duration is both necessary and sufficient. However, we will go faster if we can, because we are convinced that the unique reference is a good way to simplify the lives of users. We want to succeed in this experiment, and we therefore prefer to take a few more months and succeed, rather than rush to the risk of failing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u61	Mr. Laurent Garcia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u62	The great national debate has highlighted the concerns of the French, among which appears, among the first places, the problem of the gradual disappearance of public services, or at least of their remoteness in many territories. Contributions show a demand for public services that are closer, more readable, more responsive to beneficiaries and accessible in all territories, particularly in the area of health services. As the Court of Auditors pointed out on 20 March, progress has certainly been made, in the medical field, with the law on the organisation and transformation of the health system, or in the school sector, with the reforms introduced by Minister Blanquer. However, difficulties remain. An accounting analysis that brings the public service back to the inhabitant neglects other criteria such as distance, demographic structure or the socio-professional category of users. Concerns about the closures of medical or school facilities are common. The case of white motherhood in the Berry is emblematic. To remedy such situations, the President of the Republic had announced, inter alia, that there would be no closure of hospitals or schools by the end of the quinquennium. However, as the budgets of many establishments are declining, the services they provide to our citizens are already of less apparent quality, and the agents suffer from overwork. Beyond the measures implemented or announced, how is it possible to ensure equal access to public services for all while meeting the requirements of rationalisation and cost-saving, without burdening local finances? For example, in my constituency, the IGAS report, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, highlighted personnel and funding problems for the CHRU – the regional and university hospital centre – in Nancy-Brabois. Institutions such as this one need means to renovate their infrastructure and accommodate patients under acceptable conditions. In short, they need the full support of their regional health agency. Minister, Secretary of State, can you clarify what the Government intends to do in practice to provide our fellow citizens with public services closer to them and more qualitative?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u63	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u64	Mr. Garcia, the Government fully understands your questions and the concern of some citizens about the future of public services, especially health services. We know the state of medical demography in France and we know that some territories are desperately short of general practitioners and specialists. With "my health 2022", the Government has chosen an ambitious new plan to reshape our health system and continue to ensure that everyone is close, that is to say, access to care, but also, as you have pointed out, their quality. The aim is to give doctors the desire to engage in the territories by promoting multi-professional exercise and task delegations to other health professionals, particularly for chronic diseases, and by allowing doctors to recover medical time through medical assistants. The aim is also to encourage advanced consultations of specialists from not only public hospitals but also the liberal sector, and to develop itinerant consultations. At the same time, we are in the process of reforming pricing in order to move from a system that promotes the proliferation of acts and activity to funding that encourages prevention, supports cooperation between healthcare professionals and reaffirms quality as the primary objective of care. In particular, with regard to the CHRU you have highlighted, the Greater East Regional Health Agency and the Ministry of Solidarity and Health will remain extremely vigilant. They are also appreciative of the institution's efforts to return to a sustainable financial trajectory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u65	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u66	From the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has expressed its willingness to accelerate the digital transformation of public services. Digital tools represent a major step forward in simplifying procedures and saving time for officers and administrators who have control over their use. However, we wish to draw the Government's attention to the fears of exclusion that they also create. The first finds its source in the digital divide, which risks causing a break in equality between our fellow citizens. Indeed, there is the problem of digital white areas, as a portion of the territory is not covered by satisfactory internet access. In addition, a significant proportion of the population has a total or partial lack of knowledge of digital tools. A quarter of the French suffer from "illectronism", which is an additional barrier for these people already in difficulty and isolates them even more. Beyond the digital divide, the fear of a gradual dehumanization of the relationship between the administration and the user is expressed. The question arises, indeed, of the place we want to give to humans with the physical presence of public officials. A click can never replace a direct relationship. Following the great debate, the President of the Republic indicated that he wanted to put the human at the centre of the project...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u67	"The human first! »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u68	...and bring the administration closer to the ground. In 2018, almost 94 per cent of complaints to the Defender of Rights raised a difficulty in the relationship between users and public services. They play an essential role in civic and social integration, so that their gradual remoteness gives many of our fellow citizens a sense of downgrading and relegation. If digital is beneficial when it comes to simplifying procedures, it is much less beneficial when it is only used to compensate for the removal of physical windows for budgetary reasons. In the face of the ongoing digital revolution, how does the Government intend to ensure equal access for every citizen to public services, and how does it intend to give physical presence in the relationship between the administration and its users that it wishes for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u69	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u70	Mrs Luquet, you were right to point out, in your question, that digital technology can represent an extraordinary opportunity for access to public services at the same time as creating a very high risk of dropping out, which can fuel a sense of relegation among users. We consider this to be an opportunity, since the development of dematerialised systems, applications and services offers users of the public service new possibilities, both in terms of connection schedules, of the place of connection – since it is possible from home – and of easy access to the daily environment. That is why we aim to dematerialize all public services of the State, or in any case to make them accessible in a dematerialized way, by 2022. Nevertheless, if making all public services accessible in a dematerialized way is a goal, it must not make forget, as you pointed out, that 13 million French are far from using digital tools. Some of them are far from it because of insufficient coverage. This is why the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations is working to improve it. I would like to point out that our objective is to cover the entire territory by 2020, with access to high-quality broadband, i.e. more than 8 megabits per second, and to pass the 30 megabits per second by 2020 in order to ensure satisfactory coverage. Another part of our compatriots suffer, as you said, from "illectronism", i.e. from difficulties of mastery of computer science, because of lack of habit and distance from this use in their daily lives. This demonstrates the need to maintain the human person – both in the services and in the reception – as well as accompaniment. This is the task of the State Secretariat for Digital Affairs: to ensure that the inclusiveness of digital is fully guaranteed, by the presence of accompanying persons and by the possibility of access to training, so that most of those who are now far from digital can be hung up and brought back to that use. We cannot dissociate dematerialization from the maintenance of human beings: we need human presence and proximity; we are making sure that we are developing and giving priority to digital access.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u71	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u72	I have three questions. The first door – you will see the link with our debate – on the numerus clausus. During the Easter weekend, exactly on April 21, 2019, your colleague in charge of health, the minister, signed the decree setting the evolution of the numerus clausus for 2019, offering 606 more places. That's very good. However, of these 606 additional places, 397, i.e. two thirds, concern Parisian hospitals. How can we imagine that only two thirds of the additional places created can be allocated to Parisian hospitals? By ricochet, this means that the doctors concerned, who will be trained in the Paris region, will not settle in Tarn-et-Garonne, in the Lot or...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u73	In Moselle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u74	...in other departments. Indeed, everyone knows that the proximity between the CHU – the university hospital –, that is, the place where one is studying, and the place where one can later settle is decisive. My second question concerns schools in rural areas, although this subject has already been discussed by a number of my colleagues. However, it would appear, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, that 1,000 classes have been closed. The President of the Republic has, of course, pledged not to close schools; It's very good, but I would have preferred it to be a little more specific about classes in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u75	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u76	My third question relates to the fact that all government communication – but it does not date back to your entry into power, as was the case before – is being conducted at the national level. However, the same measure can be applied very differently from one department to another, it is very important. You have certainly begun to distribute a number of maps. As early as 2014, we had passed an amendment that would allow us to know the amount of the allocations for each municipality, so that everyone could get an idea. Now, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, I would like you to indicate to us, department by department, the number of closed classes and the envelope of DETR.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u77	This is on our website.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u78	I also want you to communicate to us the number of DDFiP cash closures – the departmental branches of public finance. In conclusion, I would like you to give a number of ratios. For example, in the jurisdiction of DRAC – the Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs – of Occitanie, the per capita amount paid by the State is the lowest in Tarn-et-Garonne, with 7 euros and a few, compared to an average of 12 euros. From one department to another, there are differences in state support of up to 50%. I would like this data to be finally readable for everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u79	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u80	Madam President Rabault, you have asked three questions which, if they are quite different, all relate to public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u81	[[Smile]] Be nice to Mrs. Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u82	I reply first to the first one, which deals with the numerus clausus. To begin with, I believe that we can all welcome – and find ourselves around – the goal of abolishing the bill, which was adopted on the occasion of the first reading of the bill on the organization and transformation of the health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u83	I said it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u84	This will allow for the gradual training of more doctors and thus meet needs. Agnès Buzyn has chosen, in the latest texts she has published, to modulate the increase in places offered to new medical students according to the needs expressed. This is not a first, since the modulation of the allocation of open places for the increase of the numerus clausus was introduced for the first time in 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u85	Yes, but here, two thirds of the new places are for Parisian hospitals!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u86	I think you have in mind, like me, this progress, which has allowed the variation in the number of places offered to be modified according to the needs and also to the evolution of the positions and the demography of the profession. Your second question concerns schools. If I do not have at hand the number of classes that have been closed, I can, however, give you two elements of an answer. You know the first: our country is currently experiencing a demographic movement which results in a fairly steady decline in the number of students at different levels of the school cycle, which requires a number of adaptations, as has always been the case, by establishment and territory per territory. Since last Thursday's announcements, the novelty has been both in the renewed commitment to double classrooms, both in the QPVs – priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – and in a number of rural schools located in priority networks, and in the commitment to limit the number of students per class between the major kindergarten section and the EC1 to 24 students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u87	That was my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u88	This will also allow for a better distribution of the population in the Territory. Finally, through your last question, you asked for greater transparency on all aspects of the relationship between the state and the communities. This is already the case, in total, with regard to operating allocations. If, contrary to what you wish, we do not yet have a summary table for investment allocations, particularly for reasons of consolidation and allocation by departmental commissions, I am confident that we will be able to work on this point. It will also be up to us to ensure transparency on all the elements to get to the end of the application of the NOTRE law – you, like me, participated in its development – so that the open data can affect both the communities and the state, and thus the transparency that you call for of your wishes and whose objective we share also contributes to the relationship of trust between the state and the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u89	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u90	The President of the Republic included it in his announcements last week: he wants to create service houses for the public in all cantons. Such structures already exist: there are 1300, which means that the objective would be to open only 700 more. This ambition will obviously not be enough to meet the demands of our fellow citizens, particularly in rural areas and in certain suburbs. In reality, the former mayor I am tells you, the real public service house already exists: it is the town hall.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u92	There are nearly 36,000 in France. It would therefore be more appropriate to stop reducing the resources of the municipalities. However, 53% of them will see their DGF – overall operating allocation – decline. Moreover, it is the municipalities and intercommunalities that finance these places of reception mainly, while operators – such as Pôle Emploi, CAF, GRDF, Mutualité sociale agricole, la Poste or the health insurance funds –, who are concerned by a common inter-operator fund, are very reluctant, when they do not disengage. There is a clear contradiction between, on the one hand, advertisements and the display of a desire to bring public services closer to citizens, and, on the other hand, the reality of the figures. I take the example, in Gironde, of the family allowance fund, which continues to degrade the resources allocated to the reception of the public – further abolitions of posts are provided for in the agreement of objectives and management. While the population of the department, the number of contractors and the number of solicitors continues to increase, there is an increasing delay in the responses given, despite the exemplary commitment of staff and the overtime they perform. My question will be simple: beyond words and soporific projects, will commitments be made in order to sustain the presence of public services in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u93	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u94	Mr David, as you know – as you recalled – the President of the Republic announced the creation of what he called "France services houses". Of course, these structures are the extension of existing MSAPs; I would remind you that there are some 1340 of them, 85 % of which are located in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants, i.e. mainly in rural areas. Of course, we have studied the implementation of these 1340 MSAPs, and it turns out that they cover about 30% of the cantons. It is therefore obvious that such structures must continue to be created in all the cantons of our country. Having said that, I say and say again that when several MSAPs coexist within the same canton, they will naturally be maintained. It is not a question of closing them, but rather of opening new ones where they do not exist. There is also the question of the level of MSAPs: we are fully aware of the difference in quality of service between them. That is why I have been working for several months with all the ministries and operators concerned on a kind of charter, requiring the presence of a minimum of public services in each structure. Those who meet the requirements of this charter will be labeled "Maisons France services". You also talked about town halls. I agree with you that the first public service house is the town hall. Mayors have every opportunity to organise, within their own town halls – and this is often the case – with the presence of public services regularly holding permanent offices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u95	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u96	We have to give them the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u97	Mr Jumel, only the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u98	It is therefore with great enthusiasm that we will develop these new France services houses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u99	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u100	I have a lot of questions to ask, and I would like to get some answers about what the President of the Republic has said, particularly with regard to the reform of decentralization. What do you think about networking: new municipalities, old municipalities, historic communes, agglomeration communities, communities of municipalities, metropolises, SIVU, SIVOM – unions of municipalities with a single vocation or multiple vocation –, mixed unions, departments, regions? How do you want the citizen to do it? Do you think you can resist structures such as AMF, ADF or ARF, i.e. the Association of Mayors of France, the Assemblée des départements de France and the Association des régions de France? These are very clear questions, to which we have been waiting for answers for a long time. You know that the NOTRE law is a poison in this country, with its very large regions and cantons that do not correspond to intercommunalities or life pools. Everyone told you, starting with the rural mayors. Do you think you can, Madam Minister, make a difference? Public service houses have been in existence for a very long time as they have followed the public service relays. Do you think the state administrations will come to this? As far as deconcentration is concerned, if we have made regionalisation, we realize that we should have done departmentalization. What do you think you're doing with department prefects? Are you thinking about bringing Category A officials back into DDT – the departmental directorates of the territories – and perhaps transforming the RSAs – the regional health agencies – and the DREALs – the regional environmental, planning and housing directorates? Do you have the possibility? Finally, what can you say about the cumulation of the mandates of MPs and mayors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u101	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u102	Mr Morel - To the Hussier, as you know, the President of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u103	He's still here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u104	... at the beginning of his term, said he would not make any major territorial reform, at the request of local elected officials, who, after all the reforms carried out in the previous ten years – 2010, 2014, 2015, you know them – requested a break.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u105	He won't do much reform on any subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u106	I would also like to remind you, because I listened carefully to you, that on the day a certain government wanted to abolish the departments, it triggered a lifting of shields.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u107	Luckily.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u108	We agree! Should the regions now be abolished? I don't believe it; This subject is not relevant. It is amusing to note that it is always called upon to remove a level of territorial community, but that whenever any government wanted to do so, it caused a general bronca. For our part, we believe that we must work with the different levels of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u109	We've known you braver.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u110	Of course, if municipalities want to merge, it is possible for them, on a voluntary basis, to create a new municipality. In any event, we want to work with all the strata of existing territorial communities. [[Smile]] Secondly, we have long recognized that the NOTRE law contained a number of problematic points, which my colleague Sébastien Lecornu called "irritants". We're committed to coming back on it. To this end, we will start conversations, not in the Loir-et-Cher, but with the associations of elected officials, so as to know what are the irritants they want to see modified as a matter of priority. We therefore have the will to facilitate the functioning of local and regional authorities. Furthermore, as you know, the right to differentiation will be enshrined in the Constitution, which will provide flexibility for the administration of local and regional authorities. They will also have the opportunity to divide their legal powers differently if they agree to find this beneficial for a territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u111	And in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u112	Is this the Republic with variable geometry?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u113	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u114	The great debate has clearly taken place, the future of our public services is one of the main concerns of the French, and for reason: their disappearance often sounds the beginning of the end for cities and villages, which are therefore subject to the flight of their inhabitants, forced, for various reasons – age, dependency, employment, family – to leave territories where, however, they often like to live. To begin with, I would like to come back to a news that worries a lot: the closures at all times of our treasury. Are these concerns well-founded? Will this wave continue to grow? I would also like to mention, like previous speakers, the public service houses, the MSAPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u116	Having installed two of them in the Northern Department, I know how efficient they are. They should be generalised, and it seems to me that a substantial development of mobile MSAPs would be a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u117	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u118	The President of the Republic announced the installation of a France services house in each canton. We can only welcome this, but I wonder how these structures will relate to what already exists. And what about their funding and the sustainability of that of the MSAPs? Another emergency is to put people back in our public services – the Secretary of State has just mentioned it. While new technologies are a plus for rural areas, they cannot systematically replace agents. First, in reality, not everyone has access to a quality network that allows the use of online services. Secondly, there are still many people who do not know how to use the new technologies: between 10 million and 14 million in France. Finally, it is not uncommon that, in addition to the formalities carried out on-line, there is a need for personalized follow-up. This is where the lack of staff is felt. Thus, in my territory, CARSAT – occupational health and pension insurance funds – are becoming increasingly difficult to reach by telephone due to a lack of staff. We therefore hope that, in the context of the announced reform of the administration, the reduction in the number of central civil servants and the increase in the number of civil servants in our territories will soon be confirmed. Finally, elected officials are often the last to be informed of public service closures. Can we hope for a better dialogue in the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u119	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u120	Mr Bricout, you are asking me, among other things, about the financing of public service houses. I would like to recall that the funding of the current MSAPs is provided at parity by the National Fund for Spatial Planning and Development, the FNADT, which is managed by my Ministry, and the inter-operator fund financed by the contributions of the operators and ministries engaged in the MSAPs. In the Finance Act for 2019, the Government has increased funding for MSAPs to 15.7 million euros, an increase of 47 per cent, reflecting our support for this essential mechanism. These financings allow each holder of a labeled house – today MSAP, tomorrow home services France – to...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u121	Isn't this Maison France services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u122	... to receive a flat-rate subsidy. To date, the average amount of this allocation is €25,000 for a community-based MSAP and €32,000 for a postal MSAP. Tomorrow, with the France services houses,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u123	You should know! Is it France services or France services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u124	... this allocation will be a flat-rate annual amount of 30000 euros, regardless of the holder. I know that funding difficulties may have occurred in some places in 2018. That is why I have asked that, when project promoters have not received the share of the inter-operator fund due to them, a supplement be paid to them as soon as possible. That will be done very soon. The financing of the measures announced by the President of the Republic, i.e. the creation, within the next six months, of new houses, is already assured. The deployment of these new services will naturally have to be taken into account in the next FLP. I didn't hear correctly, but I was blown that you also mentioned mobile MSAPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u125	Itinerary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u126	That's right. There are currently 126. They are adapted to certain territories. They are effective and are not intended to be deleted. On the contrary, they will be supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u127	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u128	One maternity and one post office out of two closed for twenty years, one school closed every day for ten years: blind profitability forgets that local public services save lives and ensure equality between citizens. On February 18, 2019, the parents of the little Aimé, who died in utero during the transfer of his mother to the motherhood of Montélimar, learned this at their expense: just over a year earlier, the maternity services of the hospital of Die had closed. Last Thursday, Emmanuel Macron pretended to have understood. Of course, it has not announced the development of public services, but the end of closures of essential public services. This is already true, but we have the experience of two years of duplicity and lies, and the President has arranged to make this commitment impossible by three scams. First scam: you intend to remove 120,000 civil servants. Emmanuel Macron dares to announce classes of twenty-four students, while 10000 teachers are missing to apply this measure. And of course, in order for the lack of consistency to continue to stifle you, Minister Blanquer has already declared that class closures will continue. You're going to maintain the public services, but you're going to empty them from any human presence. Second scam: budget cuts hit the public services still in place hard. This is evidenced by the multiple and continuous strikes in hospital emergencies, with the working environment of the agents turning into mid-age moorings. You say you don't close hospitals anymore, but you disgust the officials of their profession by contemptating them, in order to leave the field open to private clinics. Third scam: Public services may not close, but this does not mean that they will remain truly open. Let us take the example of Pôle emploi in my constituency: the unemployed can only go there without an appointment between eight thirty and twelve thirty hours. The agencies remain in the territory, that's right; You keep the buildings, but you close the doors. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary of State, was the presidential commitment merely a demagogic flan without tomorrow, or do you have a secret plan, capable of guaranteeing your promises, to present to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u129	That's really very fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u130	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u131	Mrs Panot, I would like to say a few words about the substance of your question. The Government is well aware that over the past 20 years, public services have declined. Valérie Rabault mentioned it earlier: perceptions closed – 1200 in ten years, out of a total of 3700. Demographic movements, as well as sometimes downsizing, have led, here or there, to class closures more than schools – to hear you, it would be almost 4000 schools that would have been closed, which of course is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u132	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u133	Second, some services may encounter operational difficulties. I am thinking in particular of the health sector. We all know that a number of medical services – again, I am not talking about establishments but about services – may be closed down, because they fail to recruit a particular specialist.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u134	That's completely wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u135	We are primarily concerned, like previous governments, with the safety of patients and patients. [[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] The President of the Republic has made a number of commitments, including that of not closing a hospital or school without the mayor's consent. Perhaps you should congratulate yourself. Instead, when you asked your question, Madam Member, you did something very unpleasant, not to say innumerable. You have instrumentalized the drama experienced by a family while using insulting and caricatural words against the President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u136	All I did was resume the father's analysis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u137	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] I do not think it is to the honour of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u138	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u139	Last Wednesday, I visited the nephrology department and the emergency department of the CHU of Saint-Pierre, in La Réunion. I was able to see that the conditions of care were deplorable, both for the patients and for the staff. In a report on the situation of the CHU de La Réunion, which the Regional Court of Auditors gave a few days ago, it is written: "For patients, care routes are complex on scattered sites, the premises being poorly adapted and unattractive". The budgetary austerity of the CHU hurts all hospitals in the territory, despite the dedication of the staff. These savings are to the detriment of public health. Yet there is a way to solve part of the problem. Indeed, for the past ten years, the department of La Réunion has been the only one where the geographical coefficient has no longer been recalibrated. Thus, as part of the mission of general interest and the aid for contracting, for 2017, our allocation was 96 euros per capita compared to 103 euros in Martinique and 177 euros in French Guiana – to mention only those two territories. As a result, we, Réunionnais, have lost tens of millions of euros in profits. My question is simple: are you ready to put an end to this discrimination, by revising the geographical coefficient of La Réunion as appropriate? I come to another subject: on our island, the dengue epidemic is accelerating, with more than 14,000 cases and 13 deaths already recorded. For months, I have been asking the Government about this health crisis. Your response was the dispatch of fifty civil protection personnel to conduct demoustication operations. However, since their arrival, dengue fever has increased: there are now 1000 additional cases per week. Worse, product sprays damage our ecosystem, killing bees, fish, etc. A real scandal! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] I repeat here before this House: it is urgent to return to the mechanical device and to strengthen it by unlocking aided contracts, since they have already proved their effectiveness in the fight against vector diseases in the past. Will you finally take into account the seriousness of the situation, recognize your responsibility for the progression of the disease and act accordingly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u140	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u141	Mr Ratenon, in your speech you mentioned the health situation with regard to dengue fever, which has been the subject of tension since the beginning of the year. I would like to assure you that, if there is an increase in the number of cases reported, the situation is closely monitored by the prefecture of La Réunion and the Indian Ocean SAR.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u142	Badly followed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u143	In response to your question, which deals with an essential public health issue, I would like to point out that dengue is a disease that can actually evolve into severe forms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u144	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u145	Therefore, you should consult your doctor immediately in case of symptoms and protect yourself from mosquito bites using repellents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u146	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u147	In this epidemic context, the active participation of Réunionnais in the implementation of preventive measures is essential if the spread of the virus is to be limited. In case of suspicion of dengue, or confirmation after analysis, it is important to continue to protect against mosquito bites so as not to pass the disease on to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u148	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u149	That's the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u150	The Government has anticipated this second epidemic wave by strengthening the human and material means of vector control, as well as the means of guidance and diagnosis for doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u151	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u152	A national reinforcement mechanism has been activated to strengthen the teams with civilian security personnel. To facilitate treatment in the city, about 100 volunteer general practitioners were provided with rapid dengue diagnostic tests. These tests, financed by the health insurance fund, can be carried out directly by the treating doctors in their offices, with a result obtained immediately. These results are transmitted in real time to the SRA, which can then mobilize vector control teams in neighbourhoods where one or more dengue cases have been reported. Voluntary physicians were also provided with RSA-funded vials of repellent products to be handed over to patients for whom dengue diagnosis was confirmed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u153	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u154	You also mentioned, Mr President, the geographical coefficient. This is the coefficient which, applicable to the tariffs of health facilities, takes into account the cost of living in certain territories, such as island territories. This allows institutions to meet the additional costs. Recurring criticisms are emerging about these coefficients, and their recent update has not changed the one applicable to La Réunion, the highest in France, at 31% – by comparison, the rate applicable in Guadeloupe and Martinique is 29%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u155	Thank you for closing, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u156	The Minister of Solidarity and Health, Agnès Buzyn, and I are very attentive to the question of the financing of our health facilities, throughout the French territory, including in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u157	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u158	The President of the Republic has just drawn the conclusions of the great debate, allegedly to respond to the movement of yellow vests. Three-quarters of French people are disappointed by these announcements, and even angry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u159	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u160	The issue of public services has very often returned to this debate, particularly in non-metropolitan territories, where the accumulation of closures has fueled this sense of abandonment so often put forward. The President of the Republic proposes the establishment of France services houses, i.e. service houses for the public. But the territories have not waited to organize themselves, and many structures are already functioning, especially in the Allier. If we are not opposed to these structures as a matter of principle, they should be linked with the players in the territory and not put everything on the digital level. A public service house per canton is by definition a technocratic response, the cantons having been completely denatured during the last redistribution. The relevant level is that of intercommunalities, which should set up the guidelines of the departmental schemes in close connection with the communes, to which the French remain, as we, particularly attached. It is urgent to reactivate these schemes under the auspices of the prefects and chairmen of departmental councils. It is only through a spatial planning approach that it is advisable to think of places that are shared and have sufficient skills. For these places to be useful to people and not dehumanized, it takes means. We are therefore concerned that, at the same time, the President of the Republic is announcing a tax reduction of 5 billion, which could be financed by a reduction in public expenditure. I see a strong contradiction here. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] What organization and means do you intend to propose, Madam Minister, to meet the needs of the territories in terms of public services? In the meantime, are you ready to propose a moratorium on all ongoing or planned closures?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u161	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u162	You will recognize with me, Mr. Dufrègne, the situation we are in did not arise a few months ago or, to be clear, at the beginning of this Parliament. This was a long deterioration in the presence of public services on French territory; At least we can agree on that. This obviously requires catching-up. You mentioned the initiatives of local and regional authorities: they are real and welcome, and the creation of France services houses is not contradictory, of course, with these initiatives. I will say even more: France services houses will be able to welcome services or operators of the State as well as local authorities, if they so wish. Only the result, that is, the presence of public services as close as possible to our citizens, which must not have more than 30 minutes to travel to access it, as the President of the Republic has said. However, 85% of the existing MSAPs are located in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants. The President of the Republic spoke of at least one France services house per canton. You are talking about the level of the communities of communes. All this must be done in the greatest territorial intelligence, in connection with the elected representatives and, of course, with the Prefect, who will be charged, from a deconcentrated perspective, with bringing back the proposals made on the territories. Effectiveness requires tolerance and common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u163	What about the moratorium? You'll tell us by answering my colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u164	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u165	In Grand Bourgtheroule, the first reply made by President Macron to my boyfriend, the mayor of Valognes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u166	To your friend, rather!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u167	...or to my comrade, was the closure of Bernay's maternity. Forced and forced by the mobilization of yellow vests, the pressure of the social movement and the disapproval of the French, the President of the Republic concludes the debate by announcing that no maternity will be closed – after having closed three in the last sequence – nor any school without the agreement of the mayors. This President La Palice only recalls the law, which requires that any closure of establishments be made subject to the agreement of the competent authorities. [["Yes! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] But the next day, as soon as the Elysean word was spoken and the microphones turned off, the officials of the rue de Grenelle told us that classes will continue to be closed, that the rule of calculation will continue to apply. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] "Yes! Say the walkers with one voice, enthusiastic, convinced that they are the need to move our classes currently open in rural areas, and the instructions given by DASEN – the academic directors of the national education services – to close the intercommunal pedagogical groups of less than three classes! That is the reality of the situation. [[Same movements]] In short, you are smoking the French on local public services. In my constituency, I am working to bring together rural schools. Minister, on May 3, I invite you to Sauchay, where we will defend the rural school in my constituency. Very concrete questions arise. How many teaching posts are you going to create in the law of amending finance? How many additional places do you open for the contest now? According to trade unions, 10,000 posts are now needed to translate presidential speech into action. Are you preparing a measure in the law of amending finance? At the conclusion of the government seminar that took place this afternoon, we did not hear anything about it. Why wait for 2020, if there is a social emergency? I insist: you are talking about creating a public service house per canton, while talking about territorial councillors, whose creation would mean the abolition of the cantons! In short, you are in the characterized smoke, you are preparing the organized move of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u168	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u169	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The abolition of 120,000 civil servants will complete this work by specifying your intentions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u170	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u171	Mr Jumel, at his press conference, the President of the Republic stressed that education is a fundamental investment for the future of our country. As a vector of collective progress, the school is also an essential lever for the future of our youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u172	Another truth from La Palice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u173	As you pointed out in your question, the announcements of the President of the Republic are strong: there will no longer be a school closure without the mayor's consent;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u174	That's the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u175	... after the doubling of the large section classes of kindergarten located in the priority education network – REP and REP + – as you know, by the end of the quinquennium, all the major section classes, CP and CE1 will be split, including out of priority education. These strong measures are part of the priority given, since the beginning of the quinquennium, to primary school as well as to the learning of what is agreed to be called "basic knowledge" by all students. As far as class closures are concerned, approximately 50,000 primary schools are deployed throughout France, of which 17500 are in rural areas. Between 2014 and 2018, openings and closings led to a decrease of about 2000 schools. The Minister of National Education and Youth asked the rectors and DASEN to re-examine the case of each of the closures. From the next school year until the end of the quinquennium, no school closure will take place, I repeat, without the mayor's consent. However, some closures will remain possible, of course. You know, as I do, Mr. Jumel, the demographic decline can be very significant, and hence the number of students. Local solutions must then be found. I recently visited Haute-Saône – I already spoke about this trip earlier – where the mayors took the lead in reorganizing primary schools throughout the country and creating educational hubs with the support of the department. Such a solution is often a close response. It also guarantees the quality of teaching, even though I am one of those who think that the coexistence of several levels in the same class is not necessarily a tragedy – this is only a personal opinion, but I think we are getting quite good results. The doubling of the main sections in REP and REP+ will begin in the new school year 2020 and will benefit about 150,000 pupils. This will result in the creation of an additional 6,000 classes. For classes with twenty-four pupils in all major sections, CP and CE1 out of priority education, the measure will be spread over three years, from 2020 to 2022, with a priority launch in the major sections and the CPs and CE1 which host the highest number of pupils, greater than twenty-four. This staff cap is expected to result in the creation of an additional 3,000 to 5,000 classes. The Government is, of course, very committed, Mr. Member, to primary education throughout the country; To do so, it will give every opportunity to children, whether they live in urban or rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u176	I invite you, Madam Minister, to respect your speaking time, failing which we will not be able to meet the deadlines set for the two debates scheduled for this evening. Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u177	We have often had the opportunity in this House to talk about territorial divides. Like other members of my group, I have alerted about the harmful effects of cascade closures of public services or state establishments: gendarmerie, hospitals, courts, treasury or schools. In this regard, we have heard the announcement by the President of the Republic of a moratorium on the closure of schools and hospitals. Very well, but what about class closures or some hospital services such as maternity wards? The Liberties and Territories Group therefore reiterates its proposal for a moratorium on the closure of all public services. This solution, obviously temporary, aims only to stop the haemorrhage, the time to rethink the place of public services in our territories. Our reflection extends to the digitisation of procedures, which is a privileged tool for simplifying procedures for the majority of users and a source of optimisation of public resources. But many flats, in my view, must be brought in. Some reforms, such as the dematerialization of the issuance of titles, such as driver's licenses or grey cards, have caused significant malfunctions. More broadly, dematerialization raises the question of equitable access to public services and services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u178	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u179	Indeed, "illectronism" primarily affects isolated and disadvantaged people. The rate of non-use of certain benefits is indicative of unequal access to social rights, particularly as a result of the dematerialization of procedures. The human rights defender's report, last January, made it perfectly clear. My question is simple. What mechanisms does the Government intend to put in place to provide concrete support to our fellow citizens in carrying out their activities throughout the territory? Will you rely on the MSAPs, which already exist in numbers, as is the case in my department, Mayenne?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u180	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u181	In concrete terms, how can civil servants be put back on the ground, as the President of the Republic committed himself to doing? Madam Minister, you also did not reply to my colleague Morel-À-L'Huissier about a possible questioning of the non-accumulation of the mandates of MP and mayor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u182	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u183	With regard to the commitment made by the President of the Republic that no more hospitals or schools will be closed without the mayor's consent, you call for the veto of elected municipal officials to apply to classes and hospital services. With regard to classes, I would like to remind you that while the general population is declining, on the other hand, territory by territory and school per school, demographic changes can be very important. We cannot, at this stage, impose a moratorium on classes, since we know that in a municipality we can find ourselves with schools of two or three classes with four or five children per class, which would make little sense. For this reason, the President of the Republic undertook to limit the number of pupils per class from the large kindergarten section to the EC1, i.e. during the years of basic learning, to twenty-four, so that a class closure would not result in a concentration of too many pupils in the remaining class. In the case of hospital services, the answer is the same but for different reasons. When some institutions suffer from a lack of recruitment of practitioners, such as obstetricians in maternity, the closure of the service is motivated not by a financial consideration but by the safety of the patients: we cannot leave a service open if we do not have the guarantee that the health security is ensured there. Sometimes, however, we know that this is not the case. Finally, with regard to the digital dematerialisation of services, I have already had the opportunity to reply to Mrs Luquet: we want all the services of the State to be accessible by dematerialised means by 2022, because this is a great opportunity. We have in mind that 13 million French people have difficulties accessing the Internet. The first reason is the lack of coverage, which the Government's very high-speed France plan for 2020-2022 aims to fill. The second reason is "illectronism", to use the term that is required in the public debate; In this regard, we want to build on communities, government departments and the MSAPs, that is to say, all the actors able to offer mediation, in accordance with the mission assigned to us by Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Affairs: to ensure that the human person accompanies the development of digital technology.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u184	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u185	Last Thursday, the President of the Republic referred to a house that would be called France services, bringing together, in each canton, State services, local authorities and operators. This invention seemed to me to be very much like service houses to the public, which I helped revive between 2014 and 2016. There are now 1300. They offer users services and support, both physical and personalized, I want to do so, especially for fragile audiences. MSAPs are linking factors, and users plebiscite them because they can talk physically with a person and not just in a dematerialized way. A first remark: our fellow citizens have become familiar with the acronym MSAP. I therefore do not think it desirable to change the name once again, unless you wish to make this new name a communication instrument.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u187	The President of the Republic's ambition is to achieve a little more than 2000 France services houses throughout the country, which means consolidating this model and improving the services rendered. Until last Thursday, however, the Government had decided to suspend the openings of MSAP, in particular for lack of funding. Is that to say that new appropriations will be made available to increase the participation of the State and to sustain it? Are you going to propose a new pact with the operators? If so, on what basis? Indeed, the MSAPs that operate are those that offer a comprehensive package of services. Moreover, how do you intend to improve the training of staff working in the MSAPs, since the animation of these houses is one of the conditions for their success? What is the status of the planned partnership with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations? These questions are specific. Responses will depend on the success of these public service houses, which are essential for ensuring proximity and providing practical assistance to citizens in the territories, including rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u188	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u189	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u190	I would like to join you in considering the usefulness of the MSAPs in the territories: they have been created to compensate for the disappearance of public services over the years. You yourself said that it is possible to improve the basket – or rather the bouquet, the word is more beautiful – of the services offered by an MSAP. Operators are present in some and not all MSAPs. The Court of Auditors has also stressed the difference in the quality of services provided in the MSAPs, also referred to by various speakers. That is why we want to ensure, in all the MSAPs, a minimum set of services, allowing them to be labeled as France services. Perhaps the French know the name MSAP very well. However, I am very dubious about the acronyms, many of which are not well known to the French. We want to develop services across the territories. As I have repeatedly reminded you this evening, there will be no closure. What we want is to improve the quality of structures that do not provide all essential services. On the financial side, as you know, the FNADT depends on the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion. We must also not forget the inter-operator fund. Finally, we are currently negotiating with the Bank of the Territories to develop future MSAPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u191	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u192	In his speech, the President of the Republic stated that he wanted to "distribute public service everywhere": we can only congratulate ourselves on this objective, which, I hope, will irrigate all public policies. I would like to ask you four questions in order to better understand this redeployment of public services and the strengthening of the presence of civil servants throughout the territories. Will this transfer of posts of officials from the central administrations to the territories include the relocation of certain central directorates from Île-de-France, most often, to the territories, in the image of ADEME – the Agency for the Environment and Energy Control – whose head office has left Paris for Angers? Is work being undertaken to reduce duplication between State and community services in order to refocus the State on its sovereign missions and to place operational functions under the authority of local and regional authorities? Will we witness in this same movement a redeployment towards the peripheral territories of the deconcentrated directorates – DIRECCTE, DRAC, DREAL –, now mostly located in the metropolises? Finally, what indicators and measurement tools have you planned to put in place to track this movement? The number of civil servants per department? The number of civil servants by size of communes?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u193	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u194	Mr President of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, you have mentioned several subjects relating to our commitment to redeploy civil servants to rural and peri-urban areas, in order to avoid their concentration in the Paris region or regional metropolises. Before doing so, consideration should be given, wherever possible, to the elimination of duplication between government-run and community-run services in respect of skills that would benefit from sharing in order to be exercised in a clearer manner. As soon as this morning, Gérald Darmanin and I have asked all of our colleagues to examine, in each ministry, the departments or directorates responsible for the investigation of cases, which are not intended to receive from the public from the territory where they are located today, in order to move them to rural or peri-urban areas. We are convinced that the economic impact of the displacement of forty or fifty administrative jobs, located in cities such as Paris, Lyon or Bordeaux, in rural or peri-urban areas, is highly measured for the metropolis concerned, while it may be important for the small town that would host them. This redeployment will take place on a voluntary basis: public officials will volunteer to join these territories. Since the beginning of 2019, with Gérald Darmanin, we have signed several decrees increasing the accompanying devices. In particular, we have doubled the ceiling on the service restructuring premium, which compensates for the relocations of staff who accept geographical mobility. Similarly, Title IV of the Public Service Transformation Bill, which I will have the honour, at the end of the week, to present before the Law Commission, provides mobility tools. Finally, we need to ask ourselves how students leaving State civil service schools, who are usually appointed in the Paris region or in a major metropolis, can be assigned. Perhaps we should appoint them, for their first assignment, in rural or peri-urban areas, especially since, given the price of real estate, the young officials who graduated would win in terms of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u195	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u196	While our territories suffer from a policy that has led, for many years, to limit the number of doctors through the introduction of a numerus clausus, many of us on these benches welcome the Government's decision to put an end to it. This will, I hope, put an end to the injustice suffered by many of our fellow citizens, particularly in my constituency: no longer have a doctor. I would like to recall that there is 1 general practitioner per 1500 inhabitants in the Eure, whereas the national average is 1 per 1100 inhabitants. However, the end of the numerus clausus will not be synonymous with a spontaneous generation of general practitioners: it will take a decade to see the results of our policy appear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u197	And it won't be enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u198	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and LR groups]] In addition, the networking of rural areas in high-speed and very high-speed networks will, in any case technically, allow our fellow citizens located in a "medical desert" area to access telemedicine services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u199	They'll be treated by robots!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u200	This technology is expected to address the shortage of doctors in the underserved territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u201	Definitely, you didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u202	However, it seems that the management of these teleconsultations – I insist on this point – is only possible on condition that the patients have already met physically with the doctor providing the teleconsultation. Can you explain to us how the arrival of telemedicine can solve the problem of medical deserts in a department like mine, when doctors refuse to take new patients? Do we not risk seeing telemedicine platforms appear, with doctors located across France, offering patients in need of help not to be able to consult in close proximity, services that are not reimbursed but offer a very high degree of flexibility and responsiveness?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u203	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u204	You recalled what we are all seeing, in terms of medical demography, in our country. While telemedicine is an important lever for improving access to care, it cannot, of course, replace the human presence of doctors in the territories. However, the use of information and communication technologies allows for remote patient care. The plan for equal access to care presented at the beginning of the quinquennium in October 2017 demonstrated the Government's strong desire to deploy telemedicine. Since 15 September 2018, teleconsultations have been covered by the health insurance for all social insurance providers. With a view to ensuring the quality of care provided, the Minister of Solidarity and Health hoped that such care would be possible only in the event of a teleconsultation carried out by video transmission. The amendment 6 to the national convention organising the relations between liberal doctors and health insurance, concluded on 14 June, makes the care of the patient subject to respect of the coordinated care path – guidance by the attending physician and face-to-face consultation within the 12 months preceding the teleconsultation. Finally, article 13 of the draft law on the organization and transformation of access to care must enable patients to be cared for remotely by pharmacists who are medical assistants, through the creation of telecare. This measure meets the objectives of improving access to care and digital transformation set out in the "My Health 2022" strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u205	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u206	Our fellow citizens have made this clear: they expect a public service of closeness, of a human dimension, helping, accompanying them in their efforts, advising them, guiding them and being a factor of simplicity. It takes places close to home and easily accessible, with suitable schedules and people able to answer a wide variety of questions. The President of the Republic took full account of this expectation and announced the creation of the multi-purpose public service branches of France service in each canton. Can you explain how local realities will be taken into account?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u207	Indiscreet question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u208	In my constituency, whether it is the cantons of Templeuve, Orchies or Annœulin, there are different intercommunalities: how will the public services of the State be linked with several intercommunalities? How will local elected representatives be involved in the reflection on the organisation of these services? Finally, how will the working conditions and the quality of working life of public servants be taken into account, as a means of providing the necessary performance for the quality of our public services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u209	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u210	Jacqueline Gourault had the opportunity to respond several times about the establishment of service houses to the public, qualified and offering a larger range of services. In this process, it is important to exercise pragmatism. As you said, some cantons may indeed be covered by several intercommunalities. Similarly, there are sometimes already several public service houses in the same canton or in the same intercommunality. It is therefore necessary to know, when there are service houses for the public, to take into account both the existing and the involvement of the elected representatives, and to accompany the projects. We will not adopt an arithmetical reading of the target of more than 2,000 service houses to the public. There are more than 2000 cantons, and if there are more than 2000 of these houses, it will be very good for all our fellow citizens. In the second part of your question, you mentioned the consideration of psychosocial risks at work, the quality of life at work, and finally the issue of occupational medicine and health for public servants. This is a very important subject and, in this respect, public employers on all three sides are not at the level they might expect. We are not exemplary in terms of prevention, medical support and access to regular medical visits for public officials; time can go on to the point that many public servants and public officials, both incumbents and contractors, do not even remember their last medical visit. Mrs Lecocq, with Prime Minister and Gérald Darmanin, I have had the opportunity to ask you, in the continuity of your work on occupational medicine in the private sector, to work on occupational medicine in the public sector. We expect from your report proposals for psycho-social risk analysis, reform of medical authorities and improvement of the effectiveness of the health system in the public service. As part of our review of the Public Service Transformation Project, we will make an application to legislate by order in order to move forward with the consultation that will follow the submission of your report on this subject. This is an important subject, and the whole House will be able to agree on the need to better accompany and protect our agents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u211	Mrs Monica Michel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u212	My question concerns territorial access to care, at the time when the health bill, adopted at first reading by the National Assembly, is now being considered by the Senate. The fight against medical desertification is a major concern of the French and an objective that we all share. We are only too familiar with the health challenges facing us, particularly those related to demographic changes and the development of chronic diseases, but also those related to the urgency of ensuring equal access to care for people, regardless of their place of residence. The Government therefore wishes to promote the development of the territorialization of the organization of care and the reorganization of the hospital supply, in particular through the labelling of community hospitals. It has certainly taken note of the problem, using incentive tools to combat medical desertification, such as accompanying the implementation of the public service contract or the medical facility assistance contract, setting by decree a premium of EUR 200 per month for interns carrying out an outpatient internship in a sub-dense area, reimbursing the teleconsultation or setting up a single information and guidance window for health professionals. However, there is some doubt that incentives are sufficient. This is all the more worrying because the removal of the numerus clausus – which I welcome as a major step forward – will unfortunately not allow, in the short term, the need to find a real tool for regulating the installation of doctors in the sparsely populated territories. My question is therefore: should the strategy adopted by the Government not use more coercive means, such as testing an obligation for young doctors to practice in under-funded areas at the beginning of their careers? This is a proposal from the Association des petits villes de France. Do you think, on the contrary, that it is necessary to leave it to the actors and local authorities to organise themselves in this field?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u213	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u214	As health is at the heart of the social contract, it is important for the State to put in place strong regulatory tools to ensure effective networking of the territory and to combat medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u215	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u216	Mrs Michel, thank you for your question. We are all convinced, of course, of the need to pursue a dynamic and vigorous policy in response to the anxiety and dismay of those who do not find a doctor or more. As I have already said, with the "My Health 2022" plan, the Government has chosen a policy based on the mobilization of health professionals. You are referring to the possibility of a binding policy for the installation of young doctors. As you certainly know, France does not have enough medical demographics to imagine that doctors can be moved or encouraged to move from one area to another. The problem is that there are no more over-density zones in France. There is obviously a need to find a number of measures to encourage young people to study medicine. One such incentive would be for the Government to award scholarships to certain doctors during their studies, subject to an obligation for them to go to work in subdenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u217	As in normal schools fifty years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u218	Everything and its opposite! It's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u219	It's not the opposite: it's a financial accompaniment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u220	Thirty seconds ago, you said you didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u221	Mr. Pradie, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u222	... having the dual advantage of proposing to young people who, because of the length of medical studies, would not have had the material opportunity to pursue them, a grant allowing them to do so and, moreover, to meet the needs of the subdenses. This is in addition to all the measures we have already mentioned in the previous replies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u223	Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u224	Minister, Secretary of State, as you often point out – and thank you – we can be proud of our territories. Like you, I am proud of my territory and of the Liberian elected officials who administer it. Recognized for its dynamism, the department of Maine-et-Loire is one of those that saw the largest number of municipal mergers in the 2000s. These mergers have provided services tailored to the needs of users, services that they did not previously have, structuring and innovative. I would like to pay tribute to two of the many unprecedented actions that have taken place in my constituency this evening. On the one hand, the elected representatives of the new town of Lys-Haut-Layon made the ambitious choice to deconcentrate in each of the nine historic town halls the service house to the public. This initiative offers users a new mix of community services and keeps the delegated town halls open. On the other hand, the elected representatives of the city of Saumur opened a one-stop shop for families in 2016. This service centralizes all the benefits to which the families of Saumuro can have access: early childhood, schooling, sport, art school, youth. More than 70% of the families in the municipality use this service. Unanimously welcomed, this one-stop-shop project has been taken over by other communities. All too often, however, elected officials face many obstacles: complexity of administrative procedures, lack of resources and centralizing zeal. Too many projects do not succeed and many elected officials end up discouraged. To ensure the cohesion of the territories, our role as elected representatives is to encourage innovative projects, to believe in them, to support them and to let the common sense of the ground speak. As a follow-up to the announcements by the President of the Republic, what additional levers does the Government intend to give to local elected officials?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u225	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u226	Mrs Saint-Paul, you recalled the dynamism of Maine-et-Loire and the creation of many new communes in this department, which also led to a reduction in the number of intercommunalities. This department has become famous throughout France, with La Manche, for the originality of the creation of many new communes. Of course, the Government is always ready to support innovative projects, and, of course, we have tools to do this: the DETR, a very important investment allocation, you know, as well as the allocation of support for local investment, which is also very important, because it has increased sharply in recent years in all departments. All in all, as you know, the appropriations for the national territory amount to EUR 2 billion. Of course, we are also very attentive to this within the framework of the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, whose creation, in the absence of agreement in the CMP, will soon come under discussion in the National Assembly. This agency will also be a tool, as you know, to support innovative projects across all territories, especially in inter-communities or departments that do not have sufficiently developed public engineering. We will be there, with the ANCT, to support innovative projects, particularly in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u227	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u228	In 2017, according to a study by FIFG – the French Institute of Public Opinion – 92% of French people felt that community-based public services were useful to them on a daily basis and contributed to their quality of life. However, according to the latest figures from INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – one out of twenty municipalities no longer have a public service, and government policy only accentuates this phenomenon. In 2016, the property tax department, previously located in Béziers, was transferred. In November 2017, it was the turn of the sub-prefecture's legality review service to be moved. On January 1, 2018, the domain department migrated. In all three cases, in favour of Montpellier. The Prime Minister today hosted a seminar to put into music the measures announced last Thursday by the President of the Republic. Among the themes selected were territorial equity. How can we speak of territorial equity when so many government services are relocated, month after month, from medium-sized cities to metropolitan areas? Why is your policy of sharing and optimising services systematically at the expense of medium-sized cities? Why, if your decentralization announcements are made in good faith, do not distribute skills by combining sub-prefectures rather than concentrating everything in the prefectures? Why not sum EDF Renewables to develop its activities and keep its employees in the Biterrois rather than, once again, to focus its growth on Montpellier? However, it is a public company, belonging to the EDF group, which owns 83.5% of the State. I am not even talking about the high-speed line between Montpellier, Béziers and Perpignan, which we have been hoping for for more than thirty years and which we will probably wait another ten years, because priority will once again be given to the metropolises – in the case we are interested in, in Toulouse. My question is simple: what concrete measures does the Government intend to take to break this infernal circle and finally give the middle towns and their inhabitants a chance?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u229	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u230	The Government is mobilized not to transfer public services from small and medium-sized cities to metropolitan areas, but to pursue the most balanced spatial planning policy possible. While this task falls, in particular, on Jacqueline Gourault, Sébastien Lecornu and Julien Denormandie, the objective is pursued by all members of the Government. You have raised a number of problems in your question, particularly in relation to EDF. According to what we had heard, this undertaking initially planned to maintain settlements in Béziers and Colombiers, but it did not exclude, in the context of the social dialogue conducted within it, a transfer to Montpellier. Beyond this case, which is of legitimate concern to the elected Dickroise that you are, you have mentioned other services of the State. Indeed, a number of restructurings have taken place. They result, for prefectural services, from the implementation of the PPNG programme – new generation prefectures – which has been completed. Restructurings have also been carried out, year after year, in the public finance network; They have resulted in the closure or consolidation of public treasury services. Thus, 1200 cash contact points have been closed in ten years. You also cited two examples of the consolidation of public services that affected the Béziers Basin. We want to change our method. Beyond the commitments made by the President of the Republic and recalled this morning by the Prime Minister in terms of consultation and spatial planning, Gérald Darmanin and I have launched a reorganization of the public finance network which differs from the one we have known so far. We want to put an end to the annual restructuring plans and develop a multi-year vision that will allow public finance agents, elected officials and all stakeholders to know where we are going. We want to increase the number of points of contact in the territory and, at the same time, improve the working conditions of our agents. In the coming weeks and months, all the departmental directors of public finance will have to open a dialogue with the prefects, local elected representatives, parliamentarians and trade union organisations to draw up a map of public finance services within four to five years, share it and strive to achieve this objective without successive and often unpredictable closures, such as those you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u231	We have completed the questions on the Government's policy on the maintenance of public services in the Territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u232	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u233	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u234	The next item is the questions on the implementation of the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. The Conference of Presidents has set the maximum duration of each question and reply at two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u235	I am pleased that an issue as crucial as the fight against sexual and gender-based violence is being addressed tonight. But, at the same time, how can we not regret the timetable chosen – it is twenty-three hours forty-five – which once again shows the little interest society has in this question? I also see a strange consonance with the adoption of the law of 3 August 2018, by a simple vote, in the middle of the night, in a desert hemicycle. While it should have reached consensus, as the cause was shared, this law seemed unsatisfactory, far removed from the stakes. She's disappointed. It has created a very widespread sense of frustration on the benches of this House, including among the majority. It was also the almost unanimous feeling of associations and NGOs, which had a strong expectation. I voted in favour of this text because it led to an improvement, the ten-year extension of the statute of limitations for sexual crimes against minors – such a small step for a cause that would have required so much more ambition. We were waiting for a law that would protect the victims, not the perpetrators. For example, many of us called for the creation of a specific offence, so that any sexual act committed by an adult against a child would constitute rape, without having to prove any lack of consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u236	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u237	You argued that we could not create this offence, given the risk of unconstitutionality. It must be noted that, in the conduct of your policies, this argument is of varying geometry: for many bills, you have swept away the risk of a back end. On the other hand, when it comes to protecting our children, the Constitutional Council scares you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u238	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u239	Understand our astonishment! The experts we have met all agree that the creation of a specific offence, as we propose, would not be unconstitutional. In addition, the law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence does not, as you suggest in the media, establish an age limit. Having said that, I welcome the establishment of a working group to assess convictions handed down since the Act came into force. Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State responsible for equality between women and men and the fight against discrimination, when an ambitious and protective law for victims, which would put an end to the total impunity of sexual abusers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u240	I invite each of you to respect your speaking time, which may not exceed two minutes. The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u241	Indeed, honourable Member, the subject you have raised is extremely sensitive. You say you have placed a lot of hope in the law passed by Parliament last August. It is a hope that we have nourished collectively and that we continue to bear. You claim that the extension of the statute of limitations for sexual crimes against minors has led you to vote in favour of the law. Beyond this provision, the text contains positive developments which the judges have seized. You're talking about the characteristics of rape. The judges having seized the law of August 3, 2018 – we will have the opportunity to measure it when Alexandra Louis, who was entrusted with an evaluation mission of this text, has given his conclusions – they were able to qualify as "rape" a number of acts when it appeared necessary. I could give you some very concrete examples, in particular the cases of Pontoise and Meaux, which have outraged public opinion and in which we have obtained developments on the part of the magistrates. I do not believe that this law has provided any positive answers. In the question of discernment, as formulated, the legislator provided important elements. The wording adopted is not justified solely on constitutional grounds. The issue of non-retroactivity also played a central role: with the provisions you voted on, the text immediately applied, including to ongoing cases. These are the main reasons why this law involves extremely serious progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u242	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u243	Thank you for your reply, Madam Keeper of the Seals, but the associations, NGOs and a number of Members consider that this law does not protect victims of child crime, but rather strengthens, as you said, the judge's interpretative power. Lawyers and legal professionals all agree on this finding. I would like to make available to you all the judicial decisions taken since the coming into force of the Act. They're pretty talkative. Of the fourteen judgements rendered since March 1, 2019, seven have been heard and seven have been heard in corrections. This law therefore pushes for the correction of procedures. The result is that the judgments are not up to the stakes we are talking about tonight. These are the sentences handed down in prison: four months in prison, thirty months in prison suspended, three months in prison suspended, five years in prison closed for extremely sordid acts, one release, six months in prison suspended. In the Le Mans case, which motivated one of my questions to the Government, a repeat grandfather who raped his 8-year-old granddaughter was sentenced to eight months' suspended imprisonment. This law therefore represents, in the eyes of some of us, a regression from previous judgments. She's not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u244	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u245	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u246	With all due respect, honourable Member, it is excessive to speak of "regression." I find it difficult to hear that word for the text that you have adopted. In many respects, this law is not a regression, but a step forward. I understand that you are denouncing what appears to you to be inadequacies, but still a complete reasoning should be followed. You are referring to a series of judgments handed down since the adoption of the law, but the new definition of moral coercion and surprise has undoubtedly allowed – I use the words "arguably" because one cannot be in the court of the judge, who retains his freedom of assessment – to sentence on appeal the accused of the Meaux case, who had been acquitted at first instance by the court of assizes before the law was passed. The latter changed the judge's perception and support for the legislative provision. Moreover, you denounce the too frequent correction of these cases. Madam Member, you have authorized, under the law of 23 March 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice, the launch of a new experiment consisting of the creation of departmental criminal courts. This experiment will begin on 1 September in seven departments; We believe that it will be a success and will therefore be widespread. These departmental criminal courts will judge as crimes acts that are too often corrected, because the evidence is sometimes a little tricky and victims, like the culprits, need a faster trial. I am confident that these elements will go in the way you want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u247	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor on a third question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u248	Madam Keeper of the Seals, acknowledge that the establishment of an age limit would at least have allowed child victims of child crime to be protected. I would also like to question you on a subject that many consider unfair, that of traumatic amnesia, which concerns 40 per cent of victims of sexual violence. The recent reforms of the statute of limitations, including that of the law referred to this evening, are not retroactive in scope and therefore cannot be applied to victims born in the 1970s and 1980s. For these victims of traumatic amnesia, the only way to prosecute their aggressor is to demonstrate the existence of a cause of suspension of the course of the prescription. However, the Court of Cassation has developed an excessively strict case law. Even if the victim demonstrates that she could not act, this is not enough; the existence of manoeuvres developed by the author must be demonstrated. This unacceptable case law is contrary to European law and will soon be condemned by the European Court of Human Rights. It disregards the right to an investigation, enshrined in article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and the right to a fair trial, provided for in article 6 of the same Convention, since the statute of limitations prevents such persons from having access to a court. Your law has not taken into account the dramatic problem of traumatic amnesia. All victims should be able to enjoy the same rights, if only in the spirit of justice and reparation for those people, who have suffered such an unacceptable aggression that their neglect was the only way to cope with it and survive. The story of Abbé Preynat, whom the film Grace à Dieu recounts as a magnificent reportage, shows how traumatic amnesia is a real subject. Your law has forgotten these victims, but not us! What do you think of this subject of traumatic amnesia?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u249	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u250	Again, honourable Member, I find your speech somewhat excessive. You say "your law," but it's not mine: it's ours, yours more precisely. This law takes into account the issue of traumatic amnesia. You yourself said that you voted for this text because it extended the statute of limitations for sexual crimes against minors by ten years. A person who has been raped in childhood may report the crime until the age of 48. We have therefore taken this issue of traumatic amnesia well into account, by extending the limitation period by ten years. This law represents a real step forward in relation to the difficulties you raise. You say that the Court of Cassation has rendered a case law contrary to the right to a fair trial, on which the ECHR will return. We'll see! The Court of Cassation is often extremely attentive to European case law, of which it is probably one of the most faithful interpreters. It is because we have heard the words of specialists such as Dr. Muriel Salmona and we have wanted to take into account the issue of traumatic amnesia that the law you have passed extends the statute of limitations as much as possible. It goes without saying that the more time passes, the harder the evidence is to bring – you know as I do. We must never lose sight of that element.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u251	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u252	After much debate in this House, Parliament decided to lay down in law the principle of a threshold of 15 years, below which, in a sexual act between an adult and a minor, coercion or surprise are characterized by the abuse of vulnerability of the minor, incapable of discernment. On the other hand, for a minor of at least 15 years of age, there is no reason to assess the absence or presence of discernment. During the debate, many Members pointed out that this clarification of coercion or surprise could lead to confusion between rape and sexual assault, the age limit of which is 15 years. Other parliamentarians also regretted that too much attention was being given to the issue of consent or the presumption of absence, whereas a new prohibition could have been created by systematically classifying rape as the act of having sex with a minor, for example, under the age of 13. Far from wanting to reopen the debate, even if it would seem necessary to me, I would like to know, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the Secretary of State, what you have learned from the first few months of the law. In concrete terms, what has changed in the judicial treatment of cases? What is the reaction, positive or negative, of the associations representing the victims?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u253	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u254	You are referring, Mr. Member, to the notion of sexual assault, which could have caused confusion when the bill was introduced. This provision, which was contained in Article 2, was deleted from the final wording, as the Joint Joint Committee had adopted a text in which that concept no longer appeared. Confusion is therefore no longer possible. We have chosen to submit to parliamentarians a text explicitly mentioning the age of 15, because the experts we have had to work told us that this age is more relevant than the age of 13, and that there is no reason not to protect young people between the ages of 13 and 15 with this device. It is too early to assess the concrete impact of this law on court judgements. As you said yourself, we do not yet have the necessary step back to see if it has increased the qualifications of rape in cases involving children under 15 years of age. Under the authority of the Prime Minister, the keeper of the seals and I have decided to entrust an assessment mission to MP Alexandra Louis, rapporteur of the law strengthening the fight against gender-based and sexual violence, which will begin at the end of the first year of application of this law. Having interviewed associations and, above all, victims, but also judges, lawyers and professionals involved in early childhood and childhood support, Ms. Louis will tell us whether or not this law has allowed sexual violence against minors under the age of 15 to be better qualified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u255	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u256	Today, Monday, April 29, a woman was killed by her companion. This is the forty-seventh femicide recorded in France since the beginning of the year by the volunteer collective that has kept this count since 2016. In 2017, the number of victims of sexual violence exploded, with 265,000 cases, compared to 173,000 in 2016, according to a study by the National Observatoire de la délinquent et des résponses pénals et de l'INSEE published last December. We all share the objective of eradicating the scourge of gender-based violence, whose femicides are the most extreme expression, and sexual violence. However, one of the stumbling blocks in our discussions is the question of means, both those allocated to the training of members of the police, the judiciary and the medical profession, and the financial resources allocated to associations, which face recurring problems of financial viability. Article 9 of the Act of 3 August 2018 on strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence states: "Within six months from the promulgation of this Act, the Government shall submit to Parliament a report on local mechanisms to assist victims of sexual assault, enabling such victims to be accompanied and to carry out judicial procedures within university hospitals". Eight months have passed since the enactment of the law, and it is impossible for us to get our hands on this report. In our view, this lack of data may lead to the implementation of an inadequate public policy, particularly with regard to the needs of associations on the ground. In order to fulfil our role of monitoring and evaluating the Government's work, we need to know these figures and diagnoses, which are provided exclusively by government departments and inter-ministerial committees. We would therefore like to know exactly where the report is being produced, when it will be available and, if by chance its publication had escaped our vigilance, what the first conclusions are. Above all, we would like to know whether you intend to allocate to the fight against sexual and gender-based violence the substantial resources requested by the joint report published in 2018 by the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – the High Council for Gender Equality – HCE – and the Women's Foundation. This report estimates the budget needed for the exit routes of women victims of domestic violence at EUR 500 million, which is far more than the 79 million currently allocated to the scheme and which the authors of the report consider very clearly insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u257	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u258	Madam Member, you are right to recall the chilling scale of the phenomenon of domestic violence, particularly femicides, especially since the beginning of the year. It is the subject of several accounts made by different associations. You cited the Facebook page "Féminicides par compagnies ou ex". Other organizations also make counts, as well as the newspaper Libération. Of course, the public authorities are also doing so. My colleague Laurent Nunez and I will soon be launching an initiative on this subject. No government has ever devoted so many resources to the fight against domestic violence and the prevention of femicides. Together with Nicole Belloubet, Keeper of the Seals, Christophe Castaner, Minister of the Interior, and Laurent Nunez, Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, we opened a reporting platform available 24 hours a day and seven days a week. Two police and gendarmerie units are mobilized to respond to victims of domestic violence and to enable them to prepare their complaints and to provide the best possible guidance. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] In addition, we asked directly from the National Federation of Women Solidarity, responsible for managing the emergency number 3919, what additional means were needed for 100% of telephone calls to be answered. The officials of the federation told us that they needed 120000 euros, and we signed them without discussing a cheque for this amount to abound their grant, so that 100% of the calls to 3919 would get an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u259	That's still not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u260	In addition, we have significantly increased several subsidies. I will not recall all the figures here and will simply give a few examples. The Feminist Collective Against Rape now receives a €372,500 grant, which is huge. The National Women's Solidarity Federation has also seen its grant increase to €1.445 million. The National Federation of Women's and Family Rights Information Centres now receives €1.280 million. In short, a great deal of additional grants are allocated to associations, which thus have more resources. We continue to work and increase the budget for our public policies. The report you are referring to, Mrs Obono, is under way. As soon as we have a sufficient setback on these public policies, we will communicate it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u261	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u262	A publication by INED – the National Institute for Demographic Studies – dated March 8th, reveals alarming figures on sexual and gender-based violence in La Réunion. Worse, the gap with the situation of the Hexagon is widening. For example, 36 per cent of women report having been whistled and accosted on the pretext of dredge. Another observation: if 1% of women in metropolitan France report having been subjected to insistent proposals ignoring their refusal, this proportion amounts to 3% in Réunion. And let us not forget the facts of violence at work! I could keep drawing up figures attesting to the fact that mentalities are far from having changed. The attacks of jealousy, the control of the person, its devalorisation and denigration, the deprivations and the prohibition of access to the couple's money are all invisible violence that tend to become trivial. They mainly affect women, but also, to a lesser extent, men. While the establishment of the 3919 – a free and anonymous number to report such violence – as well as the creation of an online reporting portal to support victims are excellent initiatives, their discretion in public opinion can be regretted. The current communication is not enough. There is a need for a general display in public places, including hospitals, doctors' offices, town halls and public transport. Moreover, it is surprising that the authorities do not attack the dissemination of advertisements with sexist connotations. Their effect on the representation of citizens, especially the younger ones, is known. So we can worry about their silent banality. In view of my remarks describing an alarming situation, are you ready, Madam Secretary of State, to devote resources to an effective fight against sexual and gender-based violence in La Réunion? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u263	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u264	Mr President, you are absolutely right. I also agree with your observation that it is currently documented. The index of domestic violence is 1.5 times higher in Réunion than at the national level. There is therefore an urgent need to act specifically in this territory – my colleague Annick Girardin and I are working on it. However, I recall that the State has been pursuing a specific local policy to prevent and combat violence against women in the overseas regions for several years, for example by improving the specific knowledge on this subject. An extension of the Virage survey on violence and gender relations is under way in Guadeloupe, Martinique and La Réunion. On this subject, the Ministry of Overseas Affairs has invested EUR 150,000 since 2017, or EUR 50000 per year. In addition, we are improving the care of ultramarine women who are victims of domestic violence, in particular through the extension of the "serious danger telephone" system, the generalisation of social workers in police stations and gendarmerie and the experimentation, which has been launched primarily in the ultramarine territories, of hospital centres with units specializing in the overall care of psychotrauma. We are also working to adapt the training of professionals working with women victims of violence to the ultramarine sociological specificities described in a recent EESC report. I am thinking in particular of the economic interdependence within the couple, which is more widespread in these territories. In addition, we consolidate support for associations. For example, €250,000 was paid in 2018 to associations involved in this field. This aid was renewed in 2019. Finally, we develop education on emotional life and sexual health through information campaigns. In 2018, 80300 euros were allocated to information and accompaniment centres for women victims of violence located in La Réunion – compared to about 70000 euros in 2017 – including 34800 euros for the two day reception centres and 45500 euros for the seven listening, reception and orientation centres. The Reunion Observatory on Violence against Women has entrusted a provider with the organization of workshops for kindly writing for women victims of violence followed by associations. More than 100 texts have been produced and compiled in a collection. Some were read by participants on November 25, 2018. Since 2018, the Observatory has also developed the training by organising awareness days. For example, 270 actors were raised last year. These actions were renewed in 2019. These include the conclusion of a partnership with the La Réunion Transport Joint Union to conduct a specific awareness campaign against gender-based harassment in transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u265	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u266	We welcome the extension of the statute of limitations for sexual crimes committed against minors, provided for in article 1 of the Act of 3 August 2018. We know how hard it is for the victims to denounce these crimes. It sometimes takes them very many years to find the strength to do so, or simply to cope with the traumatic shock. However, everyone here will agree that the extension of the statute of limitations to 30 years alone cannot be sufficient to improve the care and support of victims of sexual violence. Today, the budget for combating violence against women represents 0.007 per cent of the State budget. This figure is not up to the challenge we face. Everywhere in France, even though the issue is supposed to be a priority for Mr Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, associations accompanying women victims of violence are struggling to close their budgets. Every year, 225,000 women are victims of physical or sexual violence by their partner or ex-partner. In 2016, 123 women died. However, in several cities in France, reception and support mechanisms for women victims of violence are threatened in the short term or already closed due to lack of funding. The issue of emergency accommodation leading to a stable and serene place of life is crucial. The declines in funding come from all parts of the country. Since the MeToo and Balance Ton Pork campaigns, more women have dared to contact associations, which are doing a great job with women who are victims of violence. However, these same associations are seeing their subsidies decline or even disappear. The means of welcoming, listening, comforting, orienting and helping these women are therefore reduced as the skin of grief. In our ridings, we see how essential these associations are. Madam Secretary of State, we ask you not to let them down.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u267	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u268	Mr President, I am wrong about what you have just said. A fact that could be true in 2017 is no longer true in 2019. No association dedicated to the reception of women victims of gender-based or sexual violence has seen its subsidy decline. Absolutely none!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u269	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u270	I have all the numbers here. If you know any, send them to me! None of these associations is struggling to close their budgets. I'll give you a few figures because the facts are stubborn. The Nest Movement: We doubled its grant. Feminist Collective Against Rape: 100,000 euros more. Family planning: 100,000 euros more. 3919, managed by the National Federation of Women Solidarity: 120000 euros in addition. The Excision association, let's talk about it: an increase of 300%. The GAMS Federation – Group for the Abolition of Sexual Mutilation, Forced Marriages and Other Traditional Practices Harming the Health of Women and Children –: 40000 euros in addition. I can go on like this for a long time! [[Olivier Gaillard applauds]] In total, we increased subsidies by 21.3%, or EUR 5 million. In addition, I have contributed 400,000 euros of unused communication appropriations in the envelope of the grants granted to associations. I am absolutely formal: there was no euro for a reduction in subsidies. There were only increases. When the budgets of sexual and gender-based violence associations were changed, they were all from the top. I am absolutely formal on this point. It's not rhetoric! If you are aware of associations in financial difficulty, I ask you to let me know because we do not allow any association to close for financial reasons. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It may happen that local branches of associations close at the request of the national office, or because they do not meet certain conditions, or because this is the life of associations... Some are created, others close. But at no time, under any circumstances, does an active association close for lack of state subsidies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u271	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u272	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u273	In February 2019, 332 violations of gender-based contempt were filed by police and gendarmes in the national territory. According to associations to combat gender-based violence, this figure is derisory in relation to the number of victims of sexism. Thus, according to an INED survey published in 2017, 3 million French women reported that they had been subjected to street harassment during the year. For many professionals, the fight against street harassment is also taking place elsewhere, in particular in the field of education, but also in the security forces, which must be made aware of these problems. The issue of training judges, magistrates and police officers was crucial, since many procedures could be abusive and destructive to victims. On the other hand, many police officers believe that the creation of gender-based contempt can be potentially dangerous for victims. If they report an undetectable offence, they may again be exposed to their attacker after the police leave. Finally, I would like to point out that our legislative action is far from over. The fight against gender-based violence and discrimination against women must be translated into law and regulatory acts in a much greater way; It must be carried out in all fields of society. This is at least what the "great cause of the quinquennium" deserves. What are the Government's intentions on these issues?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u274	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u275	I obviously share the sense of urgency that you have just expressed. To update the figures, I would like to point out that it is now 447 contraventions that have been issued for gender-based contempt or street harassment. Very honestly, it's not a figure that we have to blush! I recall that, when we discussed the creation of sexist outrage a few months ago, there were many of you on these benches telling us that it would never work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u276	Not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u277	[[Smile]] Not you, Congressman, but others. We would never be able to verbalize sexist outrage, it would be too difficult to characterize, it would be a gadget, a failure... You wanted to vote for the principle but it would never be applied! But the facts show, with these 447 verbalizations in just a few months, that this tool works, thanks to the determination of the forces of law and order. France is the first country in the world that has chosen to verbalize street harassment; the flagrance verbalization of sexist outrage was chosen for its effective character. In Belgium, on the other hand, where it was a crime that had been created, only three complaints were lodged, and none resulted in a conviction. Our device is effective and will rise in power, because we will continue to train the forces of law and order. Prefects must set concrete objectives. We must also continue to raise awareness among society as a whole. A communication campaign, worth €4 million, was launched by the Prime Minister. We also carry out actions to educate people about emotional and sexual life. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Members who voted on this bill, and those who, upstream, worked on the creation of the sexist contempt offence. They did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u278	[[Smile]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u279	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u280	A year ago, the law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence was presented to us as a major tool. This text was indeed expected and necessary to act effectively before it was too late. But on March 5, in Upper Corsica, Julie Douib, a young mother, was killed by her ex-spouse. This murder was the thirtieth femicide since the beginning of the year. This unacceptable death obliges us to ask ourselves the question of the effectiveness of the mechanisms that exist to avoid such tragedies. We all know that the first stage, the reception and care of victims, is essential. It is not easy to push the door of a police station or gendarmerie to denounce such violence. To tell this to a person who is not known, it is like a second phase of violence, a self-made violence to put aside fear, shame, to silence the space for a few moments the suffering in order to relate everything clearly, almost coldly, because circumstances so require, to hope to be understood. There are many reports, for example, of an officer's refusal to make a complaint on the grounds that marital rape does not exist, or of another woman who explains to a woman who has just been raped that it is not rape because she does not demonstrate her lack of consent, while she was tetanized, unable to react. The reception of victims of sexual or gender-based violence in police stations and gendarmerie is a major issue. Of course, the law enforcement agencies are working on this subject, but they are often poor and there is still a need to train and professionalize referents in each territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and UDI-Agir groups]] While the voice of victims of physical or sexual violence has been freed for several years, complaints are rare and the handrails too. One of the causes of this situation is the continuing dysfunction in the reception and care of victims. That is why the Libertés et territoires Group wishes you to inform us whether, since the enactment of this law, the path of victims of sexual or gender-based violence is, in reality, more humane and easier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u281	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u282	After the murder of Mrs Julie Douib, which you recalled, I wanted to bring together the elected representatives of Corsica and local actors – not because this murder took place in Corsica, but because it was a symbol, being the thirtieth femicide of the year. Unfortunately, the pace is such that we already count forty-seven. It is important for us to understand, each time, what has been dysfunctional, no matter where a woman is murdered by her spouse or ex-spouse. We must systematically analyse the path that has led, sometimes, to a failure to take care of a particular structure. The Government is carrying out significant training, victim care and investigation activities. We want to improve the reception and guidance of victims, as well as the effectiveness of investigations, notably through the training of professionals by MIPROF, the inter-ministerial mission for the protection of women victims of violence and the fight against trafficking in human beings. These trainings are deployed exponentially. A joint working group of the Ministries of the Interior and Justice is working on the establishment of training courses at the local level for investigators and magistrates. In addition, 261 social workers in the police and gendarmerie provide social care for victims in distress. The recruitment of an additional seventy-three psychologists, the establishment of a group of investigators to deal specifically with sexual offences committed in transport and the reporting platform I mentioned earlier are in the same direction. The latter has nothing anecdotal: in a few months, more than 2100 contacts have taken place with the police and the gendarmes, and they have resulted in nearly 600 reports to the police. All this is important because, as you have said very well, women do not always dare to push the door of the police station, or push it for the first time but give it up, for reasons of all orders, some of which you have mentioned. We must help them to complete their process, to file complaints, to conduct investigations and to ensure that convictions are handed down. These platforms, these telephone numbers, make it possible to prepare complaints, to facilitate the steps, so that these women receive the best possible support. A complaint must not constitute a second trauma, after the first trauma of violence. The Government is fully committed. But it cannot do everything: to better take care of the victims, it is all the actors on the ground that must be mobilised. That is why in the territories we have entered into "local contracts against violence" signed around the prefects to allow for the sharing of alerts between associations, emergency workers, law enforcement officials, magistrates... Ile-de-France and Normandy have already signed such contracts; 12 contracts will be signed by May, and 11 additional contracts will be signed in June.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u283	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u284	Women have always been present in history, but their role and rights have all too often been denied, ruined, from the historical narrative. Fortunately, the erasure of women in our country has regressed. This evening, we are celebrating an important anniversary, that of the first vote in the history of French women. Today, we continue to fight for the rights of women, against all abuses against them, including sexual or gender-based violence that your law, Madam Secretary of State, aims to eradicate. As you pointed out a year ago, this requires better care for the victims from the earliest manifestations of violence. The "serious-danger telephone" system was created by law in 2014. What's the status of its deployment? However, this progress is not enough for itself, and we must ask ourselves how to prevent such behaviour. When considering your bill, Madam Secretary of State, you said that beyond the law, beyond the sanction, communication is important, pedagogy is essential. It is indeed because our society will restore all its place, all its dignity, to the human being, especially to women, because they will at last be visible in this world still too dominated by men, and because they will be accepted for themselves, that such attacks can disappear. Communication and pedagogy are therefore essential. Can you provide an update on the upcoming national communications campaigns, as well as those that can be carried out in the territories, especially at the regional level, through the call for projects that you have launched?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u285	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u286	You're asking us about dealing with sexual and gender-based violence. It's a file we're stuck on. To the various mechanisms already mentioned by Mrs Schiappa, I would add that the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law, which you have adopted, makes it possible to file complaints online. This is obviously not the only answer to be given, but it is an additional answer that I believe is essential. Other mechanisms exist to ensure more effective protection of women. I am thinking first of all of the protection order, which we have very recently increased in scope, and which I believe deserves to be used more than it is now. Spain, for example, more often pronounces this type of measure. In a few days I will issue a new circular on violence against women, which will insist, with very concrete elements, on these protection orders. The "serious danger phone", which you mentioned, will also be used more in the coming years: from about 700 today, their number will be increased to 1100 in two years. Furthermore, thanks to the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law that you voted for, I will be able to experiment with a new system of protection for women. This electronic approach protection device – DEPAR – is an electronic bracelet that will allow better protection for women who are likely to be victims of such violence: as soon as the violent person approaches the victim, within a radius to be determined, an alarm will be activated automatically. We are therefore endeavouring to multiply the devices to go in the way you wish, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u287	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u288	[[Sophie Auconie applauds]] I will begin my statement by paying tribute to the forty-eighth woman who died under the blows of her companion. It was a few hours ago, her name was Chloe, she was 33 years old. In recent years, the fight against cyber-harassment has been the subject of intense legislative production, in order to counter the evolution of this scourge. The law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence has, among other things, provided a legal definition of digital raids, which are now a specific offence punishable by up to three years' imprisonment and a fine of 45,000 euros. The revelation of cyber-harassment cases such as that of the "LOL League" or others that arise a few weeks after the school year leads us to question the effectiveness and density of our legislative and regulatory arsenal aimed at preventing these acts, accompanying their victims and punishing their perpetrators. This reflection will soon come to fruition when our colleague Laetitia Avia's bill on the fight against cyberhaine is examined. It is difficult to assess the extent of the phenomenon. There are no official statistics. A United Nations report mentions 73 per cent of women victims of online violence. A U.S. study argues that four out of ten adults have been subjected to some form of online harassment. A survey tells us that one third of women say they have been threatened by their partner, or by an ex-partner, with the dissemination of intimate content. Madam Secretary of State, you have rightly stated that there is nothing to prevent us from studying the extension of the statute of limitations for these offences. This is an interesting lead, because harassers sometimes escape punishment because of too late disclosure of the facts. It is also for this reason that we must encourage and accompany the release of the victims' words. The creation of the digital raid offence was very expected. Do you have indicators highlighting the effectiveness of this creation and possibly showing what improvements could be made to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u289	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u290	Mr President, let me begin by commending the work you have done in discussing this law. Article 11 of the law of 3 August 2018 penalizes cyber-harassment in a pack. He allowed several convictions, including those who harassed Nadia Daam, Nicolas Hénin, or, quite anecdotally, myself. Although the circular of 3 September 2018 setting out the new provisions and making recommendations to prosecutors of the Republic states that "the complaints of victims of these digital raids will have to give rise to the investigations necessary to identify, if not all of the authors of these messages, at least the main ones of them and in particular those who are at the initiative of harassment", there is still considerable progress to be made, not so much of the law enforcement and justice forces as of the platforms and hosting companies. While some of them cooperate, others, like Twitter, do not do so at all: they do not provide IP addresses, and sometimes even do not remove the messages that are criminalized and condemned by the courts. The result is incredible paradoxical situations where, contrary to the law, tweets remain online despite a conviction in court for cyberbullying in a pack. To combat and prevent this cyber-harassment, especially in the school environment – it must be borne in mind that we act especially for people who are far from the law, especially for the younger ones – we have created an "Internet permit" that can be passed from the class of CM2. In 2018, 8118 "Internet permits" actions were carried out, which reached nearly 170,000 students. In addition, 163,000 alerts were made on the PHAROS platform – a platform for harmonising, analysing, cross-referencing and guiding alerts – some of which have been described as cyber-harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u291	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u292	A few weeks ago, in the face of the roar of hatred against which he was the target on social networks, young Hugo launched a cry of distress, going so far as to implore in a tweet that he is left alive. His crime? Having published a joke about the Kaaba of Mecca, which exposed him to a flood of insults and death threats. Unfortunately, his case is far from isolated. According to statistics published by the e-Enfance association in charge of the National Listening Line, almost 40% of adolescents aged 13 to 17 report having already been subjected to an online assault. However, research initiated since the early 2000s shows the dramatic consequences of these attacks on the mental health of young victims, as well as on their academic success. The law of 3 August 2018 allowed the Government and the majority to mobilize on this subject since article 11, which we have just mentioned, penalizes cyber-harassment in packs in order to break the feeling of impunity that too often prevails online. We will pursue this goal next June with the bill of our colleague Laetitia Avia, which aims to remove the anonymity of the perpetrators of hate and to facilitate legal proceedings. However, it should be noted that, in many cases, cyber-harassment is nothing more than an extension of traditional forms of school harassment. It therefore concerns a majority of minors for whom the scope of a criminal sanction is not always sufficiently dissuasive. This is why educating and raising students' awareness of the issues of online citizenship is a fundamental issue, from an early age, even before young people become fully autonomous in their digital uses. Article 12 of the Act of 3 August 2018, which amends the Education Code, provides for the integration of cyber-harassment into digital education. Could you, Madam Secretary of State, enlighten us on how national education has seized this issue? How is the problem of respect for others on the Internet now integrated into the programmes?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u293	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u294	Thank you for your question, honourable Member. In the case you have chosen to illustrate it, I want to remind you first of all that blasphemy does not exist in the law, whereas it was the basis of the cyber-harassment in pack that the young Hugo suffered as a result of his online joke. While article 11 of the Act of 3 August 2018 penalizes cyberbullying in a pack, article 12 of the Act, which amends the Education Code, provides for the integration of cyberbullying into digital education, as the entire educational community must mobilize. In this context, I was able to travel to a school with Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, Brigitte Macron and various actors in the fight against cyberharassment, including Facebook. The company launched a call for projects, with considerable funding to combat cyber-harassment and reach the target of young people, through influencers and youtubers known and appreciated by young people, including students. We have three priorities in this regard. The first is to train and raise awareness among young people, notably through the National Day of Mobilization against Harassment, held on the first Thursday in November, and the dedicated website www.nonauharcelement.education.gouv.fr. We also want to prevent cyber-harassment through school climate surveys and prevention plans. Emotional and sex education sessions also provide an answer to these questions. Finally, we want to inform us in order to take better care, thanks to the green number 3020, which is widely distributed in schools, and to the professionalisation of the actors in the field, assisted by the 310 academic referents mobilized on this topic. Article 1 bis C of the draft law for a school of trust, which deals specifically with school harassment, states that "no pupil shall be subjected to repeated acts of harassment in schools which have as their object or effect a deterioration of his or her conditions of study which may affect his or her rights and dignity, impair his or her physical or mental health or compromise his or her professional future".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u295	[[Smile]] That is the Balanant amendment! I say that, I say nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u296	Mrs Sandrine Josso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u297	The fight against sexual and gender-based violence is an absolute emergency. Such violence is intolerable. Gender-based insults and comments, sexual harassment, physical and moral violence, rape are intolerable. Today, it is a reality that we must all fight against, because this violence marks, traumatizes, breaks and kills. Since January 1, 2019, 45 women have died under the blows of their spouse or former spouse. A woman is killed every two days in our country. These figures are intolerable, unbearable. The law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence has made great progress. In particular, I am thinking of extending the statute of limitations for sexual crimes committed against minors from 20 to 30 years after the majority of the victims, or of creating offences to combat gender-based insults. This is a first step: there are still too many advances to be initiated and the fights to be waged. We still have to act, and faster. Today, new innovative tools are aimed at combating violence against women and preventing recidivism. This is particularly the case with the electronic device for the protection of against re-approximation, which has proved its worth in Spain, or with the device "serious telephone danger". Madam Keeper of the Seals, what is your position on the electronic anti-approximation device, as well as on all the innovative devices and tools to combat violence against women?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u298	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u299	Madam Member, I am extremely in favour of this mechanism. I also asked my administration to put the conditions in place quickly so that it could be implemented as quickly as possible. As far as femicides are concerned, I must act with greater will. First of all, I made the commitment, which Christophe Castaner approved, to analyse the situations in connection with the Ministry of the Interior. We need to look at the cases closed, since a feedback on an ongoing case is not possible, in order to find out whether the process put in place reveals a flaw, and if so, where it is located. It is about analyzing how things have happened, not necessarily identifying responsibilities. A balance sheet should be drawn from these analyses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u300	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u301	The second element, which I mentioned earlier, is the criminal order. I have asked the Director of Criminal Affairs and Pardons, present here, to take the necessary steps to make this highly effective legal provision more effective. Thirdly, support for associations. Marlène Schiappa referred earlier to the funding she provides to the latter. The Ministry of Justice, which also needs to finance certain associations – they are often the same – will increase its grants from €26 million to €30 million. Finally, I really want to deploy innovative devices, some of which are carried by associations. I am thinking, for example, of the App-Elles application, which we support. I am also thinking of DEPAR, which you mentioned and which we had already experienced a few years ago, without having the legal environment to ensure its effectiveness. However, some of the provisions that you have passed under the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law make this system more effective. That's what we're going to do. However, a decree in the Council of State is necessary in order to ensure the protection of personal data; We're preparing it. We will then be able to launch an experiment on this system in jurisdictions that have volunteered, including Pontoise. I hope that this will take place before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u302	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u303	History marks our memory of anniversaries that remind us of the way we have come. That was said, another 29 April, that of 1945, had seen for the first time the French, with their very new right to vote, go to the polls in the municipal elections. Seventy-four years later, I would like first of all to welcome the Government's commitment to the issue of equality between men and women, and in particular your investment, Madam Secretary of State. History may not repeat itself, but some effects persist. Our society is sick of sexism. If a law can change society, by naming what is right and what is not, it can above all strengthen our common mobilization, by raising awareness that will influence behaviour that is frozen in time. The creation of gender-based contempt is in this sense, because our society has always minimized gender-based offences. This law fills a legal gap by reprimanding certain sexual or gender-based behaviours that have so far escaped criminal punishment, as what was previously permissible in a latent manner has now become intolerable. The increasing number of violations of sexist contempt shows us the relevance of this law. Today, Madam Keeper of the Seals, I would like to ask you about the training of the law enforcement and sworn transport officers. The circular of 3 September 2018 defines the contours of gender-based outrage, but there is still a lack of clarity in the assessment to constitute the contravention. The difficulty of being reactive in the intervention is also noted. We said, it is not possible to place a policeman behind every woman. Persons guilty of such violations also incur an obligation to conduct an internship against sexism. Some prosecutors have been able to develop this type of internship within their jurisdiction. If I again welcome your support, in particular your financial support, what about the planned implementing decree? Finally, I believe a lot in the virtue of training. That is why I recently supported the initiative led by the information centre on women's and family rights – CIDFF – of my department, the Gard, to generalize, for the first time in France, a Canadian repository to better detect risks in cases of domestic violence. The goal is to lower the black figure of femicides, which amounts to forty-eight by April 30, 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u304	Thank you for closing, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u305	So, Madam Keeper of the Seals, what are the means envisaged to train the forces of law and order to distinguish the contours of sexist outrage? What is the situation with regard to the organization of the courses planned to supplement the said violation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u306	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u307	Thank you for your question, Member. I agree with you that it is absolutely necessary to combat sexism, in particular gender-based outrage. It is not tolerable that young girls going to high school or women leaving their jobs are forced to change sidewalks in order to avoid words of high sexual connotation. It was necessary to create this violation. As Marlène Schiappa said, 447 offences of street harassment have already been committed. This figure is not without importance! The training of justice professionals in the area of sexual and gender-based violence is obviously a priority for our ministry. It is for this reason that judges receive training on this subject as soon as they enter the National School of the Judiciary, in initial training, and then follow continuous training modules dedicated to this topic. The training of magistrates will be greatly enhanced by proactive action, led by a dedicated person from my administration. Marlène Schiappa has already announced this in one of his answers, we intend to organize joint trainings at the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, in order to ensure continuity in the handling of these difficulties. The training of police officers is more the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, although prosecutors – I am thinking of Le Mans – have in November 2018 introduced specific trainings dedicated to the detection of gender-based contempt for police officers, whether they are peacekeepers, gendarmes, police officers, SNCF agents or bus controllers. A very proactive action has therefore been taken. The decree to clarify the content of the course to combat sexism and to raise awareness of equality between women and men is currently being finalized. The 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law incorporated this internship into the new single probationary sentence. As the law is now passed, the Council of State will have before it the decree in the coming weeks. The content of the course was defined in consultation with the State Secretariat for Equality between Women and Men. In particular, this course should enable the convicted person to understand what sexism is, as well as the reasons for prohibiting all forms of sexual and gender-based violence in public and private spaces.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u308	Mrs Graziella Melchior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u309	The law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence had made significant improvements, but it must go further because violence against women was present everywhere, even in the cabinet of their gynaecologist. Many puberty, mature and elderly women have expressed themselves in the press or on social media to denounce unacceptable practices. A woman consults a gynecologist or obstetrician on average fifty times in her life. This visit is an intimate moment in which the woman must be particularly trusted, listened to and respected because she is naked. The vast majority of health professionals, general practitioners or specialists, know how to do this. However, sexist acts remain in a form that seems to be annoyed, but is not. I want to talk about these sexist remarks, these inappropriate judgments and the lack of consideration of the patient's discomfort. The figures attest to this, the phenomenon is not minor. These lack of attention and respect are all arrows that reach the woman, devalue her and hurt her psychologically. It's not normal! And what about the alarming situation denounced by the High Council on equality between women and men in its report of June 2018 on sexist acts during gynaecological and obstetric monitoring? One in two women who have suffered an episiotomy deplores a lack of or complete absence of explanation for her motive. Would it not be time for this common act to be carried out with the full consent of the mother and not without her knowledge, under sometimes dubious conditions? [[Nicole Le Peih applauds]] Following the report, the Government established a working group to formulate proposals to reduce gynaecological and obstetric violence. Madam Secretary of State, have you ever been aware of the avenues envisaged? What are they and when can they be implemented? In short, when will it be possible for all women in France to go to their gynaecologist or obstetrician without fear of having to undergo sexist judgments and remarks, or even the displaced gestures of some macho practitioners?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u310	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u311	Madam Member, thank you for your question, which, however, is not directly related to the content of the law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. Nevertheless, I see a continuum between the two subjects. The issue of gynaecological and obstetric violence is still very taboo in our society. As proof, shortly after my appointment to the Government, when I commissioned the High Council for Equality between Women and Men to report on this phenomenon, many eminent personalities called for my resignation on the grounds that I had dared to denounce these acts. In a few years, this reaction will, I hope, be looked at with questioning because it is time to bring to light the violence experienced by women in the greatest silence and taboo way in years – for generations, I should say. I would like to pay tribute here to the feminist activists and activists against gynaecological and obstetrical violence that have helped to put a name on this problem and to make it emerge in the public debate. I am thinking in particular of Marie-Hélène Lahaye, as well as others who have carried out strong research and militant actions on this subject. I have therefore, together with Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, commissioned a report to the High Council. This report has been submitted to us, accompanied by numerous recommendations. We decided to extend the work that has been done. We will therefore ask the High Council to establish a working group to monitor the implementation of these measures in order to restore trust between caregivers and caregivers and to prevent women from being afraid when they are about to consult a gynaecologist or obstetrician. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, it is not a question of throwing reproach at a profession. Gynecologists have always been engaged alongside women. It was also thanks to gynaecologists that the decriminalization of abortion took place. Gynaecologists and obstetricians often do the best they can to save the lives of women or babies during childbirth. It is not always possible for them, at the moment, to detail each surgical act, but it is important to restore the relationship of trust between caregivers and nurses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u312	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u313	I take advantage of this debate on sexual and gender-based violence to come back to the painful problem of domestic violence. Every year, nearly 220,000 women are subjected to the violence of their partner or ex-partner. Every year, 130 women die under beatings, one woman killed every three days. The situation in 2019 is far from improving. On the contrary, it is deteriorating since, as we have just heard, the forty-eighth victim died a few hours ago. It is therefore essential and urgent to find new ways to act. An experiment in the Val-d'Oise of the DEPAR device has just been proposed. It is an electronic bracelet that allows violent companions to be kept at a distance by triggering an alert as soon as the perpetrator of the violence crosses a defined perimeter. This device would be complementary to the "serious danger telephone", which can handle certain situations but is still insufficient in others. The electronic bracelet is already used in several countries in which it has proved its worth – I am thinking in particular of Spain. In our country, the law of 9 July 2010 provided for the experiment of this device for a period of three years. In 2011, Roselyne Bachelot, then Minister of Solidarity, chose to conduct this experiment in the jurisdiction of three courts of great jurisdiction – Amiens, Aix-en-Provence and Strasbourg. Unfortunately, the experiment did not validate the effectiveness of the device, since the penalty threshold for the use of the electronic bracelet was too high, and therefore inadequate for violence within a couple. [[Mrs. Valérie Boyer applauds]] Madam Keeper of the Seals, we have heard your willingness to experiment with this mechanism, but we must certainly reflect on a change in the legislative framework. Are you ready to review the level of punishment and work on it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u314	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u315	In the 2018-2022 Programming and Justice Reform Act, the penalty threshold is lowered to two years. This will now make it possible to conduct the experiment under better conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u316	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u317	I keep what I said a few days ago: society takes better account of femicides and the murders of women. On average, a woman is killed every three days by her spouse or former spouse. Unfortunately, experience shows that this average is smoothing over the year. We note, however, that the press is making less and less reference to crimes of passion and more and more to femicides or murders by spouses or ex-spouses – it is happy. This means that they are more visible, but they must also be combated more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u318	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u319	The fight against gender-based and sexual violence is a major battle. If the objective is consensual, the means to achieve it are debated and are far from sufficient. They do not meet the dire need for funding to pursue an ambitious policy on women's rights. Aggregation of the various public programmes and plans, including measures for this cause, amounts to about €80 million, while at least €500 million would be required each year to provide serious assistance to women victims of this violence. Only 10 per cent of projects funded by the voluntary sector specifically address violence against women. The decline in appropriations at national level leads to a very worrying situation, which I observe in particular in my department of the Alpes-Maritimes, even though the services of the State and the associations on the ground show remarkable dynamism. Gender-based and sexual violence is a phenomenon of such magnitude that it requires a genuine general and cross-cutting mobilization of the Government. The protection of minors from sexual violence, the fight against new forms of gender-based aggression, the fight against domestic violence against 225,000 women each year, and insecurity and violence in public and private spaces justify this imperative. The lack of resources is also cruelly felt for the need for emergency shelter for victims in precarious situations fleeing their aggressors. Their support after the trial by the associations would require multi-year funding. In that regard, a real victim status would be welcome. Lastly, the daily security police and their lack of training made their missions difficult, if not inapplicable, and their action ineffective. The law certainly has the merit of addressing problems and wanting to maintain collective vigilance, but without sufficient means, the only voluntarism is ineffective in the face of the magnitude of the task. My question will be simple: Madam Keeper of the Seals, Madam Secretary of State, far from the announcement effects, in order to be truly effective and truly serve the cause that we all intend to defend together, will you mobilize all the means of the State? And what?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u320	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u321	Despite all the respect I have for you, for your term of office and especially for your presence at this late hour – I thank you for this because this merit is not very shared on the benches of this assembly – I must tell you once again my disagreement. Indeed, 530 million euros are committed from the appropriations of my only State Secretariat. This is a much greater sum than you have indicated, and it is on the rise very clearly since all the precautionary reserves have been lifted thanks to the commitment of my colleague Gérald Darmanin. I have also pointed out additional appropriations which were intended for communication towards grants to associations, proof that much can be communicated at little cost and, contrary to the noise which is running, increase the subsidies to associations. In addition, this amount is not exhaustive. Thus, the platform for dialogue with the police that we mentioned earlier, which contributes very directly to the protection of women victims of gender-based and sexual violence, is not funded by my State Secretariat but by the Ministry of the Interior. The same applies to social workers. The "serious danger telephone" system is handled by the Ministry of Justice. The three sessions on education for emotional and sexual life fall under the national education budget. It must be understood that this is a highly interdepartmental policy. With €530 million committed in 2019, never more money has been spent on combating gender-based and sexual violence. The figures say that they are verifiable and included in the budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u322	Mrs Valérie Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u323	This has been said on several occasions a year ago that the law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence was passed. You pointed out that the fine for sexist contempt, an emblematic measure of this text, had been imposed 447 times. Although I welcome this progress, I would not like to see all the violence on the same level. Like many of my colleagues, I am deeply committed to these issues. I have tabled a number of bills, because I cannot be content with texts where everything is worth it, verbal assault, psychological pressure and physical harm. The old world has always been able to overcome divisions to agree on the major causes, especially women's. The Head of State has made violence against women, in all their forms, an essential subject. Yet, as was said earlier, 48 femicides have been committed since the beginning of the year. This figure is absolutely intolerable. Let us recall this morbid statistic: on average, 130 women die each year under the blows of their violent spouse. Let us strengthen the protection orders, as you are advocating, Madam Keeper of the Seals. Let us enshrine in our law the syndrome of the beaten person. Let's continue to develop the electronic bracelet and DEPAR, which allows us to objectify the relationship between the battered spouse and the violent spouse. Let us stop considering the violent parent as a good parent. Let us ensure, in case of proven domestic violence, that the children are seen in a publicized place, at least until the end of the case. You highlight the fight against sexual violence. However, it has been pointed out by my colleagues that several cases of rape of minors have particularly shocked our fellow citizens. Let me give you an example: On Friday, March 15, 2019, the Le Mans Correctional Court sentenced a recidivist grandfather who apparently committed rape on his 8-year-old granddaughter to only eight months' suspended imprisonment for sexual assault. This judgment is difficult to understand for the French. The removal of congestion in the courts, including the courts of assize, must not be to the detriment of the victims. It is time to move beyond the experimental stage. Rape is a crime and must be tried as such, especially when the victim is a minor. One issue that has not yet been addressed is excision. We must recall one figure: 600,000 excise women would live on French territory. The fight against female genital mutilation must be fully reflected in the health book. I would like to know the number of cases relating to excisions, since this figure has not yet been published. I would also have liked to mention – but time is running out –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u324	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u325	[[Xavier Breton and Sophie Auconia applaud]] ... other violence, including the veiling of girls. This is an aggression that is not dealt with in the texts, although it deserves to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u326	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u327	I repeat to you, Mrs Boyer, that we fully share your will to combat all the violence, including the femicides that you have mentioned. I have pointed out how much we wanted to give a boost in this area, as part of an inter-ministerial action – as I said for the Ministry of Justice and Marlène Schiappa gave you some information about his State Secretariat – because this violence is not acceptable. I will publish in a few days, I repeat, a circular on domestic violence, which will strengthen the responsiveness of prosecutors in this area – this is a very important point. The aim is to enter into the very practices and to encourage prosecutors to be even more vigilant. I mentioned the criminal orders, the "serious danger phone" and the DEPAR experiment. As I indicated in my reply to Mr Breton, we will now be able to use this bracelet more effectively, thanks to the provisions that you have adopted under the 2018-2022 Programming and Justice Reform Act. I hope that will be a very positive element. Of course, as you said, rape is a crime. I repeat, the departmental criminal courts will make it possible to provide a more effective response in this area. You mentioned some of the things that shocked you, especially Le Mans. I respect the independence of the judges. I consider that, from the moment the magistrates took a decision, they did so taking into account all the elements. Let me remind you that in the Le Mans case, the prosecution filed an appeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u328	I know, but still...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u329	When we quote specific cases, we have to look at the situation as a whole. On the issue of excise women, MP, we can only join you. In this area, Agnes Buzyn and Marlène Schiappa are taking decisive action, which the Ministry of Justice is in a position to support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u330	How much business is there?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u331	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u332	It is with relevance that the IDU, Action and Independent Group has placed on the agenda these questions on the implementation of the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence. This law was expected. Although the legislative debate has been bitter and bitter, for various reasons, we recognize that it is a complementary brick in the foundations and the wall to be built against sexual and gender-based violence. However, this has been said on several occasions, we can only note and regret that, in the state of our society, on April 30, 2019, much remains to be done. The text has indeed made progress. However, the legislative translation seems baroque to me and probably does not correspond to the strong determination of the President of the Republic to make his quinquennium a major step for the protection of women. I noted your answers: 447 sexist outrages were verbalized. This is a step, of course, but it remains very little compared to the 3 million women who are victims of such behaviour each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u333	You predicted that this would not work and that there would be no verbalization!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u334	A lot remains to be done. We will remain vigilant about any measures that the public authorities may take to ensure that the text is applicable. The main fear of the magistrates was that he would not be. [[Mrs Valérie Boyer and Mr Xavier Breton applaud]] My question concerns the non-denunciation of sexual crimes and offences. Children's professionals regret that some people are silent, including medical workers, who receive the voice of children but cannot say what it is, because of the rules of ethics specific to their profession. Are you considering changing the text on this specific point?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u335	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u336	The law was passed and promulgated just a few months ago. When we have the necessary step back to assess it, namely a full year, its rapporteur, Alexandra Louis, will carry out an investigation and evaluation work. The keeper of the seals and I will then examine, in all humility, the mission report she has given. Of course, if this report reveals that the law has not been effective in meeting the objective set and that there are corrections to be made to the legislative system, we will come back to parliamentarians to change the law and make it more effective. At this stage, in any case, there is no reason to say or believe that the law would not be sufficiently effective. I therefore suggest that we await the submission of the report. It is necessary to have this setback in order to have a true, objective evaluation of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u337	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u338	As no one knows, the President of the Republic declared equality between women and men "a great cause of the quinquennium". However, every year more than 93,000 women report having been victims of rape or attempted rape. In 90 per cent of cases, the victim knows his attacker. Faced with this phenomenon, revolting for a society such as ours and for a country such as France, the Government intended to strengthen the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, as evidenced by the law so called, promulgated on 3 August. Despite this, hundreds of women continue to live in unsustainable situations. On April 21, just to mention this story, a woman was hit in the subway. She was alone and found herself helpless. She shared it on social media. As a result, a movement was born: "Turn your subway". It allows women to share traumatic experiences in public transport. In these places, while acting in the eyes of all, the aggressor does not feel any discomfort; Surprisingly, he feels unreachable. Witnesses of this type of event, bewildered, do not know how to react. Should we intervene? Few do. Many more people prefer to film and publish the video on the internet. Of course, it is never easy to react in this kind of situation, especially since we sometimes fear becoming a collateral victim. However, in a country like ours, we cannot, we must not allow such people to act with impunity. An awareness campaign entitled "Reaction can change everything" was launched in 2018. We believe that she is going in the right direction. This effort must be prolonged, for the well-being of all. We need to change behaviour, relearn civics and mutual aid, mobilize the whole of French society, so that everyone feels concerned, whether they are relatives, family, friends, colleagues or simply anonymous. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to know the priorities and concrete actions of the Government in the process of raising awareness among our fellow citizens on these sensitive and urgent issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u339	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u340	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u341	Thank you for your question, Mrs Petit. We have focused a lot on "after," that is condemnation, but the issue of prevention and awareness is just as important, you are absolutely right. There is often a tendency to focus on what is not fast enough. In this case, I would like to highlight the progress of verbalization for gender-based contempt. A few years ago, as I recall, the issue of street harassment was not on the agenda and the terms "street harassment" were hardly used. Thanks to the involvement of a number of committed individuals, including feminists, this phenomenon has begun to be described. The government to which I belong is the first to have carried out proactive public policies to combat street harassment, and this majority is the first to have adopted very concrete measures to this end at national level. We can be proud of it collectively. You are right to stress the importance of awareness. Since 2001, the Act provides that three sessions of education on emotional and sexual life are given in schools, but they have not really been held until this year. Ms Boyer stated earlier that there was a sacred union in the old world on the issue of equality between women and men. I don't believe it. Had there not been any political opposition, these sessions would have been held. Jean-Michel Blanquer had the courage to maintain them. This year, for the first time, all schoolchildren, college students and high school students will be trained on this issue. In addition, the future universal national service will include a component dedicated to promoting gender equality and raising awareness of stereotypes and gender-based and sexual violence. Within this framework, a whole generation will be trained on these issues, which will promote a change of mentality. Finally, the campaign you mentioned, which corresponds to a commitment of 4 million euros decided by the Prime Minister, will be renewed, with another theme. A new campaign against gender-based and sexual violence will therefore be launched during this second year of the great cause of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u342	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u343	Last week, the UN Security Council adopted a resolution on sexual violence in conflict, amputated with the mention of the right to abortion for victims of rape. This revolting vote reminds us, if necessary, that women's rights must be defended unabated and that, unfortunately, they are still under threat. The law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence was expected. It has been a step forward for women in our country, thanks in particular to the extension of the statute of limitations. However, as I said in the legislative debate, we should have gone further to better protect the victims, like little Sarah and so many others. It is inconceivable that in France, a country of human rights, the perpetrator of the rape of a child may plead the consent of the minor, who is more than 13 years of age. We let the trial play around the appearance of the child, while he should have focused on the predator. I tell you again, Madam Keeper of the Seals, we cannot accept silently that more than 80% of rapes and sexual assaults are committed against minors and that more than half are committed against children under the age of 11. We can no longer accept that out of 25,000 complaints and reports of rape or sexual assault against minors, there are only 400 convictions for rape. It is imperative that we combine an age threshold with a presumption of coercion and be intransigent by transferring the burden of proof on the aggressor, so as never to question the consent of the child again. I'm sorry for the redundant nature of my question, which comes at the end of a long series, but are you going to reopen this project?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u344	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u345	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u346	Once again, I understand your emotion, but it is difficult to reopen this project nine months after the adoption of a law, not because Parliament has no right to do so – having voted on a text, it may well decide to amend it some time later – but because it would be more reasonable to take stock after a year, as Alexandra Louis will do, before considering another hypothesis. Why did we end up with the solution that you denounce as unsatisfactory? Constitutional difficulties have been pointed out not only by the Government, but also by the Council of State, which has put forward very fair arguments. Creating a 13-year-old presumption, as we first thought, could pose a real constitutional problem, since there is no presumption in criminal matters. A change in the elements of rape – that was another possibility – would have created a constitutional difficulty, as there cannot be different characteristics of rape. Finally, the non-retroactivity of the criminal law would have prevented us from applying the provisions that we wanted to have adopted in the current cases – I think I told Mrs Auconia earlier. For all these reasons, we have preferred the interpretative provision, which specifies the notions of coercion and surprise in case of sexual assault on a child under the age of 15, and which is immediately applicable. I sincerely believe that judges can retain these elements in order to make their decision easier. If you add to it all the provisions that I have already mentioned, particularly concerning departmental criminal courts, I think we can achieve a more satisfactory result.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u347	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u348	Last August, by adopting the law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, we created a new violation in French criminal law: gender-based outrage. As the working group on the verbalization of street harassment had indicated in its preparatory report, legislative intervention was essential in order to stem the strong sense of insecurity women experience in the public space. Indeed, out of a hundred women interviewed by INED in 2015, twenty reported having been whistled or arrested, eight were insulted and three were followed on the street in the 12 months preceding the survey. In the face of this unsustainable finding, our working group stressed the need to distinguish between different forms of gender-based and sexual violence. While the creation of a gender-based contempt offence is undeniably in the right direction to combat intolerable violence against women, it must in no way lead to the requalification of more serious criminal acts as contraventions. Ms. Schiappa said that since the passing of the law, 447 violations of gender-based contempt had been established. This is a sign of the effectiveness of the new contravention, and I welcome it. I congratulate the police on their work. However, some associations still express concerns about possible requalifications. In particular, they fear the disappearance of convictions for sexual assault within a few years. Such requalifications, which would obviously be tragic and regrettable, would not be in line with the law we have passed. They would minimize the nature of the violence and the sanctions that could be imposed on the perpetrator. They would also constitute a denial of recognition of victims. What measures had the Government planned to avoid that risk? In addition, are specific trainings regularly provided to law enforcement officials to sensitize them throughout their professional careers on the different criminal qualifications for sexual and gender-based violence?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u349	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u350	Your question gives me the opportunity to welcome your participation in the working group preparatory to this law to define gender-based outrage and to work towards the verbalization of street harassment. The question you have just asked has accompanied us during the examination of the text and continues to do so. I can assure you: at this stage, there is no declassification of criminal acts into contraventions, no degradation of the qualification. In several cases, the judges even decided to convict an individual for sexual assault, assault, or public insult, and also to verbalize or add a gender-based contempt qualification. This does not, therefore, degrade the qualification: it is added to it. I recall that the September 3, 2018 circular of the Guard of the Seals to introduce the law clearly states that "the classification of sexist contempt should be used only if the facts cannot be the subject of any other more severe criminal qualification". Staff training is ongoing. We've already started it. Last week, I was in Marseille, with the Prefect des Bouches-du-Rhône, to participate in a full day of training for both law enforcement and sworn agents, in connection with an association, the Information Centre for Women's and Families' Rights. We need to help staff better understand the continuum of gender-based and sexual violence, gender-based stigma, and the implications and consequences of street harassment on women's lives, so that they understand the importance of verbalizing street harassment. We will continue to do so, so that the number of tickets, far from stagnating to 447, increases exponentially.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u351	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u352	From 5 to 7 April 2019 the first national meetings of violence against girls and women in the overseas regions took place in Paris. The preamble to these meetings recalls that 220,000 women between the ages of 18 and 75 are victims of serious physical and sexual violence and that, according to the study carried out by the EESC in 2017 and handed over to the Government, violence against girls and women is more widespread overseas than in Hexagonia. The Virage investigation on violence and gender relations, which I had supported as Minister of Overseas Affairs, confirmed in March 2019 this considerable gap between Réunion or the other DOM and Hexagon. The law strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence provides for the Government to provide us with a report on local mechanisms to support the mobility of victims of sexual violence. How and where have these mechanisms been implemented? At La Réunion, the departmental council and the State had agreed last year to co-finance, for example, two additional social assistants under a victim mobility scheme. While the community has fulfilled its commitment, the state has not been on the rendezvous. Ten reunited parliamentarians called on you, Madam Secretary of State. We would like to know your decision on this remarkable service, which helped to accompany more than 400 women last year. These mobility devices can only exist with a perennial associative fabric. However, we regret the lack of transparency on the means allocated by the State to each of the territories. Some associations even tell us that their subsidies have decreased. How can I explain it? However, this fact has been pointed out by many colleagues since the beginning of the session. We are the faithful spokespersons of our associations. You have to hear it. In fact, the situation is not working out. To corroborate my remarks, I note that violence against women in Reunion has increased by 14 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u353	Thank you for closing, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u354	I'm finishing, Madam President. Transparency is important. When will we know the exact distribution of human and financial resources deployed in the territories in an interdepartmental manner, which would allow us to define a strategic approach?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u355	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u356	I share your observation and your feeling that the situation in the overseas departments is urgent. Let's start with the end of your inquiry. You ask us to take into account the specificities of each territory in our public policy to combat gender-based and sexual violence. This approach, which we are trying to adopt, will be reinforced by the new provisions proposed by Mrs La Garde des Seales. For the rest, I do not have in mind the file you are quoting, which I invite you to transmit to us. If the State is committed to providing funding, it will of course be able to speak. In the event that a defect appears in this area, at any level, we could remedy it. If we ask parliamentarians to send us their questions in advance, it is in order to prepare the answers and provide them with accurate information, when they travel late to question the Government. As soon as you have sent me the file, I will reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u357	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u358	At the end of the sitting, my question will bring nothing new. The figures we all know are overwhelming: 43 per cent of sexual violence occurs within the family, 81 per cent of victims are minors, 91 per cent are assaulted by relatives. Paediatric admissions for children under 6 years of age are increasing and the invisibility often induced by an incestual climate covers many sexual assaults. Finally, 20% of an age group is affected by this infernal problem, which affects all walks of life in our society. Despite a slight increase in the number of complaints of sexual assault on minors in 2017, the omerta that still reigns is dramatic. The law of silence imposed most often by the aggressor has many causes: a speech that blames the victim by invoking the endangerment of the family balance, the violence insufficiently denounced by other family members and underestimated by the entourage, the difficulties for adults to imagine the unimaginable and for children to understand what is happening to them, and especially – as has been said – the psychological mechanism of traumatic amnesia of defense that allows these children and adolescents to survive. The descent of the perpetrators of crimes against the victims is heavy and lies in the question of the moral or physical coercion imposed by an adult on a minor, in connection with the consent or non-consent. During the discussion of the law, we denounced your decision to bury the presumption of non-consent. It is always the victim who must provide proof of his or her non-consent; It is then up to the judge to assess his ability to discern and his degree of vulnerability. This situation is unbearable for minors under the age of 15. The rate of complaints remains too low. What are the recent figures on these issues? How can we get a real picture of this scourge, while the collection of children's words remains so delicate? Do you have any figures on recidivism, while the automatic entry in the sex offender file has been removed from the law? We know that the younger the children, the more destructive the impact of this violence. There is therefore an urgent need for more training for professionals and adults so that they can detect signs of abuse. Tools must be developed and training opened up to associations working in schools in order to improve the collection of speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u359	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u360	What tools do you intend to put in place to detect violence and better take into account its consequences for the mental, psychological and physical health of the victims?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u361	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u362	Thank you for your question. I too, if I had had it earlier, I might have been able to give you some figures, which I don't have in front of me. You refer to the very painful question of incest, which you describe as invisible. This is indeed one of the difficulties we face. I'll remind you of two things. On the one hand, the law we are talking about today provides for overqualification in case of incest. It therefore recognizes a painful particularity, which deserves – this is an important point – to be criminally punished. On the other hand, the communication campaigns we have launched, which Mrs Schiappa and I have already mentioned, are aimed at freeing up the floor on these issues and giving victims the strength to lodge complaints. I will not mention at this stage all the mechanisms that we wish to develop, particularly in the area of support and training, to facilitate the lodging of the complaint. A set of elements make it possible to take into account what is happening in families. It is true that domestic violence is the most painful. They are extremely frequent. That is why we are absolutely determined to fight them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u363	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor on the last question.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u364	Named a major cause of the quinquennium, the fight against gender-based and sexual violence was a great deal of ink last year. And because of this: even today, a woman dies under the blows of her spouse every three days. Less visible but equally alarming, the feeling of insecurity among women in France is increasing. According to a 2017 survey, 65% of women in Île-de-France feel insecure, especially in public transport. That's right, nobody's safe. But to put it clearly, there are places in France, neighbourhoods where such violence is almost commonplace – and I am not just talking about derogatory remarks or methods of dragging a little too heavy. I'm thinking about those streets where it's not safe to pass when you're a woman. I am thinking of those cafes where, once, everyone, man or woman, could sit at the counter or sit on the terrace for a drink. Today, some neighbourhoods are more like Islamic enclaves where women are not tolerated. In 2016, the Secretary of State for Women's Rights, Pascale Boistard, had dared to say: "There are areas in our territory where women are not accepted. This finding is not limited to the suburbs of Île-de-France. We are experiencing this situation in Béziers, as far as the city centre. Madam Secretary of State, we are far from your statement last summer! You said: "The laws of the Republic protect women, they apply at any time and anywhere. » My question is simple: has this law, which you presented as a remedy for all our ills, changed anything, in concrete terms, to the situation of women in neighbourhoods where they still cannot sit on a coffee terrace, where they are mocked, offended, when they are not insulted?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u365	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u366	There are no figures to support the idea that there would be more street harassment, sexual violence or rape in one neighbourhood than in another. The data on gender-based and sexual violence show that rape and sexual assault are, in most cases, committed by a person known to the victim, or even by a member of the family. You act as if the assertion that "the laws of the Republic apply at any time and anywhere" were contradictory to the statement you make. I believe that every one of us tonight could say this sentence: the laws of the Republic apply at any time, anywhere, for all women. I do not know anyone in this House who would consider that some or some should be excluded from the application of the common law. You know very well, Madam Member, that this is the profound meaning of my commitment, and that I strongly defend universalist positions. Contrary to what you are trying to tell me, the laws of the Republic must apply at all times, everywhere, for all women. Since the creation of this offence, street harassment has resulted in a total of 447 fines. We are very committed to improving the situation of women in all neighbourhoods. As I said earlier, I was recently in the northern districts of Marseilles, with the forces of law and order, in order to ensure – including in the most difficult neighbourhoods, those we have called "reconquer republican districts" – that women and men can share a common space of work, leisure and transport. That is the purpose of all the action of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u367	We have completed the questions on the implementation of the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-04-29-O1216.u368	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Government statement on the draft stability programme 2019-2023, followed by a debate and a vote, pursuant to article 50-1 of the Constitution. The meeting is adjourned.
