ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020 (No. 2296, 2340, 2314).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u2	Last night, the Assembly began the discussion of the clauses in Part Two of the bill, concerning the provisions relating to the year 2019, and ended in Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u3	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u4	This is a point of order on the basis of Article 58(5). While we are in the midst of a debate on the Social Security Financing Bill – PLFSS –, the Minister of Solidarity and Health announced this morning, in a television interview, that she will present a support plan for the public hospital in November, the funds of which will not be discussed by Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] I ask for a suspension of the meeting so that the Government can give us a brief outline of this new plan for the hospital. The Ministry of Health cannot be just a ministry of speech. As for Parliament, it is neither a mat nor a godillot. We have the right, as we discuss the PLFSS, to be fully informed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u5	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u6	I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to excuse the Minister of Solidarity and Health for the slight delay with which she will be joining us. Our discussion today will focus on revenue and interest items, but of course the minister will answer your questions as soon as she is with us. However, it seems to me, Mr President, that she spoke yesterday in the gallery about the work she is doing on the public hospital – the rapporteur-general welcomed this, as did other Members. It will have the opportunity, during the discussion of the very many articles and amendments that we are going to discuss, or even before, to go back to what it has said this morning. It is not for the Government to intervene in the conduct of the debates in the National Assembly, but we will of course be at your disposal as soon as the Minister arrives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u7	Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u8	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u9	Article 4 concerns the adjustment of the threshold for triggering the safeguard clause applicable to reimbursable medicinal products. This technical provision is symptomatic of the trajectory of our pharmaceutical industry. Drug sales declined for the first time in 2018, with inevitable economic consequences for the pharmaceutical industry. This article, which provides for a welcome and necessary corrective mechanism, reveals the limitations of the mechanism introduced a few years ago. During the debate, we will come back to drugs and pharmaceuticals, but I would like to point out now that the Prime Minister made commitments and announcements at the Health Industries Strategic Council. The situation of the pharmaceutical industry raises a number of issues. There was a time when France was a leader in this strategic sector, which gave rise to value and placed us at the forefront of innovation, technology and therefore created jobs. The pharmaceutical industry then allowed us to credit our trade balance. Unfortunately, it must be noted that, for years, the one that was once one of the flagships of our economy has continued to decline. That is why I wanted to question the Government. Beyond the issue of the shortage of medicines and their distribution in pharmacies, the situation of the pharmaceutical industry is an important and difficult subject, which we have to take action on and which we have to deal with outside of some of the technical provisions of the PLFSS. Finally, I share Jean-Carles Grelier's comments on the media announcements that the minister made this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u10	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u11	This 60 million euro tax gift offered suddenly to pharmaceutical laboratories is to say the least surprising in the current national context! Since the Minister is proposing a support plan for the public hospital and this plan will require additional resources, would it not be wise to take these 60 million back to the hospitals rather than offer them to the laboratories, which do not need them first? We do not deny that the distribution and shortage of medicines cause difficulties, but it would have been better to avoid giving such a amount in the negotiation, in a somewhat light way, when there is a lack of money everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u12	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u13	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to continue the discussion opened by Jean-Carles Grelier. You tell us, minister, that we can resume it later, but if a new plan is committed to the hospital, it would be good if we could talk about it as revenue – I am as attached to it as you are. The EUR 60 million that has just been mentioned will not be enough to deal with the crisis in the hospital. However, if the general economy of the PLFSS were to be changed to remedy a situation that we have both highlighted for two days, it would be good if Members were to be informed as soon as possible. This would obviously change the nature of the discussion. It is said that everything comes to the point for who knows how to wait, but, for my part, I have waited a lot. A slight burning smell is beginning to make itself felt. It's time we made the right decisions for the public hospital!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u15	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u16	The La France insoumise Group wishes Article 4 to be deleted. Indeed, in order for France no longer to depend on foreign powers in the field of medicinal products, for it to regain a form of independence and develop innovation in this field in its own way, it is urgent to establish a public centre for medicinal products, independent of the industrial powers and which would also enable it to cope with the shortage of certain medicinal products. That is in any case our proposal. Our assembly discussed at length last night the link between the PLFSS and the situation of the public hospital, and Jean-Carles Grelier reopened the debate with his point of order. I observe, for my part, that it is probably to better pass the pill of the PLFSS that some ads are postponed to later... Because the expectations of hospital staff with regard to this text are strong. It calls for a mobilization next Tuesday, on the day of the vote. How could Members vote on the PLFSS without knowing exactly what measures will be announced by the Minister for Solidarity and Health in November, after the vote on the text? It is necessary for national representation to know what it is about! We cannot content ourselves with media announcements on possible future measures, which will only be specified after the discussion of the PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u18	I have before me three deletion amendments, Nos 539, 607 and 820. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 539.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u19	As Adrien Quatennens said, our group is opposed to Article 4. The pharmaceutical industry and its leaders are doing well. Despite a declining salary, Olivier Brandicourt remains one of the best paid bosses of CAC 40. Bastamag media reports that in 2018, Sanofi Group paid its shareholders close to €5 billion in dividends and share buybacks, representing 114% of its profits! Again this year, dividends are on the rise. But Sanofi is much more focused on the remuneration of its shareholders than on R&amp;D – research and development – new products. Despite growing turnover, the company has dismissed 1,800 employees for about ten years. In 2019, several hundred job losses were made in support functions, in sales and, once again, in R&amp;D. This policy, which is largely focused on the remuneration of shareholders, weighs heavily on the company's innovation and employment capacities. It would be wise for our assembly to ask the industrialists to reconsider their ambitions. Recall that Sanofi's benefits, like those of the pharmaceutical industry, are partly derived from public funds dedicated to health and social security. In 2017, the Sanofi laboratory received 561 million French health insurance refunds. It is not up to our health care system to increase the margins of laboratories and their R&amp;D budget, but rather to the shareholders to moderate their appetites, if they do not want to kill what they use as a golden egg hen. The amendment proposes the deletion of Article 4, which does not set out in sufficient detail the contributions of laboratories to social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u20	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 607.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u21	With article 4, the Government increases the rate from which the contribution due from the drug companies is triggered. This measure, which follows a commitment by the Government to the drug industry, is motivated, we are told, by the fact that, after several years of growth, their turnover fell in 2018, which, in 2019, leads to a lower revenue of 60 million euros for social security. We consider this gift to be completely unjustified at a time when certain companies in the drug industry, which are financially healthy, are liberalizing massively. A few days ago I met representatives of the Sanofi Group's inter-union group, which recorded a net profit of €6 billion in 2018. However, management has just announced a 300-position social plan, which will mainly affect R&amp;D: a disinvestment would appear to be committed in the field of cardiovascular, Alzheimer's and infectious diseases, to the benefit of more lucrative areas. This is obviously very problematic. The only possible answer is, in my opinion, the establishment of a public drug centre. Unfortunately, such a prospect seems far from the Government's intentions. We do not understand why we think it is necessary today to do without this EUR 60 million. Who needs it most: the public hospital, social welfare or Sanofi and his friends?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u22	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 820.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u23	To offer 60 million to the drug industry is to send a very bad signal to hospital and emergency personnel. Better keep that money and use it where it's really needed. The measure provided for in Article 4 is not welcome and comes at a very bad time. There were other ways to address the issue of drug shortages in pharmacies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u24	Mr Olivier Véran, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u25	Last year, we adopted a mechanism, the M rate, which projected an increase of up to 0.5% in the pharmaceutical industry's turnover, based on that of 2018. But it was lower than expected and, if we had not changed anything, the rate would have exploded and the pharmaceutical industry would have been forced to pay the state a much larger sum than Parliament had wanted. Because we are committed to translating into reality what we are voting for when we look at the Social Security Financing Bill, we are against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u26	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u27	These amendments aim to remove the increase of the safeguard clause to 1% this year. This change is related to the fact that the pharmaceutical industry's turnover decreased in 2018, which had not happened in several years.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u28	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u29	What is at stake is the attractiveness of France for an industry that we need for our patients, especially today where drug shortages pose a public health problem and where we need to relocate the pharmaceutical industry. Parliamentarians who regularly ask us to take action to meet these challenges cannot call for measures that follow a logic totally opposite to that one. We revised the parameters of regulation in 2019 in response to the decline in turnover and the need to attract industrialists so that we can effectively combat drug shortages. As a result, the Government has decided to grant exceptional flexibility for 2019, bringing the safeguard clause from 0.5% to 1% of turnover. This is an exceptional measure due to the very bad year 2018 in terms of turnover. In 2020, therefore, the safeguard clause will be triggered again logically from a level of turnover growth of 0.5%. I am against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u30	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u31	I come back to the example of Sanofi – I know that it is not the only company concerned, but I have figures about it. In the coming year, Sanofi will not only benefit from part of the EUR 60 million we are talking about; The company will also benefit from the research tax credit and the CICE, the competitiveness and employment tax credit. Over the past year, EUR 130 million has been paid to the Commission for this dual purpose. All that we are adopting today therefore comes in addition to the aid that the companies concerned have already received. Minister, you say this is a measure of "exceptional flexibility." I have no reason to doubt your willingness to restore a rate of 0.5% next year, but we have already found, PLFSS after PLFSS, that when exemptions are put in place, it is difficult to go back on it. I'm insisting on this pitfall. What is most problematic, however, is that this exceptional relaxation is granted unconditionally. I am not in favour of such a measure, but if we were to adopt it, at the very least we would have to demand that the companies concerned stop disinvesting in research and development and, for example, that the 300 jobs Sanofi is threatening to eliminate will not be eliminated in the coming year. We cannot continue to make an exemption policy without looking at the policies of those who benefit from it. The relocation you're talking about will not be up to date with the measure you're proposing – at least one company in the sector has already announced it. I think this is really not the right lever if we want to relocate the production of medicines, which, you are right, is necessary. We need to act and I propose that we really work on it. I put on the table a proposal to create a public drug hub. We could no doubt aggregate a number of laboratories to form a force of strike, to influence the policies implemented by large companies, and to play a much more active role, in any case from the point of view of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u32	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u33	I was going to say the same thing as Mr. Dharréville. For their part, what is the commitment of laboratories that will benefit from the Government's measure? It seems to me that the time is wrong. Minister, there's gonna be a plan for the hospital. If you lack the means to meet the needs of hospitals and emergencies, we might have been able to dispense with the expense of this measure. It seems to me that this money would be very useful elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u34	I call Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo to support Amendment No. 867.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u35	I am sorry that I do not have the same speech as those of my colleagues who spoke before me: of course, we need a plan for the hospital, but we also need a plan for the medicine. In France, the drug industry is going badly, even very badly. Mr Dharréville, do not look at things by the prism alone of Sanofi's profits. This is not the way to analyze the drug industry. As I said last year, if we look at the chain back and forth, things are going wrong: it started with the closure of pharmacies, it continued with the poorly developed wholesalers-partitioners, and it has now reached the pharmaceutical industry. There was an urgent need to take action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u37	The one proposed to us in your text is minimal; I propose to supplement it with my amendment. We need a plan for the hospital, no one here can deny it; There is also a need for a plan for the drug industry. I stress that I am talking about the drug industry, not the pharmaceutical industry. We've been at the bone for some time; Today, we're at the bone marrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u38	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u39	Unfavorable opinion. Some suggested a lower M rate; you now want the same rate to be higher. Perhaps this means that we have found a position of balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u40	It just means you're starting to understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u41	You are right to recall the effort that has been demanded of the pharmaceutical industry in our country. For next year alone, we are going to vote for a savings of EUR 920 million, which shows that a continuous effort is required for this industry. At the same time, the agreement of the CISC, the Strategic Council of the Health Industries, signed by the industrial partners, under the auspices of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health, includes various reforms. We will have to look at some of these within the framework of this PLFSS, in particular the one relating to the efforts made in the project to combat the shortage of medicines. In the coming years, we may be able to reason in euros rather than as a percentage of M rate change.This would avoid having to make "rebases" taking into account the previous year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u42	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u43	Unfavorable opinion. The situation is complex: it is very difficult to regulate things by the M rate alone by raising or lowering it. This does not meet the specific needs of fostering innovation and tackling shortages. Mr Dharréville, you asked me about the counterpart to the measure we are proposing to adopt. Please be aware that we are putting in place much stronger regulation on the issue of drug shortages, including sanctions and risk management plans to measure industrial engagement. There is indeed a form of counterpart to this measure, the terms of which are not in the PLFSS, but in the negotiations that we conduct on a daily basis with the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to the public pole, which has been one of your battle horses for a long time, I would remind you that the Prime Minister has entrusted Mr Jacques Biot with a mission to find the financial levers to produce medicines that are too old, uninteresting or difficult to produce at industrial level. Mr. Biot is thinking about creating a form of public drug hub. It is certainly not about replacing the pharmaceutical industry – we need its creativity and innovation. Rather, it is a matter of compensating for the abandonment of certain products which are no longer financially attractive, products which French patients need. This mission is under way. These questions are on the table. I would remind you that this year we are proposing €920 million in lower prices for the drug industry. It's a big deal. I think that we have found the right balance to meet the need to save on the price of medicines while preserving an industrial sector which was largely weakened last year by the drop in its turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u44	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u45	Don't worry, Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo, we know that there are pharmaceutical companies that play the game, and if we often talk about the same laboratory, it's because we have a lot of information about it. Minister, you're saying that you're asking the labs a lot more and that you're going to frame their action. As you are particularly invested in this subject, you have understood that we are trying to frame some laboratories – I am thinking of the difficulties encountered, for example, with the Dépakine affair – and they do not want to hear a reason. You have the will to act, but let's face it: big pharmaceutical companies do a little bit of what they want. Our whole problem is here. We know the case of a CEO, announcing redundancies in his research centres, who replied to the employees who questioned him about his use of the CICE, that the CICE line of his budget was anecdotal, while he spoke of more than 100 million euros. We can recognize that not everyone behaves like this, but you also need to hear that some large laboratories are playing a role in transferring government money to shareholders rather than relying on research and development funds. We're worried about that. We cannot silence those who benefit from the situation. We are also in favour of creating a public drug centre, because we are aware that we lack pharmacists. Some people have to travel long distances to find one. Nor is the situation obvious to the dispatchers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u46	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u47	The issue of the pharmaceutical industry is important. It represents more than 100,000 jobs in France, located in all regions of the country. We are very happy to have pharmaceutical industries. Unfortunately, for several years, with arroguties accounting, these companies have been punctured to the bone. While foreign companies no longer come to France, the remarkable French companies, such as Sanofi, Sandoz, Pierre Fabre, Servier – whatever the problems of this laboratory – begin to go abroad. Medicines are now produced outside the country, much more than in France. In 2018, savings on the medication item were undervalued by 400 million euros: the money was not returned to the laboratories that requested it. This is the sense of their desire to see the M rate rise. Be careful, there is a danger that French companies in the sector will gradually move abroad! I believe Sanofi, who has just opened a factory in Boston, will hold a board of directors abroad for the first time. That would still be regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u48	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u49	Mr General, I find it quite inappropriate to refer to the agreements reached by the CISC in 2018 and to the commitments made by the Government. You are aware that the Prime Minister himself had then committed himself to an increase in the prices of medicines of 0.5% per year for three years, before the Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie made a "over-economy" of 450 million euros in 2018, so that, after the three years in question, the prices of medicines in France will have returned to their level in 2017! This cannot be acceptable, and it reinforces Mrs Firmin Le Bodo's remarks. I take this opportunity to take advantage of the fact that the Minister of Solidarity and Health has come to tell her that, at the beginning of the sitting, I made a point of order concerning her. Madam Minister, we believe that the comments you made this morning on a television channel to announce the launch of a plan for the hospital next November, that is, after the current debate on the PLFSS, are a rather bad way in Parliament. It is not very respectful of the debates in this House to make this announcement, even though yesterday you did not give any details about it in your speech. I was asking for a suspension of the session so that you could expose to the national representation what your orientations for the hospital will be. The crisis in the hospital did not date from yesterday or even the day before yesterday: it dates back several months. You could perfectly have informed the national representative of your plans for the hospital plan announced this morning before the review of the PLFSS began or as part of this review.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u50	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u51	Several of our colleagues who spoke on Article 4 wanted us to have a real plan for the medicine. Chiche: Let's go, and create a public center for the medicine. I would like some clarification on the contours you would give her, minister. For us, it should achieve several objectives: first, to allow us to benefit independently from substantial resources; then be entirely free of economic interests and those of the pharmaceutical industries; Finally, to ensure the availability of safe health products in the context of the reported shortage. I would also like to join Mr Grelier in moving and astonishing me that you still have measures in your place for the public hospital – and perhaps to be pleased with them, provided you are able to know the details, which would be of great interest to us at this stage and given the stakes of our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u52	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u53	I share the interest of my colleagues in the measures that have been announced by the Minister: we could decide this together here; It would not seem to me to be alien to our responsibilities... I hope we will know more in a moment. I will be very attentive to the conclusions of Jacques Biot's mission. We will support sequestration measures designed to avoid the shortage of certain medicines: they are in the right direction. However, the problem remains the targeting and differentiation of enterprises in the sector in the distribution of aid. A few figures, again: Sanofi – which, once again, is not the only company concerned, but which benefits from all the arrangements in force – distributed this year €3.8 billion of dividends, which is considerable, and made 1.3 billion share buybacks to its shareholders, while announcing the elimination of 300 jobs – there have been a total of 3,500 since 2006. These figures should lead national representation to question: they confirm that there is a problem. I want not all companies to be housed in the same brand, but the devices we are implementing must take into account the diversity of situations. In addition, some large companies risk focusing on the most lucrative and profitable activities – oncology, immuno-oncology – leaving behind a whole section of the research and even the production that we need to ensure health security. Another example: the company Famar, near Lyon, decided to close a laboratory that produced medicines. The economic conditions under which this decision was made could be discussed. But a public focus on the drug might also be interested in existing tools that face difficulties in their use. The mere existence of such a pole could help to clean up the market and practices of several industrialists in the sector. There is therefore a need for comprehensive and in-depth reflection on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u54	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u55	Minister, I wrote to you in December 2017 about drug shortages; We also exchanged with your Secretary of State, and I again questioned the Prime Minister on 19 June during questions to the Government. Three weeks later, you announced a plan that I welcome, as well as the appointment of Jacques Biot to shed light on what is like a true maquis. We had tabled amendments to Article 4 which unfortunately were not accepted for the sitting. One of them tended to vary the M rate depending on whether or not the laboratory was affected by drug shortages. Indeed, if we can consider that laboratories that have made efforts to avoid the shortage would deserve to benefit from the 1.01 coefficient you are proposing, the same is not true of others. I am thinking in particular of cortisone, a medicine that is not expected to suffer a shortage in a country like France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u56	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u57	Perhaps a distinction should be made by medication. In any case, the establishment of a differentiated M rate would show that the public authority retains control over regulation: from this point of view, it is not in its role if the rate increases for everyone, good and bad pupils combined.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u58	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u59	Our discussion shows that the problem is multifactorial and affects the entire drug chain. I could endorse the proposal that has just been formulated to penalise laboratories that have experienced shortages; except that, in the case of cortisone, no laboratory could supply it because it was the raw material that was missing – but it is another problem. Madam Minister, I cannot allow you to justify your position by the savings of some 900 million euros in other ways: if we are here today, that is precisely because we have been weighing 50% of the savings on a sector that accounts for only 12% of expenditure for years. Perhaps, as my colleagues who sit to the left of the Chamber suggest, the pharmaceutical industry has had more relays than wholesalers or pharmacists to defend its interests. But it is the whole drug chain that is ill, because it has been making a disproportionate contribution to the savings achieved for years. I repeat, we're in the bone!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u60	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u61	I will of course vote for Mrs Firmin Le Bodo's amendment, because the situation in our pharmaceutical industry is indeed very worrying, and the flight of our companies abroad, mentioned a few moments ago by Jean-Pierre Door, unfortunately becomes a reality when this industry was part of our flagships. Since you referred to the Biot mission, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to express my astonishment, which is not new, with regard to how you proceed. In July, you did – about the drug, it's true – announcements called the severity of the shortage. In this regard, I agree with what has been said about cortisone; I have received nephrologists who are very concerned about the consequences of the situation on the follow-up of organ transplants. However, as early as July, you yourself met with the representatives of the various laboratories to find, in coordination with them, the best solutions to the problem. I know there's an emergency; But finally, when we started a consultation, in principle, we expect the results. Now, Article 34 of the PLFSS, whose effects on the situation of shortage appear to me to be doubtful, is completely imposed upon us, while the consultation process is not at all complete. Without anticipating the debates that we will have in the coming days, I find it difficult to understand this way of doing things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u62	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u63	Mr Grelier, there were no announcements this morning: I said nothing other than what I said yesterday in my introductory speech at the rostrum of this House,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u64	That's not what's in the press!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u65	...that I have been concerned about the situation of the public hospital since I arrived at the ministry; that the plan "my health 2022" that I launched includes measures for the hospital, including the gradation of care, the reaffirmation of the need to maintain community hospitals – you will vote for their specific pricing within the framework of this PLFSS – and the discharge of certain tasks in the hospital through a better structuring of city medicine. You know all this; We have discussed this at length here. However, given the urgency of the situation, the positive effects of this plan on the hospital are not felt quickly enough to satisfy the professionals working there. I have therefore also indicated that in September I made a first series of announcements on the restructuring of emergencies in order to discharge them, both upstream and downstream, and to allocate a €750 million envelope to recruit staff, particularly for emergencies, upstream and downstream. I then made it clear that I was working on three areas: how better to reinvest in the hospital – in terms of the current investment, in equipment, the one that makes the lives of professionals more comfortable; how to better value the beginnings of careers and make the public hospital attractive – because if you close many beds, it is not by virtue of a ministerial decision, but by lack of staff; Finally, how to sustain budgets so that the hospital is not subject to an excess of annual fluctuations. I repeat, I have said nothing other than what I had said in the rostrum; Simply, I may have said it in other words, because I was speaking on a mainstream program. At present I am working, I am continuing the dialogue, and parliamentarians will obviously be involved in everything that, if necessary, concerns the budgetary aspects. Mr Quatennens, as far as the public pole is concerned, I think we are not quite talking about the same thing. Let us guard against any fantasies in this area: there is no question of the nationalization of the drug industry. The sector needs reactivity, innovation, industrialists doing research; But the state is obviously not in a position to replace the drug industry to innovate. On the other hand, it is necessary to compensate for certain defects in the production chain, particularly when manufacturers abandon a medicine. But be careful: the more we invest in a public hub, the more we will expose ourselves to the risk of proportional disinvestment of industrialists; The more we advocate such a pole, the more the state risks paying in their place. That is why I have commissioned Mr Biot to reflect on the issues of industrial production, on what the public centre of the medicine could be, on its perimeter, on its financing, all in order to avoid causing the industrialists, because they want to make up for defects, the easy reaction of stopping investing in the unprofitable medicines that we need. It's not easy, and we're all concerned about it. My role as Minister of Health is first of all to check that the French have access to essential medicines. The Prime Minister and I have therefore presented a plan to combat drug shortages that includes financial levers in the form of sanctions for industrialists. Such an approach seems to me to be much more useful than the other options mentioned, including differentiation according to the type of industry. In this regard, Mrs Rabault, the safeguard clause – the implementation of the M coefficient – is a protection clause which concerns all industrialists, proportionality with respect to turnover ensuring a form of differentiation. We are asking Mr Biot precisely to find incentives or, if necessary, sanctions. But it is not through this clause that your goal can be achieved. [[Ms. Valérie Rabault approved]] Finally, with regard to cortisone – the medicine that caused the most difficulties this year – the situation is complex: all the manufacturers who made it suddenly realized that they were purchasing from the same supplier of raw material, so that a problem affecting it spread to all of them. It is clear that, in such a case, sanctions are of no use. We are committed to what is a public health issue. Of course, we will inform parliamentarians of the progress that has been made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u66	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u67	Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, Article 5 presents a correction of the balance tables leading to an overall deficit of EUR 5.5 billion, with the Old Age Solidarity Fund increasing by EUR 500 million. Does this table include non-compensations for the yellow vest campaign exemptions? However, it is important to know whether these flows are included in the equilibrium tables.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u68	It's all registered!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u69	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u70	Article 67 presents ONDAM and corrected ONDAMs for 2019. I have tabled with my group an amendment, No 1439, containing a proposal which we have already made in committee, and I am pleased to see that other colleagues have taken it up. Indeed, we have not found in the figures provided to us any trace of the €750 million three-year emergency plan, i.e. an average of €250 million a year, with the redeployments of appropriations that you have announced. I asked the question last week to the rapporteur for an opinion of the Committee on Finance, who also did not have the answer. We would therefore like clarification on this point. If we do not find these 250 million euros in adventure, our amendment will immediately allow 300 million euros for emergencies. We have heard, Madam Minister, that in November you were going to present a plan for the hospital, but when 200 emergency services have been on strike since June, nothing can be done for this sector. These 300 million euros would be a first step, knowing that Joël Aviragnet and Boris Vallaud presented yesterday a more comprehensive hospital plan. You will of course reply that we have managed this amendment by taking 300 million under the heading 'Other support', but if parliamentarians had the opportunity not to use this type of technique, they would do otherwise. And I would remind you that you have the opportunity to raise the pledge if you wish. The Government responded last year to the urgency of the yellow vests; He must immediately respond to the emergency. That is the meaning of the amendment to the EUR 300 million. This strike movement really needs to have a translation in this PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u71	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u72	This article corrects ONDAM. Last year, it was set at 2.5% for 2019. It seems to have been respected, but the ONDAM Alert Committee would have mentioned an overrun of EUR 100 million, which would bring it to 2.6%. I think you are aware of her analysis, Madam Minister, since he delivered his conclusions about ten days ago. It would be interesting to know whether it was 2.5 per cent or 2.6 per cent, as the overexpenditure of $100 million was apparently related to overexpenditure in medical and social services. We can understand that, because we are all in favour of the development of this sector, but the question nevertheless deserves to be asked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u73	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u74	In the explanatory memorandum to article 6, the Government welcomes compliance with ONDAM for 2019 at 2.5%. This presentation, however, seems terrible when we know the concrete effects on the ground, their translation into the bodies, into the minds, into the daily lives of caregivers. Valérie Rabault has just recalled the 200 – 250 to be precise – emergency services on strike. The movement is now driven by an inter-hospital collective, that is, not only by emergencies, but by all the services of the hospitals, who cry for help and demand additional means to be able to work. This presentation, I repeat, is really terrible when we look at the reality of users and caregivers. In this context, every healthcare professional is encouraged to carry out acts as quickly as possible, in record time, while knowing that the overall remuneration of all hospitals will not move. This system can no longer last. Because of the damage committed in the name of this ONDAM and the crippling insufficiency of expenditure, in particular expenditure on health facilities, the La France insoumée group will obviously vote against this article. We know that there is no magic money, but when we propose compensation for exemptions so that the money comes as if by magic, you do not want it, minister, minister. Health in France is really sick. We have to treat her.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u75	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u76	The result of this ONDAM is partly in front of me: these are the 3000 signatures of a petition I mentioned yesterday about a hospital in my constituency, which the officers collected and which I will have the opportunity to hand over to you, Madam Minister. It is clear that the logic of ONDAM is now mortifying, that it is a logic of reducing health spending, with every year an extra screw trick. It is therefore not really an ONDAM, but an ONRAM, a national objective of restricting health insurance. At this stage, we must ask ourselves about the very philosophy behind these debates on the PLFSS and end this permanent gap between the naturally tendential increase in health spending – 4.5% this year – and the expenditure targets that are systematically below them. This leads to demands for considerable savings on investments in the health sector, which the system, particularly the public hospital, can no longer satisfy. We in the GDR Group cannot agree with this logic and believe that we need to loosen the stranglehold.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u77	I have before me four deletion amendments, Nos 545, 609, 1088 and 1186. I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 545.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u78	Our amendment proposes the deletion of an article which, in its explanatory memorandum, welcomes an ONDAM of 2.5%: it is not serious in the context that is known, extremely tense both in emergencies and in most hospital services, and marked by mobilization in more than 200 services, not to mention the housing establishments for dependent elderly people, the EHPADs. This text is therefore clearly inadequate for the situation in our country. In view of the demands of the hospital staff collectives involved, there is an immediate need for a substantial increase in the hospital budget. Professionals believe that it should be a minimum of 4% if one anticipates, in particular, the increase in expenditure in terms of care expenses and to retain ONDAM as a tool guiding the path of expenditure of health insurance. We have already told you, Madam Minister, that our group is in favour of abolishing ONDAM, because this index places an undue burden on health spending when it is necessary to emancipate health policy from a strictly accounting objective, that is to say, to remove hospital staff from the ever narrower pipe through which they are asked to pass when it is ever more unfeasible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u79	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 609.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u80	The proposal made in this article is not realistic: it is clear that the hospital no longer has the means to recruit, sometimes even to provide enough equipment to meet health needs and to invest in quality premises. Six out of ten hospitals are now in deficit. This means that more than half of hospitals are in difficulty working with suppliers. We are now deliberating on proposals that are already overtaken by reality. The reality will catch up with you and, in the coming months – perhaps in November, at least as soon as possible – you will have to go back to your proposals, which are insufficient. It would be better today to take stock of the situation and the crisis in the public hospital, and to decide what arrangements are needed rather than to wait for this crisis to get out of hand. Anger is rumbling: you don't have to adopt waiting strategies, but make the right decisions, right away.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u81	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1088.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u82	I recalled yesterday that, for twenty years – because this is not the new majority – the public hospital has made enormous efforts and that staff have made considerable gains in productivity, through, among other things, reorganizations of services, which have undoubtedly produced effects. But today we have to face the following observation: we are close to the breaking point and the pockets of productivity no longer exist. As a result of the ageing of the population and the evolution of the acts delivered to the hospital, there has been a steady increase in the workload over the years, much more than the increase in the number of staff. I said yesterday: 2% increase in staff for 15% increase in hospital activity in ten years. Such a trend obviously ends up reaching its limits. The hospital ONDAM does not seem to be sustainable at 2.1%: such a rate does not allow unit rates to rise beyond inflation if the increase in activity is 1%, which means that wages and staff must be weighed. This ONDAM will therefore again impose an increase in productivity, which hospitals are now unable to do because of the current level of hospital investment and the inadaptation of certain structures to the requirements of the Department's Health, Environment and Health Directorate – DHES. I would add that the Government might be tempted to see in the recent slowdown of the acts delivered at the public hospital the sign of the success of the outpatient shift. I would like to have the same optimism as you, minister, but I do not believe that this is the case: we are facing a rationation of the provision of care in the hospital. Many hospital practitioners demonstrate the need to identify "clinicables" and others in order to properly manage patients who report to them. And when we see that, for the first time, the growth of activity in clinics is greater than that of the hospital, we can see that the limits of exercise are reached. Without bringing anyone to trial, but as a matter of responsibility, we have therefore put forward a proposal which we consider to be sustainable and financially viable, namely to increase ONDAM.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u83	I call Mr Sebastien Nadot to support Amendment No. 1186.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u84	I will not go back too long on the context of ONDAM in view of the current state of public health services. On the other hand, I wish to link this debate to the plan "my health 2022", which, whether it pleases or not, bears witness to an ambition to reform public health in France. However, history has shown us enough, the choice to make savings while reforming often proves to be an inefficient method. I would therefore like, through this deletion amendment, to recall that we have made enough mistakes in the past in seeking to reform. I have witnessed the rather heated exchanges you had yesterday with Boris Vallaud, putting you under mutual responsibility for the current situation, but it seems to me that the method you have chosen raises a strong question: can we at the same time reform and save money on public health services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u85	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u86	I share much of what has been said, and in particular the measured intervention – which was not always the case yesterday – of Mr Vallaud, who recalls that, for twenty years, the hospital has been asked to make efforts. In 2000 or 2001, ONDAM's rates of change were 6 to 7 per cent. With ten years of decline, the time when such rates were applied may appear as a blessed time, during which one was able to develop many things. However, if the increases in the ONDAM of that time had been accompanied by measures to ensure the relevance of care, to take the outpatient turn and to improve the organization of care both in the city and in the hospital, we would now find ourselves in a much clearer and operational situation. So everyone has to learn from the past, which invites us, while we may consider increasing the resources devoted to the health system, to accompany these structural increases in order to prevent these budgetary increases from being paid to hospitals without entailing restructuring or reorganization. You are right when you note that we have reached levels that have never been seen in ten years: the 2.5% increase in the ONDAM adopted for 2019 is the largest increase in the hospital budget voted since 2011.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u87	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u88	So, it's a fact: ONDAM grew by 2.6% in 2010, then by 2.7% in 2011, before the pace declined throughout the next quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u89	We must take into account the level of inflation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u90	It is not for me to accuse anyone, especially since I was a Member of Parliament at that time in your camp. I remember that at the time we were already having difficulty voting for ONDAM developments of 2% or less – we had fallen, I believe, to 1.8%, a significant difference from the 2.5% increase voted for 2019. We knew that this situation created tension – in the hospital environment, but also in city medicine, because the spontaneous growth of spending on city medicine is, because of the ambulatory shift, much stronger, hence a greater differential compared to the increase in ONDAM. For this reason, the amendments proposing to transfer credits from city medicine to the hospital do not seem to me to be a relevant solution either. You are right, Mr Vallaud, when you recall that a major effort is being made by health institutions and that tensions exist. The latter are not just of budgetary origin, and I hope that the announcements in the coming weeks concerning the hospital sector will extend, for example, to management. The demedicalization of the framework introduced by the HPST law on hospital reform and on patients, health and territories has caused – I think you will agree with me on this point, because you did not vote for it – significant damage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u91	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u92	It has caused medical and health-care teams to lose sense of their hospital missions, loss of benchmarks, loss of capacity to set up projects and complete them. These impacts are not necessarily measurable financially, but they are real. We have probably reached the end of a logic that led the public authorities to implement a somewhat ambivalent policy. I remember discussions in this Chamber, during which, denouncing excessive hospitalisation and the multitude of activities carried out by the hospital, they were called upon to switch to city medicine. At the same time, however, it was noted that city medicine was becoming scarce and that, between two hospitals 100 to 150 kilometres away, no liberal resources were available to meet patients' demand. Various mechanisms had then been proposed to modernize hospitals and enable them to respond to first resort and proximity missions, without going against the development of outpatient medicine. It now appears, in a situation of demographic shortage, that this balance is not always easy to find. This observation invites us to modesty: if we had been able to anticipate future demographic tensions, perhaps the ambulatory turn would have taken another turn at the time. The minister announced yesterday the launch of a great reflection involving professionals and parliamentarians in order to arrive at strong measures on the hospital issue, which I believe must transcend the only hospital ONDAM. I would remind you that we voted very massively for the 2.5 per cent increase in ONDAM, which represents an additional 400 million euros compared to the presidential promise. We can, it seems to me, be satisfied with the action taken in 2019, even though we have debates about the year 2020 – they will take place in the coming weeks. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to all of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u94	It is unfavourable, for several reasons. First of all, the debate is about ONDAM for 2019, i.e. expenditure already incurred. A rectification of the ex post accounts, while the expenditure was incurred, would render the accounts indifferent. So she doesn't have to be. We will have a debate on the hospital, but I propose that we reserve it for the time being when we will vote on ONDAM for 2020. With regard to these deletion amendments, it would not make sense to rectify ex post expenditure already incurred. I would point out that last year's increase of 2.5% was, for the first time in ten years, a really significant increase, which allowed us to raise the rates for the public hospital: for the first time in a decade, hospital budgets, i.e. the rates for institutions, have increased. This increase has led to a significant reduction in the hospital deficit, which reached EUR 1 billion per year when I took office in 2017 and was reduced by almost half in 2019. We are therefore correcting the situation of the public hospital. I understand the impatience of professionals. All the actions that we have been implementing for the past two years – be it the "my health 2022" programme, the reform of the emergency organisation, or the ongoing reflections on career attractiveness and investment – are aimed at saving the public hospital. We're doing it. I have made commitments to ensure that ONDAM's 2020 hospital rates are at least equivalent to those of 2019, which will allow them to regain room for manoeuvre. I would also like to point out once again that in 2019 prices rose for the first time in ten years. I will refer to the charging schemes when we discuss the pricing of community hospitals and emergency hospitals. All these reforms are aimed at reviving meaning, in order to avoid this logic of pricing activity – T2A – which makes hospitals crazy and does not value the time they devote to the sick or the relevance of their actions. We are changing our model and gradually re-establishing the situation. This improvement will not simply require an increase in ONDAM, which would be in line with the trend in expenditure. I would also like to take up Mr Dharréville's remarks on the trend scenario, which constitutes the alpha and the omega of our reflections. This scenario corresponds to the projection of the evolution of health expenditures, if nothing was done. But we are doing just that. Which country can afford to see its health spending increase by 4% a year? None! This would lead us to devote one additional point of GDP to health every ten years: to the detriment of what other expenditure would such an increase take place? This is why countries like ours make choices about stabilizing or limiting the increase in the share of health expenditure in GDP. Tendential evolution is precisely a bad course, since we are doing everything we can to transform the system, to gain relevance, or to reduce redundancy and long hospitalizations when they are not necessary. Ambulatory is indeed a reality: in many specialties – particularly in cancerology – medicines are now delivered in the city and are administered orally. This turn is incredibly visible. We are gradually transforming our model in depth. We will give the public hospital the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u96	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u97	I can hear you perfectly, minister, when you talk about the trend and the need for short-, medium- or long-term reflection to change the public hospital. Your comment, however, raises two questions, of which we cannot save, even if article 6 actually deals with ONDAM for 2019. These questions concern the expectation of the medium-term restructuring that you have undertaken. In this connection, I would like to refer to the intervention of Valérie Rabault, who asked you about the emergency action plan, which is not reflected in the figures presented to us. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] I also invite you to clarify what you said this morning on television – like many of my colleagues, I listened with great attention: you announced that the additional funds would not include any funds dedicated to new hospitals. However, the restructuring of the community hospital as a whole requires, as you know, in places to think about fundamental restructuring, i.e. revisions of hospital facilities, and therefore of possible new facilities. So the sentence you have given is a matter of concern to me and to others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u98	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u99	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her clarification of her announcements this morning about the hospital, and for her reasserted respect for the parliamentary debate. I believe that we will not escape a global discussion on the funding of the hospital. You say, Madam Minister, – and you are probably right at the macro level – that health spending needs to be stabilized; But if we have an NADO that is expected to grow by 4 or 4.5% today, it is because our population is aging, its health is deteriorating, and the demand for health is growing year after year. The undervaluation of ONDAMs over the past few years, if it is intended to contain health spending, has generated a hospital debt, which, even if it retracts slightly thanks to your efforts, is now approaching 40 billion euros. Let us all bear in mind that the burden of this debt is a major component of the current difficulties faced by the public hospital: when one manages an institution with a debt of between 30 and 40 billion euros, one is clearly hampered in its investments, in its acquisitions and in its recruitments, the burden of the debt on the budget is extremely heavy. I therefore call for a more comprehensive reflection in the future on the financing of the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u100	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u101	I hear your answer, minister. From the very beginning, I told you that you inherited two decades in which the hospital had been killed by fire, and you had announced that you would encounter this impasse. You indicate that no country can support a 4% increase in ONDAM; But no other country could do without the ISF, which we did! Many similar examples could apply. I also hear your willingness to act for the public hospital, but in the face of two decades of destruction of the hospital, you must now find emergency means to save it. We have been talking about the situation of EHPAD for the past two years. A large autonomy dependency plan is announced, without any measures appearing in the PLFSS. The challenge now is to know – perhaps the Minister of Public Accounts can tell us – when we will finally spend the money needed to cure the last twenty years of non-treatment of the public hospital. We are not throwing stones at you, minister, you who find yourself in this situation...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u102	No, because it's obviously the fault of Gérald Darmanin...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u103	... but we must now find solutions: Bercy must grant the necessary means so that we can treat the French with dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u104	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u105	You can imagine, Madam Minister, that in terms of room for manoeuvre – since you are asking where to find the extra money to spend on health – I have some ideas. I will spare you, having already stated them in this House several times, and again a few minutes ago. However, I believe that part of this increase in spending is linked, as Caroline Fiat said, to the very poor condition of our health care system and our public hospital. I do not believe that it is by ignoring this reality that we will be able to solve the problem. We are at a time when there is a need for investment, including to produce, in the long run, a more effective care system. In terms of salaries, the level of salaries of civil servants is unworthy. One day we will have to tackle this problem, which will require public investment. The hospital debt, referred to by Mr Grelier, is also part of the expenses included in the 4.5% that I was talking about. No doubt there are therefore structural measures to be taken, and I do not believe that we have yet taken the measure of what needs to be done for this, but this will not prevent the trend increase, in particular because new care opportunities are technically available to us and should be offered to as many people as possible, each and every one, which has an impact on the evolution of expenditure. However, the proposal made to us does not even allow the existing capacity for care to be maintained.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u106	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u107	Madam Minister, I regret that you were playing Mr Darmanin's score so strictly. However, you are aware of the situation: in ten years, 50,000 beds, or 13% of those that existed, have been abolished and wages have been frozen, as Mr Dharréville said in particular. The wages of French nurses are thus twenty-sixth out of twenty-nine OECD countries, and the budgets have never been well correlated with the increase in the burden. Indeed, while the burden increased by 4 per cent, budgets increased by only 2.4 per cent. It's not tenable. The needs of users are also changing, as you said earlier, with the development of chronic diseases. You asked which country could afford to increase its health spending in this way, but it turns out that you are the Minister of Health, not the budget: what are the political objectives that must define the trajectory? The budget is not the first principle to which all the rest should then be adapted by means of a plan. The question is what we really need. If you need, then, to be inventive in finding resources, trust us: believe that we will know how to do it, as Mr Dharréville said, even if it takes us a little time. There is also the question of demography and its evolution, which is also one of the reasons for the increase in the burden. In fact, very often, although healthy life expectancy is stagnating in our country, there is a feeling that life expectancy should be deplored: this increase poses problems for both pension financing and health – people living longer, chronic diseases are developing, which costs the hospital. What a shame! Yes, it does, but it would be better if we were to live older. So it is better to start by asking ourselves what we need and tailoring budgets to these needs, rather than the other way round. It should therefore not be up to you, Madam Minister, to adjust to the budget, but the other way around.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u108	Bravo! It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u109	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u110	It was said earlier that the issue was not just one of means and that management would make it possible to get out of a crisis situation. Let me therefore recall the situation of psychiatry in France by pointing out a recent and very well done parliamentary report, which evokes the almost intangible organization of mental health since 1960. To hope to reform this organization on a constant basis on the basis of the plan "my health 2022" is a decoy, because a cultural transformation is necessary in this area. I repeat: as we can see from ONDAM, the budgetary situation is incompatible with an ambitious reform of psychiatry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u111	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u112	Allow me to make a few considerations that go beyond the scope of this article. First of all, some of the structural measures you have taken or have taken in the past will take a long time to produce their effects. Thus, the ambulatory turn continues to turn, it is slow and it faces problems of medical demography. Charging for pathology, which is still experimental, does not change the situation rigorously. As far as the indicators are concerned, we still have some progress to make, compared to other countries, in relation to the indicators. I do not disagree that structural reforms are needed, and that is why we have called for pluralistic general states of the hospital, which is our common good. However, urgent measures must be taken: those we have proposed and which we have proposed that they be financed by a reduction in the financing of the Social Debt Depreciation Fund, CADES, in order to be able, for example, as our colleague mentioned, to support investment. If, out of EUR 30 billion in debt, EUR 10 billion were allocated to a defacilitating fund – which can be the CADES – this would create self-financing capacity. If, like the AP-HP, Public Assistance - Hospitals in Paris, all hospital centres could borrow on markets at negative interest rates, they would alleviate their bank debt. These are just a few examples. Finally, if we are to consider structural reforms, we must question the very functioning of ONDAM, which has become, over the years, a strictly budgetary steering tool, not a public health policy tool. When we vote for ONDAM, I do not know whether the French will have more or less provision of care, whether they will have more or less staff, what the workload per caregiver will be, or whether the investment will correspond to the efforts expected of hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u113	Mr Vallaud, please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u114	I'll finish that sentence another day...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u115	Then we won't know what you meant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u116	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u117	I will take the floor again on another amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u118	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u119	As well as T2A, ONDAM is not intended to be a tool for guiding health policies. Pilotage must, in fact, meet health needs and whenever national tools have been put in place with the myth of the ad hoc steering of the health organisation, it has been wrong. Thus, the numerus clausus was intended to impose an offer of care rather than to accommodate the need for care in the territories. The ONDAM is therefore only a reflection of a budget that will then allow for medically controlled policies. Last year, for the first time, we voted, as part of the Social Security Financing Bill, for the possibility of having regulatory tools, for example with a regulatory approach to city medicine, which had never been the case, despite the efforts of the right and the left in the last twenty years. Things have gone very well and I do not believe that the role you are saying can be attributed to ONDAM. On the other hand, in the case of hospital debt, some hospitals behave very virtuously, but they also have the greatest difficulty in dealing with the interests of their debt, which are sometimes toxic, at rates between 2.5 and 4 per cent. We know examples of hospitals that can no longer invest, whose investment capacity is exhausted and which run in vain after the interest of the debt. This question is of course a matter for all, and perhaps, beyond that of ONDAM, a lead to be considered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u120	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u121	Mr Door, I forgot to answer your question just now, but I would like to tell you that there is no under-execution of ONDAM. You seemed to question the position of the Alert Committee, but it is quite reassuring about the execution. In reality, therefore, there is no warning and the budget presented is quite sincere. Mr Viala and Mrs Rabault referred to the emergency situation by asking where the EUR 750 million would come from. Of this amount, $150 million is earmarked in 2020 for the recruitment of staff for better management of beds downstream of emergencies and, possibly, for the recreating of units where beds are lacking because, in some territories, too many beds have been closed. That $150 million is tied to the cash we have today. For 2021 and 2022, we will have the opportunity to discuss this amount of 250 million per year under the PLFSS. The only commitment I am making today is therefore to say that I am able, through internal redistributions, to find the necessary sums for the year 2020 – which is why this sum is not specifically included in this PLFSS. Ms. Fiat questioned the lack of resources for emergencies. In reality, and as surprising as it may seem, this is not the case. Indeed, we all feel that emergencies are overburdened because their activity would have increased without the means following. However, as far as the means – whether human or financial – are concerned, the figures provided by the DGOS, the Directorate-General for the Provision of Care, within my Ministry, are consistent with the activity: for an average activity increasing by 13% over the last three or four years, 13% of the additional resources have been devoted to human resources or funding. I imagine, however, that this concordance must mask very large territorial disparities. Indeed, it is clear that some hospitals are experiencing enormous tensions, while others are less so. There is also a societal change, with an impatience from the public that puts pressure on staff. One can see another way of treating caregivers, a positioning of care consumers that makes the profession much more difficult, which could explain the feeling we have today: if emergency services are completely overloaded with work, it would be not only for reasons of means, but also because of the new pressures they are under. Finally, Mr. Quatennens, you told me that I was a minister of health, not of the budget, and you suggested that health spending should be infinite and that ONDAM should increase as long as the trend increase in population aging persists. I am not a minister of the budget, and of course I want a great deal of money to be spent on health, but I will tell you, in all responsibility, that a high NADOM, or rather a high share of health expenditure in GDP, has never been synonymous with a good state of health for the population. It is enough to convince ourselves to look at the situation in the United States, where health spending accounts for 17% of GDP: it is not good medicine. It is therefore necessary to use as much energy to structure the provision of care, to make it accessible and to ensure the relevance of the acts, as to find money. Money doesn't fix everything if you don't restructure a system and you don't think about it. What I've been proposing for two years, and what you've been working on through various pieces of legislation, is to think about a holistic transformation of our system, in which we would rethink the pricing, the place of digital and the place of new mid-care professionals between nurses and doctors, with nurses of advanced practice. Other countries have succeeded in this transformation and have a quality health supply, without necessarily following this trend increase of 4% per year, which cannot be the alpha and the omega of reflection. So, of course, we need money, but we also need to know what to do and what transformations we are carrying out. That is what I am doing today with the professionals in the sector. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u122	On Article 6, I am seized by the Socialist and related groups and by the group La France insoubted of an application for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me three amendments, Nos 448, 946 and 1439, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 946 and 1439 are identical. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 448.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u123	Article 6 proposes a correction of ONDAM 2019 by allocating an additional €130 million to health facilities and services, particularly for the elderly. Even if this is not enough, it is a gesture to be greeted. Amendment No 448 seeks to achieve a more balanced sharing of the financial effort and to recover EUR 700 million on city care for the benefit of health facilities. The situation of emergency services and hospitals, whose operational difficulties can go so far as to compromise safety, must be addressed. It is therefore proposed to cover an additional EUR 100 million from the regional intervention fund – FIR – in order to increase the appropriations for EHPAD from EUR 130 million to EUR 140 million. Madam Minister, you yourself have considered this correction necessary to respond to the difficulties of the EHPADs, as a result of the movements they have set in motion. With this amendment, we can go further to provide more responses to hospitals and improve the situation of EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u124	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor to support Amendment No 946.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u125	I will go along the same lines as my colleague with this withdrawal amendment, which concerns emergencies. I listened carefully to the Minister's comments on the €750 million plan. We find it insufficient, and if I believe the discussion you have just had about the means used to save the hospital, the path you are taking does not seem satisfactory to us. The money does not solve everything, but it would still solve the problems raised by the emergency workers – let alone the needs of the other services, also in arrears – who demand a monthly salary increase of 300 euros and the recruitment of 10,000 people. That doesn't match the numbers you gave. On behalf of the GDR Group, I therefore ask, with this withdrawal amendment, that in addition to the 750 million euros you have mentioned – an insufficient gesture – 300 million more be released, a necessary amount to respond in particular to the demands of the emergency workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u126	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1439.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u127	This amendment, identical to the previous one, aims to include in the budget the commitment made by the Minister to support emergencies, in this case by allocating EUR 300 million to hospitals for 2019 in order to respond to the crisis we are experiencing. For reasons of budgetary technique, we are obviously forced to take a pledge on the sub-objective "others taken over" – it is an accounting entry, not to dissociate one means to the benefit of the other. This is an opportunity for me to put the question to the minister, because I'm afraid I've misunderstood. You responded earlier that no credit was actually entered to meet the commitments you made in the emergency services announcements. You said these would be "internal redistributions." Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u128	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u129	We discussed these amendments at length – for almost an hour – and I understand the meaning of them. You say, in essence, that the only way to increase the hospital's budget for 2019 is to transfer money from city medicine to hospital medicine, for different amounts – 700 million, 450 million or 300 million – depending on the amendments. By the way, I make it clear that we are talking about the past year and not the coming year: given the deadline for the promulgation of the text, changing ONDAM 2019 would have no impact. The minister answered you on the issue of emergencies earlier, but I do not think it is lawful to completely change the rules governing the financing of the two sub-sectors a posteriori. As I said earlier, this year, for the first time, thanks to the reserve of a €120 million envelope, a tool for regulating city medicine – which has so far seemed impalpable to us. This regulatory mechanism will be amplified next year as the amount of the envelope will, I believe, reach 150 million. The hospital's budget, which amounted to €82.6 billion in 2019, will rise to €84.2 billion in 2020, which represents an additional 1.6 billion. It is therefore wrong to say that the hospital's budget is falling. It is increasing to a significant extent, although it may still be considered insufficient. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u131	The opinion is unfavourable because, once again, these are budgets which are already largely implemented. In practice, if we follow what Mrs Dubié's amendment recommends, how do we get 700 million euros back into city medicine between October 2019 and December 2020? Do we stop paying back the patients who went to the doctor? Since these budgets have been implemented previously – there are actually two months left – it makes no sense to correct the envelopes. We will have the opportunity to talk again about the 2020 budget, but the opinion on these amendments is unfavourable. On the other hand, Mr Vallaud, I have already answered a few moments ago about emergencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u132	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u133	I wish to assist the Government, and in particular the Minister against Bercy. We fully share what has been said about the hospital. Two days ago, we participated together in a very important programme on the plan for the hospital. In the context of the crisis of emergencies, which is real, you are compressed between, on the one hand, a hospital staff who tells you that he can no longer, and on the other the logic of Bercy which leads you to announce a plan about what is only a redeployment. Our Socialist opposition colleagues then put a little salt on the wounds by saying that they will find the money you miss, which you consider rigid. One of Parliament's roles is to vote for the allocation of resources. For Members who want to be useful, it is difficult to hear the argument that, as the appropriations are already partly committed, this role would only be theoretical. We will therefore help you and, for my part, I will vote for the amendment by our Socialist friends – at least for the occasion – because a true hospital policy requires, not a redeployment of resources but a plan financed by new resources. And so much if it's a problem for these ladies and gentlemen of Bercy! We will instruct them to find ways to finance the other sectors that you have chosen, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u134	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u135	These amendments seek to obtain resources for emergencies. Minister, you said earlier in the discussion that the 13% increase in attendance had resulted in a 13% increase in human resources. Your demonstration leads me to raise two problems. First of all, we need to know what the starting point is: if we leave with 20% delay, the curves will be parallel, but this delay will not be filled. Then, what about the equipment? Were they affected by this 13% increase? You say people are impatient; But I understand the impatience of patients waiting five, six, seven, eight hours in the emergency corridors because of the lack of facilities to accommodate them. So I don't think your demonstration is very convincing. Finally, you tell us, taking the example of the United States, that the amount of expenditure is never related to the state of health of a population. But you have to reason on an equal basis, minister. In a model like ours, based on solidarity and mutualization, the more resources are allocated, the better the distribution is, the better the general state of health. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The American example that you quote is in line with my demonstration since it is a system based on the private – it is in this direction that you take us. When we leave the system of solidarity, we turn to private resources for absolutely zero efficiency. This confirms the need for a system with the resources and the means to enable solidarity to be exercised and the health of the population to improve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u136	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u137	Madam Minister, I understand that it is difficult to recover an additional EUR 700 million from city medicine. But at the same time, we are bound to do so because spending cannot increase and we are constrained by the envelope voted in 2019. This is what you are currently doing for EHPADs by taking €130 million from city medicine to provide them to institutions and services for the elderly. Being well aware of the difficulties and constraints, we ask to go further by taking more on city medicine. The ambulatory turn is certainly a prospect to be achieved, but this goal is still far away. For all these reasons, and because the EHPADs cannot be deprived of the EUR 130 million you are proposing, the Libertés et territoires group will abstain from Article 6. Your measure is still insufficient for a sector that deserves much more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u138	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u139	If it were just a matter of budget, if it were enough to allocate resources where, apparently, it might be lacking, everything would be simpler. But the question is much more complex. There should be a systemic vision and a recasting of a model that has worked well but that, today, for various reasons, is no longer working properly. We need to know who does what, where, how, with whom, from what perspective, and what innovation we inject into the system. It is not budget line issues that will resolve these problems. The MODEM Group will therefore not vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u140	I put Rule 6 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u141	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 97 Number of votes cast 88 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 76 Against 12
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u142	I put to the vote the whole of the second part of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u143	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u144	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u145	We are now dealing with the third part of the bill, concerning the revenue provisions and the general balance of social security for fiscal year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u146	On Rule 7, the floor is Mr Thierry Benoit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u147	Article 7 deals with a device that I consider to be brilliant, proposed by the Government – or rather by the President of the Republic – a little less than a year ago, last winter, at the end of the debate on social movements: the so-called "Macron" bonus. The aim of the article is to extend it on condition that an agreement of interest exists within the company – this is a complexity that could have been avoided. I would like to remind Mrs Agnès Pannier-Runacher, whose ministerial portfolio covers businesses and assets – the very subject of the article – that the agreement of interest concerns only large companies. However, as Paul Christophe will propose with an amendment, I would have hoped that the premium would also be available to employees in small businesses with fewer than 11 employees. Better, this scheme that I call awesome – because receiving up to 1000 euros tax-exempt is very interesting – would deserve to be extended to the self-employed. I submit this idea to the sagacity of the Government and of all parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u148	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u149	I don't have the same idea of genius as my colleague and friend Thierry Benoit...,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u150	We thought so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u151	...but it's normal; This is probably the reason why we do not sit on the same side of the House. The Government intends once again to exempt from contributions and social contributions the exceptional premium, known as the "Macron bonus", which companies will be able to pay provided they have an interest agreement in place. Optionally, this premium is based on the goodwill of the employer and therefore does not benefit everyone: while managers of large companies that affect it in general will continue to receive it, many employees, especially those of small companies, will not be entitled to it. You may write that a third of the total amount of premiums paid has benefited employees of companies with less than fifty employees, but these companies employ just over 40% of employees in France; So we're a long way from the point of view. More generally, only 25% of employees received the Macron bonus. The exemption provided for in Article 7 is above all a poisoned gift for everyone, since it amounts to less revenue for public funds. Indeed, de-socializing and de-socializing challenges means taking money away from our social protection and public finances – that is, from health insurance, pensions, schools, hospitals – at a time when they are particularly in need of it. Is it worth recalling that the year of mobilisation in the field of tax and social justice is not yet over? [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] With the renewal of the tax-exempt premium, large companies will be able to create a generous image by taking advantage of public money; It's double jackpot, the wrinkle is going on! We will obviously vote against Article 7. Genius isn't where we think he is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u152	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u153	Article 7 proposes to renew a relevant measure which the Republican Group had voted for. I welcome the comments made by Mr Thierry Benoit on the need to expand the system. Interest is a major idea and participation must concern all employees, whatever they may be, as well as all those who produce value in our country. The premium scheme must be extended to everyone; Above all, it is important for business leaders – especially TPE leaders and artisans – that the mechanism be simple, devoid of complexity. We will propose amendments to that effect, and I would ask you to consider them kindly, because they are intended to improve the functioning of the system. I see in Article 7 a way of strengthening the application of the law on business growth and transformation, the PACTE law, whose measures relating to self-interest struggle to take off. It is imperative that France catch up in this area; We believe in the virtues of this practice, provided the system is clear. That is the spirit of Article 7, and we are in favour of it, while considering that we can do better by extending the exceptional premium to all rather than restricting it to only some.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u154	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u155	Very satisfied with Article 7 – because the exceptional premium is, in essence, purchasing power for employees – the MODEM and related group will nevertheless propose to improve it further. We want to draw attention to the 1.3 million associations and 1.8 million employees in the voluntary sector in order to support, in a way, the 16 million volunteers that we are visiting in our territories and which are systematically applauded. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] There are about 164,000 employers' associations in France, half of which employ one or two employees; We want them to be able to pay them the exceptional premium because these employees are also entitled to additional purchasing power. Madam Secretary of State, in a time when we need associations that engage and a social model that is more supportive and fraternal, it is for the employees of the world of associations that we are fighting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u156	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u157	I would like to say a word about this article, because I fear that my amendments will fall even before I have been able to defend them. The exceptional purchasing power premium discussed here is unfortunately not full pay: due to the exemption from contributions, its payment will not increase the pension rights of employees; the premium will not be taken into account in the calculation of the unemployment rights, will not contribute to the financing of the health system... In short, it does not open social rights. That is why we see this measure of purchasing power as a tool for circumventing wages and weakening the potential revenues of social security. We will therefore propose, by means of a fallback amendment, to limit the payment of the premium to companies with fewer than 250 employees. This would be in line with the logic of encouraging interest schemes in small and medium-sized enterprises. Indeed, the largest companies have the means to pay premiums without going through exempt devices – 60% of the total amount paid has been paid in companies with more than 50 employees. These companies have already introduced incentive schemes to pay wages to their employees without going through socialised wages. There is therefore a risk of a significant windfall effect for them. Secondly, as shown in Volume II of the report, page 52, the average amount of the premium paid was higher in enterprises with less than 250 employees than in enterprises with a higher number of employees. These reasons explain that we want to limit this premium to those companies that need it most.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u158	Mr Pascal Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u159	It seems that, for the majority, only one MEP from the MODEM group spoke on the subject. In my personal capacity, however, I intend to react to the comments made by our colleagues Benoit and Viry, as well as to the remarks made by Messrs. Dharréville and Prud'homme. I consider that the measure provided for in Article 7 is of common sense, that it should be renewed and even extended to enterprises with fewer than 10 employees. A line of demarcation would thus be drawn between the different types of enterprises. Indeed, rural areas, which have many small craft enterprises, need such mechanisms to encourage their employees. I would also like to reassure our colleagues on the left: of course, the premium will not increase employees' pension rights and is exempt from sickness contributions, but it is a gift for companies and employees. The money thus earned will not be theorized, but consumed very quickly. However, I would point out that there is a consumption tax called VAT, which will increase its revenue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u160	All right! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u161	Mr Le Fur has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u162	My intervention is based on Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. Article 7 of the PLFSS is quite interesting and stimulating, but I would like us to debate the substance and to be able to give more bonuses to certain categories, particularly to the working world, which is overly forgotten here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u163	How is this a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u164	The problem is that I have tabled amendments to that end and that they have been rejected, Madam President, under Article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u165	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u166	These amendments were intended to create additional premiums for people working at high temperatures, those working in high weather conditions, those working in shiftwork... So many amendments that I was able to defend a year ago, because they had then passed the heading of Article 40 – mystery!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u167	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u168	Yes, it is a reality that I must see in order to deplore it. I therefore wish, Madam President...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u169	Thank you, Mr. Le Fur, for this point of order...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u170	I conclude, Madam President: we find ourselves in a place where the workers' world is too forgotten,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u171	That's right! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u172	Thank you, Mr. Le Fur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u173	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] ...and my amendments concerned him directly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u174	[[Smile]] Mr Le Fur, like me, you know the contours of the point of order, which I think you have an extensive interpretation here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u175	We come to the amendments to the article. Mr Olivier Véran has the floor to support Amendment No. 1821 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u176	This is an editorial amendment. I would like to point out to Mr Le Fur that I have lost the cell phone number of Mr Woerth, Chairman of the Committee on Finance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u177	[[Smile]] I got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u178	... and charged with the implementation of article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u179	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u180	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] But I'm sure Mr. Le Fur has kept it since he sat on the same benches as him. Let me not believe that it would be the majority who would have broken Mr. Le Fur's intentions, because it is simply the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u181	Were you not supposed to defend your amendment, Mr General, in the same way that Mr Le Fur was supposed to make a point of order? We are immersed in a real artistic blur... Would you like to add a word, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u182	[[Smile]] I have Eric Woerth's phone number!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u183	All right, so don't fail to communicate it to whoever it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u184	I call Mrs Cendra Motin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, to support Amendment No. 1373.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u185	I would like to clarify which public officials are affected by the exceptional premium and to recall the framework for its allocation last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u187	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u188	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u189	We fully understand the objective of precision and openness of the system to a large part of public officials. The text already provides for this and goes further than last year, since all companies and institutions that have set up an incentive scheme will this time be eligible for exemption. These include private-law employers, public industrial and commercial establishments – EPIC – and public administrative establishments – EPA – when employing private-law personnel. Under Article 7, all EPIC and EPA staff employing private law personnel will therefore be eligible for the exceptional premium if the institution establishes an interest agreement. We therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u190	Do you maintain your amendment, Mrs. Motin?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u191	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u192	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u193	She's obedient!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u194	I have before me several amendments, Nos 1315, 1947, 1832, 505, 610, 504, 1393, 700 and 143, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 1315 and 1947 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 504 and 1393 and Nos 700 and 143. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 1315.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u195	The renewal of the exceptional premium is a good idea and a defiance premium is a real cyclical measure of improving purchasing power. On the other hand, it is particularly unfair, unfair, to condition it with an agreement of interest. In fact, for TPEs and SMEs, it is more complicated than for large companies to conclude such agreements. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to remove this restrictive condition so that the premium benefits many employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u196	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to support Amendment No. 1947.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u197	Article 7 renews the exceptional bonus scheme, the success of which is undeniable and has been welcomed on several occasions. In Jura, for example, some 18,000 employees received it for an average amount of 420 euros per person and a total of 9 million euros. However, the economic fabric of the Jura department is mainly composed of TPE and SMEs, traders and artisans. The addition of a condition relating to the existence or establishment of an interest agreement may therefore complicate the scheme and discourage small enterprises, which, having no such agreements, cannot associate their employees with the results. I therefore feel that this condition is all the more regrettable because, I would stress, the exceptional premium has given rise to a real enthusiasm to the point of being praised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u198	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor to support Amendment No. 1832.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u199	Many arguments have already been developed. Above all, I will retain the interest of the exceptional premium for employees. She was praised because of her simplicity. However, this has been shown very well, a factor of complexity is introduced here. Less than 10% of enterprises with between 10 and 49 employees and less than 20% of those with between 50 and 99 employees have entered into an interest agreement because they do not have the technical, financial and legal means to do so. Now, and I agree with what has been said on the benches of the left, it would be a shame to exclude SMEs from this premium...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u200	And the independents!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u201	...and the independents.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u202	All right, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u203	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 505.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u204	The purpose of this amendment is to remove the fact that the payment of the exceptional premium is conditional on the establishment of an incentive agreement for companies with fewer than 250 employees. Indeed, such a measure is likely to make the scheme more complex and, above all, penalise employees who work in small firms. The first review of the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies (ACOSS), which was prepared last March, shows that 29.8% of establishments with more than 2000 employees paid a premium, compared with 9.7% for enterprises with less than 10 employees. The Committee on Social Affairs has adopted an amendment to exempt companies with fewer than 11 employees. However, this does not seem sufficient to us and, if we share the desire to encourage the establishment of self-interest agreements within companies – because we understand the underlying objective of sharing value between employers and employees – we believe that maintaining the condition in question will be too damaging for the employees concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u205	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 610.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u206	As I said earlier, we would like to limit the mechanism that accompanies the payment of the exceptional premium to companies with fewer than 250 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u207	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 504.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u208	This is a fallback amendment. Since the purpose of the scheme provided for in Article 7 is to support the purchasing power of employees, we ask that the condition of setting up an interest agreement be abolished for companies, this time with fewer than 50 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u209	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 1393.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u210	This amendment, of the same kind as the previous amendment, is intended to allow companies with fewer than 50 employees to pay the exceptional premium provided for in Article 7 without having entered into an interest agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u211	On the identical amendments Nos 700 and 143, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 700.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u212	I will then take the floor to give the committee's opinion on all the amendments under joint discussion. Amendment No 700, adopted by the committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u213	That was my amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u214	...is intended to abolish the obligation of an interest agreement as a condition for the granting of the exceptional premium for companies with less than 11 employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u215	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 143.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u216	Interest remains marginal in small businesses, as our colleague De Temmerman pointed out. In 2015, only 2.9% of employees in TPEs and 11.9% of employees in enterprises with 10 to 49 employees benefited. The introduction of self-interest involves negotiating an agreement with the employee representative for a period of three years, determining the calculation of the incentive premium and possibly making distinctions between the categories of employees. As a result, it is an administrative obstacle that often hinders managers of SMEs or TPEs who do not have human resources management – HRD – at their service. Writing an agreement of interest or participation is often a matter of specialist. Of course, in order to facilitate their work, the Government has put online on the website of the Ministry of Labour, and I welcome two models of agreement, one for self-interest and the other for participation, which take up in detail the clauses to be included in this type of text. However, although this is a measure of purchasing power that is very well received by the French, you may exclude all very small companies from the scheme. Finally, there would be something hypocritical about setting up a system and at the same time ensuring that it is not applicable to TPEs. That is why we have tabled this amendment in committee, which, let us recall, has adopted it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u218	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u219	In 2019, 5 million employees, 450 euros per employee who received it, without contributions, without charges, without taxes either for the employee or for the company, and in total 2,2 billion euros: this is the balance sheet of the exceptional premium known as "Macron", attributed as a result of the movement of yellow vests. Building on this success, which has affected more than a quarter of the private sector employees in our country, the Government has decided to propose the renewal of this exceptional premium for the year 2020, but with two modifications. On the one hand, the deadline to allocate it will be no more than three, but six months, so that companies can organise themselves better. On the other hand, it will be accompanied by a condition, to which all of these amendments relate. It is indeed a matter of strictly enforcing the CAPTE law by promoting interest in our country. The aim of the majority is to support interest in all companies in our country, whatever their location, whatever their nature, whatever their size, whatever the number of their employees, because it is beneficial for all companies and for all employees. To achieve this goal, very simple devices are offered, with online kits. The procedure can still be simplified, so that there will normally be no technical brake on the conclusion of self-interest agreements. Some amendments tend to limit the exceptional premium to employees in companies with less than 250 employees. It would be a shame: why deprive the many employees who work in large groups of this substantial gain of purchasing power? I am therefore against these amendments. Other amendments, including the one adopted by the committee, are intended to reserve the obligation to sign an interest agreement for companies with more than 11 or more than 250 employees to pay the premium. We have been sensitive, in committee, to the argument of the smallest of our companies: is a baker who has one or two employees intended to set up an agreement of interest? Others questioned whether it would not be simpler, smarter, to develop participation rather than interest. If the aim of the majority is to push the fires of interest wherever possible, then, in my view, there is no reason to reserve this condition for certain companies. As a matter of personal concern, I shall therefore give an opinion which is unfavourable to these amendments. We will talk earlier about the case mentioned earlier by Sarah El Haïry of these very small associations, of some employees, who do not feel concerned about the interest, and who in any case cannot put in place such arrangements in the long term. I will reply to our colleagues on the left that, of course, this premium should not be replaced by an increase in wages – it is enshrined in the law. It would be a loss for social security, and you know what I think; It would also be a tax loss to the State. I therefore hope that means of control, of evaluation, will enable us to verify, thanks in particular to the figures of ACOSS – which will be given to us in the coming months, that there has been no substitution effect. Otherwise, we will have to revise our copy. I therefore propose, in full transparency, to make an appointment in this Chamber itself, in six months' time, within the framework of...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u220	Spring evaluation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u221	[[Exclaims on the SOC, GDR and FI panels]] [[Smile]] ...of the spring of the evaluation, yes. You mentioned the Mona Lisa in committee, Mr Dharréville: this time you will have a very large painting on which you can draw yourself! This will enable us to assess the effectiveness of this system and the absence of a substitution effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u222	See you in the spring!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u223	Otherwise, believe me, we'll be here to say it, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u225	Our position has been very well defended by the rapporteur-general. An exceptional premium must remain exceptional; This year it is a matter of making it a lever to speed up the conclusion of these agreements, which will make it possible to better interest employees in the good health of the company. Next year's exceptional bonus; the following year, agreement of interest. As you said, Mr. Benoit: small businesses must be accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u226	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u227	They deserve our full attention, and it is precisely for this reason that, after the PACTE law, which has been widely voted in this House, we have worked to facilitate the signing of agreements of interest to them. You mentioned the standard agreements, but I would point out that we are working with the chambers of trades and federations so that they can adapt precisely to each occupation concerned. The calculation formulas are very readily available, and we are developing decision support to further facilitate the adoption of these agreements. I would add that a simple referendum is sufficient in the absence of trade union delegates, which is the case in a very large majority of companies with fewer than 11 employees. Finally, there is no longer any social package on interest for companies with less than 250 employees. At a time when we are talking a lot about a productive pact, where we are insisting on giving it – we talked about it earlier – it is a matter of moving forward by offering an accompaniment to sign agreements of interest, in order to build this culture of sharing the objectives and the value created by the company; and we give a little boost thanks to this exceptional bonus. Subsequently, everyone will see that this path is much simpler and that it occupies much less of the legal and human resources services than is believed. Then we will have succeeded in our bet, that of a better sharing of value. That is what is at the heart of article 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u228	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u229	The Government was therefore opposed to all the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u230	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u231	The Group of the Republicans is strongly in favour of this first set of challenges. Last year, however, things were very simple: anyone employed under private law could benefit from this bonus if his employer so decided. This time, you attach conditions to this scheme, and these are difficult for small businesses. A mason who has only one employee will not grant him 300 euros of bonus if there are papers to fill! These conditions will also be dissuasive for associations; These are tens, hundreds of thousands of employees who will not benefit from this premium, which some have received this year. Finally, they are dissuasive for categories often forgotten in this chamber. Let's think about kindergarten assistants, for example: a family could decide to grant a bonus! Why wouldn't that be possible? Let us also think of all those who work in the service of individuals: they were likely yesterday to receive such a bonus, and will no longer be able to receive it. Finally, why not talk about a category that we know well, that of parliamentary collaborators? Some of us gave them bonuses last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u232	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u233	You must be aware of this, Madam Secretary of State: you are making thousands of people lose the benefit of this bonus!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u234	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u235	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] Our position is simple: let us apply the same rule as last year, without any limit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u236	Yes, we are generous among the Gaullists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u237	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u238	I will start with a tautology: the main quality of an exceptional bonus is to be exceptional – so not to repeat each year. We understand the success of this premium last year, with both companies and employees, whose purchasing power it increased. So we say "bingo", and we extend it by one year! But this additional year is accompanied by conditions: this sharing of value must take place on an ongoing basis, particularly in the TPEs and SMEs. This has not yet been said, but there is a demand which is extremely strong in TPEs and SMEs: that of concluding agreements for one, two or three years. They will therefore be able to do so. In fact, it is often there that the blockage is in the smallest companies: it is difficult for them to engage in the long term. In addition, an interest agreement is based on the company's performance. It is specific to each company, and it is therefore necessary to be able to modify its criteria; The standard agreements that we have put on-line make it easier for TPEs and SMEs to access interest, but they can also be adapted to each situation. By giving them six months, until 30 June 2020, to reflect on these agreements, we allow companies to take the time to reflect on their performance criteria. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, with regard to attractiveness, I would point out that the provisions made for companies with less than 250 employees on the social package naturally apply to those with less than 11 employees. This measure is very favourable for businesses, accounting for 20% less of the costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u239	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u240	Let us not misunderstand: I absolutely do not want to question this bonus that we voted for. We hope that it will be renewed, in the same way – according to the announcements of the President of the Republic and the Government, who did not speak of conditions, but of a full renewal. I would like to congratulate our rapporteur-general on the double back salto he has just achieved: in committee he was in favour of Paul Christophe's amendment, and this afternoon he gave his personal opinion here, while his role is to give that of the committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u241	I said that in committee I was sensitive to these arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u242	Mr rapporteur-general, you are in favour of Amendment No 700, since you are the rapporteur of the committee – we are not asking for Mr Veran's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u243	It's the "at the same time"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u244	I would like to remind the Government that an agreement of interest is first and foremost a negotiation between the parties. It is not a document that, coming from the ministry, is put online before being signed by people. The whole point of such agreements is to bring the employee and the employer closer together; It's not about copying papers designed by I don't know who in the ministry! A paper that comes from above, it is called a circular, not an agreement of interest... I would like to draw your attention to the USSRAF, which is now very meticulous with regard to this type of document, and which does not hesitate to impose adjustments on companies which do not have a formal agreement of interest! However, I am not sure that a document, even from the state and signed by both parties, is still recognised by the USSRAF. I'm telling you the way I think it is, and I know them pretty well, I assure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u245	Thank you for closing, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u246	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group as well as on several benches of the LR group]] I support Paul Christophe's amendment, which has become that of the Committee on Social Affairs: that we demand an agreement in large companies, why not? They usually have the means to conclude it. But let's stop thinking that the TPEs will sign! If we want to kill the trade and the TPEs, let's keep going!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u247	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u248	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u249	I doubt that this measure has significantly changed the sharing of value in our country. The problem is, above all, the signal she's sending: she's ringing the wage! This is a bonus paid without the rights that accompany a salary, and which, unlike him, is not lasting. So it's a reward rather than a reward, and it's a matter of concern to us: for our part, we think that we should encourage salary adjustments, which you do not do. The question that you intend to resolve, in the end, will not be resolved. That is why we too propose to subject this premium to conditions in order to limit its perverse effects. Of course, companies can make use of it, but in a reasonable manner; Our feeling is that here, we're going too far. We mentioned some of these conditions earlier; Paul Christophe and Francis Vercamer proposed another to the committee, which adopted it. Others could be proposed: condition the possibility of paying the premium on salary adjustments, in forms that remain to be defined, or on the commitment to create jobs. In my view, therefore, we need to think better about the objectives of this premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u250	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u251	To go in the direction of Pierre Dharréville and to respond to the personal opinion expressed by the rapporteur-general, I would first like to point out that the cost estimated by the report we were referring to is EUR 600 million: in fact, these are fewer rights for employees. In order to take stock of this measure, we called for the evaluation of ACOSS. However, she already told us last June, and more recently, by her president's voice, that in the first quarter of 2009, when the premium was paid, the number of employees had increased by 0.5%, but that the average wage had fallen by 0.3% and that, despite the increase in the number of employees, the wage bill had increased by only 0.1%, after an increase of 0.9% in the last quarter of 2008. At his hearing, the ACOSS president also told us that in the fourth quarter of 2018, the increase in payroll had been 0.8% and that it had decreased by 0.3% in the first quarter of this year. This is the demonstration, without waiting for further data from ACOSS, that there has been a substitution effect of this activity premium to the increase in wages and that, in reality, the aim sought has unfortunately not been achieved at this stage. That is why, before renewing what was to be exceptional, we should have carefully assessed it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u252	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 700 and 143.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u253	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 100 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 49 Against 51
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u254	Amendment No 1822 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u255	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor to support Amendment No. 1833.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u256	It aims to make it possible to modulate the payment and the amount of the premium according to the agents and the employees, according to a model validated by the Court of Cassation in 2013. Employers will thus benefit from greater flexibility to enhance employee involvement and work, while respecting the principle of equal treatment. This modulation will open up opportunities for employees and agents: it is a question of recognition of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u258	I propose that you withdraw your amendment, since the mechanism provided for makes it possible, by its criteria, to reconcile the employer's margin of manoeuvre with respect for equality between employees. Like last year, the Government proposes a scheme that cannot lead to a discriminatory allowance between the different employees of the same company.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u260	I also propose that this amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u261	Do you maintain your amendment, Mrs De Temmerman?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u262	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u263	Amendment No 1838 by the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u264	I call Mr Adrien Quatennens to support Amendment No. 547.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u265	The Group of the European People's Party is obviously opposed, as a matter of principle, to this exceptional bonus mechanism, which, it must be said, will have only a rustinous effect. We prefer wage increases to a large extent. It is clear, however, that this premium has largely replaced the idea of an increase in wages. Moreover, the mere fact that you are now putting conditions on the award of this premium means that many companies that paid it last year are already announcing that it will not pay it this year. Beyond this point, the debate that has been between us since last night is always the same: it concerns the exemption from contributions. The result of these exemptions is that all the gifts you would like to make employees benefit from are actually gifts that you ask them to pay themselves, since their cost will grapple with their own caisses: pension funds and contribution funds depend directly on wage and employer contributions. Increasing wages also means increasing contributions. If you raise wages in this country, if only 1%, you will have an additional 2.5 billion contributions in the caisses, in particular to finance pensions. Since you are very concerned about transparency, Mrs Fiat's amendment, which I am defending here, proposes an unprecedented transparency exercise: so that it can no longer be said that reducing contributions means raising salaries, we would like to see exactly what the contributions of employees finance on the payroll. In this way, they can see what it means to lower contributions: it is potentially, tomorrow, less pensions and less funding for health. As you have said on several occasions, we must be transparent. Well, we call on you here by inviting you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u267	I spoke earlier about the need to assess the potential impact. That being said, how can we consider that there will be an impact, when we have written in the law that there would be no impact? There is therefore a need to develop the means to assess and even impose sanctions where appropriate. We will have an opportunity to reassess the situation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You propose to indicate, on the payroll of employees who have received the exceptional premium, the loss of social security contributions and the loss of revenue for the State. If we go in this direction, do you know what we can say on the payroll? The increase in purchasing power per employee, which amounted to 450 euros for 5 million employees in this country; the number of jobs that have been saved in French companies and the number of jobs created in these companies; export figures, and those that measure the quality of life and purchasing power of the French. In short, the list is potentially endless: you can also see things by their positive side, and not always by the side that worries you. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u268	We only ask for the mention of information, don't worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u270	Disadvantaged too. I agree with the rapporteur, since the aim of this premium is to add to the results of the compulsory annual negotiations. I will give a figure, as we were talking about evaluation. We do not yet have all the figures for 2019, but you know that there are barometers held by private bodies. I note that, according to the Randstad barometer, the gross remuneration of non-executive private employees increased by 1.8%. We are therefore at a level equivalent to that of 2018, and we see that the premium has had an additive effect. Therefore, there is no need to focus on the payroll – which is not a leaflet, but a means of communicating elements of contributions – facts that have not been objected to...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u271	It's information!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u272	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u273	It is not a question of making the payroll a tract, Madam Secretary of State, be reassured on this point. We are simply proposing an exercise of transparency. But we may not need it if you do not spend your time explaining that contributions are simply burdens on employees. The transparency exercise that we are proposing is simply a reminder of what you know very well, but that you refuse to admit: purchasing power is not measured by the net wage. If the net salary increases by a few tens of euros but at the same time, reimbursements of care, especially hospital, or pensions, decrease, well, you always do only one thing: take in one pocket what you put in the other. We must stop lying to the workers in this country. When you give tax gifts to those who already have the most, they are unpaid gifts, and you do not ask them to make any effort whatsoever. [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] But in this case, you say to the French: "We're going to give you gifts, but you're going to pay them, make them and pack them. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u274	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u275	That's what you say when you drop the contributions! Things have to be said: it's a simple game of cups, your business, not a real increase. Finally, do you want us to look at precisely what those whose incomes are the lowest of an increase in these incomes do? Look at what they have done with this bonus, it accredits the thesis that, rather than creating exceptions, it would be to increase wages: when those whose incomes are the lowest receive an extra sum, they consume, unlike those to whom you have redistributed the most. This is good for the activity of our economy, contrary to all that you have done since the beginning of this quinquennium, which has only had the effect of increasing inequality and poverty in this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u276	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u277	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u278	I just want to remind Mr Quatennens that this exceptional bonus is only awarded to employees who receive less than three times the SMIC. Your thesis, according to which we give money only to the rich and always favor the richest, falls completely to the water on this point. On the other hand, this premium represents a real increase in purchasing power. I can't let you say it's a loss of pay: it's not! Employees' contributions remain the same, and the benefits for them remain the same. On the other hand, this exceptional bonus allows employers, particularly within SMEs, to make a gesture that they could not otherwise afford. It therefore also promotes links within the company. It is also once again a way of encouraging employees and entrepreneurs to move towards value-sharing. This is important, especially since the premium is particularly intended, not for managers of companies, but for employees who earn less than three SMICs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u279	The Rules of Procedure want, in principle, that, after the opinions of the committee and the Government on an amendment, only two speakers, one in favour and one against, will be given the floor. I admit, however, that on such an important subject, a greater number of speakers can speak; But, in return, I'm a little shortening the intervention time. I would therefore like to thank Mr Boris Vallaud for being brief.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u280	At the risk of repeating myself, I wonder about the reality of the increase in purchasing power brought about by this premium, given the concomitance found by ACOSS between the creation of this exceptional premium and the contraction of the wage bill in the first quarter of 2009. The rapporteur-general was present when the president of ACOSS was heard by the committee: he did not say anything else. I would therefore like to ask ourselves whether, in fact, we are not watering the sand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u281	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u282	I was talking about gross wages, not net wages, mentioning that increase. On the other hand, your question is useful, and that is why the rapporteur-general proposed that the subject be discussed in the spring of the evaluation. However, the wage bill is also a mix of jobs and skills, which are not necessarily exercised by the same people. Therefore, if there are fewer temporary workers, if wage structures change and if employees start their businesses, as has often happened in this period, this must be taken into account. I see, in the light of the data from the mandatory annual negotiations and the barometers transmitted to us by the private sector – which we certainly have not audited – an increase, similar to last year, in the gross salary of non-managers of 1.8%, which is higher than inflation. That's the gross effect I can tell you. I do not comment, we will have every opportunity to do so during the spring of the evaluation. It seems to me a little hasty to draw conclusions, even if the first elements are rather campaigning for measurement. Instead, you advocate linking the exceptional bonus – and which is intended to remain so, I grant it to you – to the signing of agreements of interest, which contribute to the best sharing of the value you call your vows.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u283	Amendment No 1827 by Mr Olivier Véran is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u284	I have before me two identical amendments Nos 701 and 1340, which are the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos 2063 and 2064. On these amendments, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 701.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u285	Mrs El Haïry will present the amendment much better than I do since she is on the initiative. It concerns small associations which wish to be exempted from the signing of an interest agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u286	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1340.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u287	This amendment, adopted almost unanimously in the Committee on Social Affairs, has succeeded in transcending divisions. Who are the beneficiaries? They are, of course, the employees of the voluntary sector. It is to support them that the amendment has been adopted very broadly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u288	The Secretary of State has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 2063.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u289	It seems that all these banks wish to take account of the particular situation of non-profit associations. The culture of interest exists only in very large associations whose model is similar to that of the company. By requiring all associations to sign agreements, we risk depriving them of the possibility of giving their employees more purchasing power. The Government therefore supports these identical amendments. However, as drafted, they exclude non-profit associations that pursue a purpose of general interest and are authorized to receive tax-reducing donations. The purpose of the sub-amendment is therefore to broaden the scope of the measure. Maybe we'll have to rework that device again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u290	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u291	I ask for a suspension of a few minutes, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u292	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u293	The meeting was resumed. On sub-amendment No 2064, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Le Fur to support this sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u294	I appreciate the Government's efforts to broaden the scope of application. As you know, I am in favour of a return to last year's scheme, which was aimed at any private employee. The purpose of the sub-amendment is to allow individual employers to pay the exceptional premium to their employees. Hundreds of thousands of people are affected. I am thinking in particular of the kindergarten assistants, who will never tell enough what they do for families. So far, families have been able to give them a gratuity. Thanks to my sub-amendment, they will be able to continue to do so. I am also thinking of individual employers, who are in the same situation. Finally, I mentioned earlier that some people who work with parliamentarians could also benefit from such bonuses. My sub-amendment is in line with yours, Madam Secretary of State. It follows a consistent logic: whatever the occupation, if the employer has the means and the will to award a bonus, it can do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u295	What is the Committee's opinion on the sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u296	Opinion in favour of the Government's sub-amendment. On the other hand, I am against Mr Le Fur's sub-amendment, which amounts to a self-allocation of premiums without taxation or social contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u297	It was possible last year!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u298	This raises the issue of the scope defined in 2019 and not renewed this year. The opinion cannot therefore be favourable at this stage; But perhaps the debate on this relevant issue will continue in further reading, after consideration in the Senate. Given the magnitude of the proposed measure and its possible financial consequences, it may require a little more than two minutes of suspension of the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u299	What is the Government's opinion on the identical amendments and on Subamendment No. 2064?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u300	Favourable to the identical amendments, subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment I have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u301	What about Mr Le Fur's subamendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u302	Favourable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u303	I am against Mr Le Fur's sub-amendment. Perhaps we can continue the conversation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u304	The word "discussion" is preferable to that of conversation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u305	... or the debate, if you wish, but, in the relationship between an employer and his employee – as a general rule, he is a single employee, the nanny for example – the balance of power in the negotiation is rarely favourable to the employee. To answer the questions raised on the benches on the left, one can fear a boon effect: the employer grants a defied bonus and considers himself to be part of a salary increase the following year. That is not the signal we wish to send. You're absolutely right, Mr. Le Fur, last year it was possible. However, the Government's opinion is unfavourable to date and under the benefit of an inventory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u306	Mr Paul Christophe, I thank you for being brief.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u307	The IDU, Agir and Independent Group supported the amendment by Mrs El Haïry, which had been sub-amended by the Government. It would have been a shame to deprive tens of thousands of employees of the small associations of this possible premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u308	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u309	I would like an explanation of the impact of the Government's sub-amendment. Indeed, a sub-amendment is intended to clarify and not to extend an amendment. Are the foundations targeted? More generally, who is concerned? How? It is difficult to know what we are voting on when the proposed amendments are submitted to us at the last moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u310	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u311	We can only regret that this mechanism, however critical it may be – and we have criticized it – provides a solution for only a quarter of the employees, and not for the remaining three quarters. The proposal on the table tends to broaden the scope. In order for national representation to be fully informed, it deserves to know the loss of profits that would result from this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u312	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u313	Article 7 is entitled: "Renewal of the payment of an exceptional premium exempt from social contributions and contributions". Our intention, when we examined it in committee, was to go as far as possible, because the French must be the winners in this respect. In this regard, we have had the wisdom and intelligence to include employees by associations, because we believe in the social and solidarity economy. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Mr. The Fur simply proposes to renew this bonus for employees employed by private individuals, who have already benefited from it last year: there is nothing new! If the Government's opinion were followed, the latter would be penalized, which would be unacceptable. I therefore call on the House to take all the freedom required with regard to this opinion and to validate the excellent sub-amendment advocated by Marc Le Fur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u314	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u315	We are dealing here with a major subject relating to the equality of all French people, regardless of whether they are, including modest employees, child care workers or employees serving the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u316	People who do a lot of services!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u317	This bonus, like last year, must be able to be given to all the French without distinction, because if not, the result would be catastrophic for their morale. We must therefore go much further than the text proposes and support Mr Le Fur's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u318	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u319	The La France insoumée group does not support this scheme, because it considers that not having to pay social contributions amounts to giving with one hand what is taken up by the other, because they are all public services which the beneficiaries of the premium will not be able to enjoy in return. However, given that we are not able to stop your ardour in extending this system downside, we do not see why all French people could not benefit from it, in the name of the national motto "Freedom, equality, fraternity", which requires that, when we say yes to one, we must say yes to the other. We will therefore vote in favour of these amendments, while recalling that we do not like this mechanism. You will also see, Madam Secretary of State, that we agree: Mr Le Fur's subamendment has consequences, which justify our request to include this premium on the payroll.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u320	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u321	For my part – without knowing the nature of the vote of my colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group – I will choose to abstain on these amendments. For, if I agree with the idea of respecting the principle of equality, I remain dubitative as to the effect of the measure on wages – it seems that the latter has produced a substitution effect of at least 80% – and extremely reserved on the principle of desocialisation. So, one in the other, it leads me to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u322	I put to the vote sub-amendment No 2064.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u323	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 105 Number of votes cast 98 Absolute majority 50 For adoption 37 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u324	What a sectarianism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u325	I put to the vote the identical amendments Nos 701 and 1340, which were not amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u326	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 109 Number of votes cast 98 Absolute majority 50 For adoption 88 Against 10
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u327	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 576.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u328	I do not know whether everyone is measuring the scope of the vote which he has just taken on sub-amendment No 2064 which I had the honour to present to you. It concerns people who have been fighting for years for their profession to be recognized. However, whether they are family home workers or child care workers, you explain to them that they do not have a real job. While all employees of associations will be able to benefit from this bonus – which is a good thing – like employees of companies – which is also a good thing – you point the finger at the entire categories of the population. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect, because, in doing so, you are marginalizing an audience that only asks for recognition of these professions. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] You also argue that we must stand alongside people in difficulty. But you do not apply this recommendation to yourself. Similarly, you invite us to support families, while you forget the maternal assistants who play a leading role with them. Finally, you will explain to your employees that you are denying them access to a bonus that they could claim last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u329	There is no need to challenge them to pay them a bonus!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u330	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Le Fur speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u331	In any event, Amendment No 576 which I am defending is to make the scheme renewable beyond this year. Since this is considered a good measure, it must be possible to extend it, knowing that, from one finance law to another, it will always be possible to abolish it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u333	I tell you again, Mr Le Fur, that a sub-amendment as important as the one you have defended requires more debate – and not "conversations" – to resume your term – than the two minutes of suspension of sitting that we have had. You did not introduce this sub-amendment during the consideration of the bill in committee, during which we discussed this exceptional bonus extensively, and we will still have an opportunity to discuss it in the Senate and at second reading. Therefore, please do not use our debates in this Chamber to bring us a trial of intent on a lack of interest that we would bring to one category of the population requiring as much help as others, if not more so in the case of the kindergarten assistants to which you referred. No one at any time aims to stigmatize any audience: we work for the purchasing power of the entire population.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u334	No, you don't treat them like the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u335	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The removal of the housing tax concerns child care workers, as well as the reduction of taxes by €5 billion foreseen by the PLF, the reduction of contributions or the reduction of the generalised social contribution – CSG. Thank you, therefore, for not making us a bad trial: we will have the opportunity to continue our reflection on the bonus. As for the opportunity to sustain this system now, it would require a change of title: the bonus would no longer be "exceptional", but would become annual. But to the extent that this is not the purpose of the Social Security Financing Bill, I will express an opinion against your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u336	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u337	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u338	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u339	I cannot hear, Mr rapporteur-general, the double standards that you impose on us. This Government spends its time tabling amendments and sub-amendments that have not previously been discussed in committee. For example, extremely heavy financial arrangements, not only with regard to the finance law and the social security budget, but more generally with regard to all the texts submitted, are not studied by anyone before their discussion in public session. You cannot therefore use this argument that our sub-amendment could not receive a favourable opinion because it was not submitted to the committee's filter. The Government has been a specialist in this practice, as well as in the second deliberations. As soon as a vote of the National Assembly is not in accordance with its will, that of the minister or the rapporteur, a second debate is announced, without notice for the deputies. This contempt for Parliament and the work of Members, they were opposition, that's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u340	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u341	Mr. The Fur asks a very good question...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u342	Like many times!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u343	... and I would like to give you an appointment next year, when you will no doubt propose a renewal of the scheme when we have not had any real substantive debate on the possibility of setting it up for a long time and therefore of changing the structure of remuneration on a lasting basis. We can see that this bonus tends to be established as a long-term method of remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u344	On the identical amendments Nos 960 and 1037, the Socialist and related groups have asked for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me two amendments, Nos 961 and 962, which can be presented together. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u345	I was not planning to do that, Madam President. The services of the sitting – I do not blame them – have classified these amendments into disorder: it would have been necessary to start by examining Amendment No 960, which aims to resocialise this premium. We shall first consider the two withdrawal amendments, which seek to verify how far the Government is prepared to go in resocializing this premium. Amendment No 961 proposes to cut the pear in two – to make half anchovies, half cheese, as proposed by the pizzerias in Marseilles – by resocialising the premium only at a modest 50% level. I measure the relatively frontal disagreement on this subject in the Chamber and my proposal would help to achieve a balance. As contributions resulting from this remuneration by a premium are not completely abolished, we would send the signal of a return to normal compared to the previous year and would say that it is important that it also contribute to the financing of social rights, without cancelling its incentive effect. This proposal seems to me to be able to attract unanimity in the House, so I am defending it first.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u346	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u347	I will allow myself an answer to the Marseilles for Mr. Dharréville, who was talking about pizzas. You propose to reduce the impact of the bonus by restoring a larger or smaller share of contributions: 10, 50 or 90%. So I'll tell you that by adding water to pastis you lose the taste, flavor and appetite for nap. So my opinion will obviously be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u348	There's not much water in your pastis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u349	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 960 and 1037. Amendment No 960 by Mr Pierre Dharréville was defended. Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 1037.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u350	We call for the resocialisation of the exceptional premium to avoid amputating the social security budget. When, due to a serious illness, employees are absent for several months, they lose the benefit of the premiums in question. By replacing more and more bonuses with salary increases, many French people face great difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u351	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos. 960 and 1037, rejected by the committee and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u352	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 84 Number of votes cast 84 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 14 Against 70
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u353	Mr Christophe Naegelen, in support of Amendment No. 966, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u354	It aims to express our group's attachment to the symbolic value of the payroll, which marks the recognition of the work accomplished. Therefore, we would like the amount of the activity premium collected to be entered on the payroll, subject to conditions set by order-in-council. It is important that by receiving the employee's payroll the employee can identify the premium received.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u355	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u356	I don't know if you were aiming for the activity bonus or the exceptional bonus; the article concerns the exceptional premium, but the text of your amendment refers to the activity premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u357	The exceptional bonus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u358	Whatever the premium is considered, its amount cannot appear on the payroll, even though I share the intention that guided the drafting of your amendment. I agree with you, and having conditioned the payment of an exceptional bonus on the existence of a plan of interest shows that the objective is to better distribute wealth and reward work to its fair value. That is the spirit of the article. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u359	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u360	I will supplement the rapporteur-general's remarks, and perhaps correct them slightly, if he permits. The Labour Code provides, Mr. Member, that the payroll shall indicate the totality of the remuneration received by the employees. This includes salary, overtime where applicable, and the exceptional bonus – not the activity bonus. The bonus is on the payroll, so your amendment is satisfied. I suppose you want it to be more visible; I'm not sure it's necessary. The payroll is already complex; There are many exemptions and exemptions for employees – some ministers have left their names on the list. The Minister of Labour and I have jointly adopted a decree to simplify it when setting up the source levy on income tax: from now on, employees see the net wage and, when they are liable for income tax, the net wage, net after tax. In the case of de-socialization or de-socialization, a statement indicates that such an amount is not included in the income tax calculation. Your amendment is therefore satisfied; the bonus is indicated on the French wage bulletins, it is not necessary to adopt a standard that requires to enter it in large print. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u361	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u362	We would have liked this bonus to be annual, not exceptional; Its exceptional character makes it all the more visible. I understand the argument, we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u363	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1138.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u364	We've already looked at this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u365	As you have understood, the Republican Group believes that no employee should be excluded from these measures in favour of purchasing power. As we said in the discussion on Article 7: the existence of an interest plan may appear to be too restrictive for some small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u366	We have already had this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u367	We therefore propose to exempt companies with fewer than 11 employees from fulfilling this obligation in order to pay the exceptional premium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u368	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 461.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u369	This one, too, we've already examined it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u370	This amendment proposed by Olivier Dassault, Member of Parliament for the Oise, incorporates the measures contained in Bill No. 283 which he had tabled on 17 October 2017. The aim is to offer employers who wish to do so the possibility of encouraging and rewarding the work of employees with a maximum premium of EUR 1000 per year, which would not be charged or taxed for either party. In 2019, this bonus was paid to employees by 408,000 companies: a real success. Unfortunately, this text conditions its renewal to the existence of a plan of interest. Encouraging companies to promote such a scheme is a good initiative, but it should not be backed up by other measures encouraging purchasing power. The Government is building a gas plant that will only be disappointed, on the part of both employees and entrepreneurs, and will therefore lead to abandonment. For these reasons, I invite you to adopt Olivier Dassault's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u371	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u372	We discussed this issue extensively during the discussion of Article 7; the opinion remains unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u373	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u374	From 2021 onwards, employers with at least 11 employees in certain sectors of activity will have a bonus-malus mechanism applied to their employer's unemployment insurance contributions. The aim is to vary the rate of contribution to unemployment insurance upwards or downwards, depending on the rate of separation of the enterprise, i.e. the number of purposes of employment contracts which give rise to registration at Pôle Emploi, outside the missions, in relation to the reference separation rate of the sector of activity. This separation rate will therefore be compared with the rate of other employers in the sector, in order to determine whether the rate of the unemployment insurance contribution should be reduced – bonus – or increased – malus. Last summer, hoteliers warned about the risk of confusion between short contracts and extras. Some companies whose activities require extras – not short contracts – should not be penalized by this mechanism. A bonus-malus scheme on unemployment contributions may have a positive effect on the behaviour of companies, but we must ensure that we do not penalize those who, because of their own activity, have no choice but to use CSDs. In addition, the bonus should not lead to excessive rewards for companies that merely abide by the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u375	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u376	We consider this article to be a problem, since it provides that employers' contributions will be adjusted according to the number of contracts concluded, in order to encourage companies to use longer contracts. As you know, the situation in France is dramatic: 87% of hirings are in CSDs, and for a third of them the contract is a day or less: the labour market is experiencing extreme precariousness. We do not believe at all that the bonus-malus method is a solution. Of course, we share the view that the end of the CSD standard is a huge problem. However, the bonuses granted to companies will have an impact on unemployment insurance. In addition, they suggest that contributions are sanctions, from which companies could be exempt. This view of national solidarity is questionable, especially in the context of a reform of unemployment insurance which will have a negative impact on 40% of jobseekers. In addition, we have often discussed it, there is a problem of balance between incentives and obligations. Either we let companies decide for themselves whether they will pay or not, hoping that they will be virtuous and improve their practices, or we decide as legislator to make an act of law, meaning that the law must be respected and that, if it is not, sanctions apply. In no other field do we act according to this logic; We often give the example of the road code: when a driver who has respected the speed limits is stopped, do we give him a hundred euros?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u377	That'd be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u378	That would be absurd! Compliance with the law must not be enhanced; Conversely, clear sanctions must exist to avoid building a gas plant, as you are doing. Without sanctions, the law we make is just a piece of paper; However, with this text, you let companies decide whether they want to comply with it, especially since the exemption rate will be fixed by decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u379	Amendment No 1848 of the rapporteur-general is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u380	Amendment No. 1648, as corrected by the Government, is forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u381	Amendments Nos 1850 and 1857 by the rapporteur-general are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u382	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 1038.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u383	It proposes to establish a ceiling, fixed by decree, in order to avoid the effects of the " bonus-malus" reform that you propose. We are against it, and we would at least like to supervise it more: we currently have 400 companies in France whose virtuous behaviour would assume that, thanks to this scheme, social security becomes their debtor – which we consider questionable. If we are to welcome companies that go beyond their legal obligations, we must consider that those that respect them are acting normally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u384	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u385	My answer also concerns the amendments to Article 8 which will be discussed later. Article 8 aims to limit the abuse of short contracts by companies: not only do these have a negative impact on employees, but they strike unemployment insurance of 1.7 billion euros each year. The Government had therefore adopted a system of modulation in order to encourage companies to behave in a virtuous manner, while penalizing those who acted in the opposite way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u386	We understood.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u387	The more virtuous will therefore be able to benefit from a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, so that they do not suffer from unfair competition; As a mirror effect, companies that abuse short contracts will see their contribution increase. If the same company receives full general relief, is perfectly virtuous and employs salaried employees at the level of the SMIC, it almost no longer pays contributions: it could then benefit from higher remuneration than the whole of what it owes. That is the subject of your amendment, which raises the question of whether this is desirable. On the one hand, the system is already tufted and complex to establish; Adding a complication would not be such as to encourage companies to act virtuously. On the other hand, the adoption of a cap would be unfair to companies involved in combating the precariousness of workers. For these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u388	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 549 and 951. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 549.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u389	While the majority of companies in France are virtuous, some are less virtuous or not. The laws we vote on must, as a matter of principle, be respected. As long as abusing short contracts is out of the law, a malus can be imposed on companies that multiply them. If you go this way, we are ready to follow you. But by giving a bonus to those who only observe the law, you open Pandora's box. According to your logic, why not give a bonus to a motorist who has not been subjected to any minutes for a year? There is no reason why a driver who respects the speed limits should not receive any gratuity, while a boss who adheres to the letter of the law will receive one. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Let us repeat: we understand that we impose a malus on those who free themselves from the laws, but where do we go if we grant a bonus to those who respect them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u390	I call Mr Bruneel to support Amendment No. 951.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u391	Under Article 8, an employer's general reduction in social contributions on wages below 1.6 SMIC will apply without taking into account the effect of the bonus-malus on the employer's unemployment contribution introduced as part of the unemployment insurance reform. If the introduction of a malus is justified in order to punish those employers who are massively licencing or making excessive use of precarious employment, particularly in the CSDs, the payment of a bonus has no basis: it would reward an employer who merely enforces labour law or respects rules of good personnel management. We therefore propose to retain only the malus on the unemployment contribution in order to punish failing employers. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that the Court of Auditors, in its report, regretted that two ministries do not pay their social contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u392	Amendment No 622 by Mr Pierre Dharréville is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u393	The Government's amendment No. 1528 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u394	I have before me nine amendments, Nos 130, 152, 168, 439, 911, 991, 993, 1747 and 1795, which can be put to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 152, 168, 439, 911, 991, 993 and 1747 are identical. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u395	With your permission, Madam President, I shall at the same time defend Amendment No 168, which aims at the same objective as Amendment No 130, but which is drafted in a different way. Last year, during the examination of the previous PLFSS, we mentioned the case of seasonal workers, who are used by many farmers, especially wine growers, during harvests. Seasonals are also hired for the harvest of hops or beet – of which the minister knows that it is taking place at the moment in the Hauts-de-France – or the gathering of fruit in the orchards. A total of 900000 such contracts are signed each year. Last year, the Government returned to the TODE scheme – casual workers, job seekers – which was very interesting in terms of expenses and reserved for the agricultural sector. We propose to delete the 2021 deadline, which was then adopted. It is important to accompany a sector in great difficulty, which was recalled yesterday during the question-and-answer session to the Government and what we have been repeating for several months. The abolition of a reduction of some EUR 200 per season per month would result in a saving of EUR 170 million for farmers. The issue of the measure is therefore considerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u396	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u397	Mr Vincent Descoeur's amendment No 152 is being defended. Mr Julien Dive has already defended Amendment No 168. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 439.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u398	The TODE scheme – reducing the amount of wage costs paid by agricultural employers – was created, while Mr Le Maire was already a minister, to protect farmers from unfair foreign competition and, more generally, to reduce the cost of wage costs in agriculture. Last year, our discussions on this subject were heated. We had managed to maintain the system by one voice, although the ceiling had been lowered from 1.25 to 1.2 SMIC. This year, we propose that you return to the 1.25 SMIC ceiling that applied before last year's vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u399	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 91, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u400	The issue of exemption from social security contributions for casual or seasonal agricultural workers had been a strong factor in our discussions last year and, as on the subject of chambers of agriculture, opposition and majority had found themselves in order to safeguard – to one voice – the TODE system, up to a ceiling of 1.2 SMIC, against 1.25 previously and with the deadline of 1 January 2021. With these amendments, we propose that the measure should be sustained while returning to the ceiling of SMIC 1.25. This provision is essential to preserve employment in agriculture and to ensure the competitiveness of labour-intensive sectors: viticulture, arboriculture, horticulture, market gardening... It is also crucial to our economy. In 20 years, exports of French fruit and vegetables have fallen by 50%, benefiting Germany and Spain. The reasons for this decline or failure are normative inflation and distortions of competition in labour costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u401	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 991.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u402	The aim of the amendment is to extend beyond the deadline of 1 January 2021 the "TODE" exemption scheme for seasonal workers and to improve its effectiveness by raising the exemption ceiling to SMIC 1.25. If we insist so much on this measure, it is because arboriculture, market gardening, horticulture and viticulture require a lot of labour. They give work to our citizens in a context of European social dumping. Our competitors are at our borders: Spain, Italy and Germany. Last year, we reached a compromise. We wish to go further by extending the mechanism beyond the target date and by increasing its financial scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u403	I call Mr Paul Christophe to support Amendment No. 993.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u404	The amendment is aimed at solving the problems created by distortions of competition within the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u405	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 1747.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u406	The amendment is part of the continuation of the debate that we started last year, which we continued on Monday night, asking for more resources to be given to the chambers of agriculture. We hope that farmers, especially wine growers, who this year have had difficulty obtaining a satisfactory harvest, will be taken into account and that employment in the sector will be supported. Last year, our debates on the subject had been passionate. The aim of the exemption from social contributions is to strengthen farmers in their difficult task in the face of the European and global market. The sustainability of the scheme and the raising of the ceiling would be measures of common sense, which would send a strong signal to all French farmers, that they devote themselves to viticulture, arboriculture, market gardening, horticulture, wine nurseries, seeds or polyculture. By reducing the costs on 900000 contracts, we would give a boost to an important sector of the economy. The House would be wise in voting on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u407	On identical amendments Nos 152, 168, 439, 911, 991, 993 and 1747, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 1795 corrected by Mr Julien Dive is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u408	We are approaching a debate on equally important but quite varied categories, which will probably involve us for a few hours. Last year, the TODE scheme on agriculture animated the benches of the House. Mr. Lurton recalled that the balance measure adopted at that time had been adopted by a short majority. The current scheme, which allows for the retention of a specific contribution scheme, has been well accepted. Some propose to change it even though it was adopted last year and will continue to apply throughout next year. That's enough for me to express an unfavorable opinion. I would also point out that in 2020 agricultural employers will benefit from an alignment of the base with the general concessions – alignment more favourable to agricultural sectors than the TODE scheme, since it allows a total exemption on contributions below SMIC 1,2 and the reduction of sickness and family contributions. As of 1 January 2019, farmers have been exempt from 10 contribution points, which is proof that the Government and the majority have been very sensitive to the agricultural issue, which is normal. We will reopen the debate next year, as we will reach the deadline of 2021. With this in mind, I have, as I have indicated, an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u409	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u410	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u411	Mr Pascal Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u412	The TODE scheme is highly appreciated by farmers, wine growers and all those who employ seasonal labour. I hear the rapporteur's arguments, but agriculture, which faces challenges, will not be able to do so alone. The agro-ecological transition will increase the use of labour. The elimination of plant protection products will increase the practice and lead to the hiring of seasonal staff in fields, plots, vines and orchards. It is essential for society as a whole to recognize, through special mechanisms, the need to reduce the wage burden in agriculture, which now offers all our citizens affordable products.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u413	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 152, 168, 439, 911, 991, 993 and 1747.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u414	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 93 Number of votes cast 91 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 36 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u415	I have before me three amendments, Nos 48, 937 and 1151, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 937 and 1151 are identical. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u416	In a nationally tense demographic context, the issue of medical presence is of concern to all of us. While rural areas are particularly affected by the lack of general practitioners and specialists, they are not the only ones, as the problem also arises in some neighbourhoods and small towns. The amendment aims to establish free medical zones in order to strengthen the attractiveness of these territories. This would make it possible to get to the end of the incentive logic. My proposal hides a question: how long will our health care system be able to maintain without regulating the installation of doctors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u417	I call Mr Vercamer to support Amendment No. 937.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u418	It aims to combat medical deserts. As you know, if the paramedical professions are forced by RHAs – regional health agencies – to settle in these areas, this is not the case for doctors. Incentive policies already exist, but installation aid seems insufficient to address the problem of medical desertification. The amendment aims to create free zones, which would encourage the installation of doctors in specific areas, by exempting them from social security contributions for a period defined by decree. The important issue of free zones was addressed by the Prime Minister himself. According to a dispatch from France Info of 23 April, he wanted to see it dealt with in a law on health. Under these conditions, we could agree on this, Madam Minister – assuming that Mr Darmanin is so in favour of it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u419	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1151.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u420	I will briefly supplement my colleague's remarks – our amendments have the same purpose. We are still looking for solutions to the shortage of medical services in certain areas. The exemption mechanism we are proposing is an incentive. The geographical boundaries concerned would be determined by the SRAs, and would thus be part of a policy of spatial planning and strengthening the supply of services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u421	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u422	We will discuss these issues when we consider clause 36 of the bill, which deals with the installation of doctors in medical deserts. In particular, it is proposed to exempt doctors who settle in areas defined as subdenses from contributions for two years. The provisions of this article would strengthen and update existing arrangements to facilitate the installation of physicians. Your proposal gives too much weight to the regulatory power. If it were adopted, it would no longer be possible for Members to discuss the choice of areas where contribution exemptions should be introduced. The mechanism that was preferred to yours in the bill strengthens access to care and the provision of care. The majority and the Minister of Health are fully mobilized by the crucial question of the installation and placement of doctors over the life of their doctors, especially as the problem concerns more and more territories. I suggest that you withdraw your amendment. Its application would give too much to regulatory power. We must keep the possibility of discussing these issues in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u423	I have before me three amendments, Nos 47, 1003 and 888, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 47 and 1003 are identical. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u424	Madam Minister, I asked you a simple question: how long will our health care system be able to maintain without regulating the installation of doctors? I would like to have an answer from you on an important subject for our fellow citizens. This amendment, which Thibault Bazin and I had already defended last year, aims to increase the benefits of cumulative employment-retirement for doctors working in underfunded areas. Mr General, last year you gave us an appointment for the review of the PLFSS for 2020. Here we go. You also asked the Government to provide "facts, figures, facts". Madam Minister, what about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u425	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor to support Amendment No. 1003.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u426	It is identical to the previous one. The aim of the amendment is to increase the benefits of cumulative employment and retirement for doctors working in under-funded areas. The aim is to strengthen the incentives to continue working for those of retirement age. In Savoie, particularly in the valley of Maurienne, where my constituency is located, over the next ten years, thirteen doctors out of twenty-seven could retire, as they will have reached 61 years of age. You had the numerus clausus removed. Exemptions from contributions for certain physician facilities are provided for in the PLFSS. Simply, the effects of these measures will not appear for one, two or three years. The proposed scheme, which is based on current physicians, would be useful in the meantime.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u427	Amendment No 888 by Mrs Annie Genevard is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u428	Mr Brun, I have some good news: the date you were given is today. It's time for the balance sheet. The exemption limit for retired doctors who have resumed or continue an activity was EUR 80000. In our conversation last year, it was 40,000 euros. For example, the monthly working income of the doctors concerned can be as high as 7,000 euros, not to mention the pension they receive. Remuneration issues have become less acute for retired doctors whose activities we want to promote in under-density areas. Land-use planning issues, on the other hand, need to be addressed. The minister will tell you about the opportunity for coercive measures, which we have been debating every year for 15 years. If we have not introduced it, it is because we know from the beginning that this type of measure does not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u429	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u430	Unfavorable opinion. We have already discussed this issue on numerous occasions, during the examination of the two previous PLFSSs, the proposal for a law on emergency measures to combat medical desertification introduced by the deputies of the Socialist Group, and the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system in July.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u431	We will continue to ask the question, because that is the first concern of our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u432	I'm not going to take the whole argument. In any case, when demography is in the dark, coercive measures are counterproductive. Keep this figure in mind: at the end of their medical studies, only 5% of doctors wish to practise in a liberal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u433	You should ask yourself why!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u434	If we try to go through coercion, we know that they will turn away from general liberal medicine. They will prefer one of the many job offers that will allow them to escape coercive measures. For this reason, we have adopted an access plan, "my health 2022", which includes many incentives, which take into account the aspirations of professionals to work in a group, in a coordinated manner within a territory. A dynamic has emerged. Health homes have grown by 37% in one year. Since the adoption of the law, some 200 CPTS projects – territorial health professional communities – have emerged.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u435	These structures are empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u436	Let us not despair the doctors with coercive measures that will have no other effect than to dissuade them from settling in deserted areas. Let us trust the mechanisms that we have redesigned – the provisions of article 36, in particular, would allow incentives to be grouped together and their readability increased. We shall resume this debate when we consider this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u437	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u438	Minister, you're not asking yourself the right questions. Instead, ask yourself why so few doctors want to practise as liberal generalists at the end of their studies. Younger doctors, like their elders, complain that their profession has become functional. They spend half the time with their eyes riveted on their computer, busy with administrative procedures, so they do not have enough time to devote themselves to their patients. The definition of medicine should be reworked to enhance the attractiveness of this profession. That is the problem, but you do not take it into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u439	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u440	Young medical graduates tell us that they want to work where quality, well-organized medicine...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u441	At least it's clear! Quality medicine, well organized, is not for rural areas!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u442	... in networks, is possible. They are not just interested in installation aids. It is important for them to have an organization that allows them to feel supervised and to know where to send their patients in order to practice good quality medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u443	I have before me three amendments, Nos 814, 978 and 815, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 814 and 978 are identical. Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 814.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u444	Madam Minister, rapporteur, you are right. You stand by, since the decree published in the Official Journal of 4 June increases the ceiling for the exemption from pension contributions from 1 January 2020. This amendment goes further and further strengthens the attractiveness of cumulative employment and retirement. We need retired doctors in the countryside to deal with medical desertification. The amendment would make it possible to exempt these doctors from all contributions – not only from retirement but also from social contributions – if their annual income from activity does not exceed EUR 80000.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u445	Amendment No 978 by Mrs Emilie Bonnivard is being defended. Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to support Amendment No. 815.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u446	It is an amendment of withdrawal. Unlike the previous one, the exemption from all social and pension contributions would only be introduced for areas defined as underdenses by the SRA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u447	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 129 and 1629. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u448	I already tabled this amendment at the PLFSS 2016 – although I have changed it since – and at the time it had aroused the interest of the Government. Mr Jean-Carles Grelier defended it in committee last week and the rapporteur-general then stressed the value of this measure. It is in a way a question of creating a decompression airlock for the craftsmen who form an apprentice for whom they have invested and to whom they have trusted by teaching him a trade. The aim is for these craftsmen, whatever they may be, to benefit from a degressive reduction in expenses when they hire an apprentice on an indefinite contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u449	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 1629.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u450	Like Mr Dive, we want to show our commitment to small businesses, not least to the world of crafts and commerce, but also to learning and alternation. The aim is to facilitate the hiring in CDI of an apprentice by an undertaking which has previously trained him, by exempting him from 66% of the social and wage charges attached to the apprentice in question, who became an employee, during the year of employment in CDI. This exemption would gradually decrease each year to the total contribution rate in the third year following the signing of the CDI. This step-by-step measure would send an interesting signal not only to those who take the paths of learning, but also to the learning teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u451	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u452	[[Murmures on the benches of the LR group]] Disadvantaged opinion, as in the following amendment by Mr Dive, which also concerns apprentices. We have had this debate in committee, and I have confirmed the interest that must be attached to the question of apprentices. It is not the inhabitants of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region that I am, who deplore the drastic cuts in vocational training and apprenticeship credits in the region, which will say the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u453	Absolutely: it's a fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u454	Yes, supporting learning in Paris is good, but it must still be supported in the regions! In any event, by this amendment, you are targeting companies that already benefit from a very large general reduction in contributions for all wages below 1.6 SMIC, i.e. the vast majority of apprentices covered by the amendment. In addition, it is very difficult to estimate the actual impact of a degressive measure as proposed by you, as it would result in complex threshold effects as well as exemptions that will again raise the question of compensation due to social security. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u455	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u456	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u457	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u458	Learning and alternation are a problem. It is not the apprentices who are missing but the companies that are hosting them. In France, apprenticeship does not take place because there are not enough companies to accommodate apprentices on alternance, whether under apprenticeship contracts or professionalisation contracts. This problem must not be taken lightly: it is absolutely necessary for companies to find themselves there. Otherwise, if it costs them more to welcome an apprentice – who also has to attend classes – than to recruit an ordinary employee, they won't take any more. That is why I believe that our amendment should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u459	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 1602.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u460	This amendment has the same objective as the previous one, but with a slightly different device. It consists of an exemption from the employer's contribution for earnings equal to or less than 1.7 SMIC and a decrease in the rate of pay set by decree – the Government will therefore have the hand – between 1.7 and 2.6 SMIC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u461	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor to support Amendment No. 1366.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u462	It aims to clarify the characterisation as a professional tool of the service card of the 55,000 employees covered by the national collective agreement for urban transport. Indeed, this card is of course necessary for the day-to-day performance of all the tasks of all public transport operators, employers, whatever they may be. For bus controllers, for example, the work card is clearly a work tool, not an easy way to travel privately. While, over the past ten years, all the funds of the USSRAF systematically assimilated this service card to a work tool, some recent checks have freed themselves from this doctrine on the grounds that the service card constituted an advantage in kind involving marginal payment of social contributions, resulting in a loss of purchasing power for the employees concerned. The amendment is therefore intended to exempt service cards from social contributions. This is a neutral measure for public finances since it would restore the original doctrine of the USSRAF. It would also make it possible to settle very costly disputes and to secure the work of the 55,000 employees concerned, who need this card to work. The amendment is therefore intended to exempt service cards from social contributions. This is a neutral measure for public finances since it would restore the original doctrine of the USSRAF. It would also make it possible to settle very costly disputes and to secure the work of the 55,000 employees concerned, who need this card to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u463	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u464	It is true, Madam Member, that we had this debate last year. You are proposing the creation of a specific exemption regime for RATP service card holders. I do not deny the legitimate nature of the application in view of the arguments you have put forward, but should a specific exemption scheme be created for these employees? This would result in a very unstable legal situation between employees who benefit from a collective agreement and those who do not benefit from it. As last year, and for the same reasons, I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u465	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u466	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u467	Do you maintain your amendment, Mrs. Rossi?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u468	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u469	I have before me three amendments, Nos 449, 1083 and 532, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendments Nos 449 and 1083 are identical. I call Mrs Jeanine Dubie to support Amendment No. 449.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u470	This amendment aims to ensure that public institutions for the elderly, whether EHPADs or long-term care units, the USLDs, benefit from the six-point reduction in the health insurance contribution. Private institutions benefiting from the competitiveness and employment tax credit, the CICE, and non-profit organisations which, on the other hand, benefited from the wage tax credit, the CITS, all benefit from a 6% reduction in the health insurance contribution. However, public institutions do not benefit from it, which creates a distortion of treatment, whereas they receive the same type of population. Above all, this has an impact on the day price: the decrease in the cost of staff costs affects the day price decided by the establishment. I would also like to see a check on whether the commercial establishments benefiting from this six-point reduction affect the daily price they apply to their residents. In any event, the amendment aims to enable public institutions in this sector to benefit from the same reduction in health insurance costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u471	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 1083.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u472	This amendment, identical to the previous one, aims to harmonise the reductions in social contributions between private and public sector EHPADs. In this case, it seems unfair to me that public-sector EHPADs are not subject to the same rules as private-sector EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u473	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 532.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u474	I would add, to defend this amendment similar to the previous ones, that it is interesting from the point of view of public-private convergence. In many cases, public institutions are by nature inclusive of all types of public services and, above all, of low-income persons. If adopted, such an amendment would support establishments that are fairly distributed throughout the territory. I do not understand why, in 2019, this disparity persists between public and private institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u475	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u476	The landscape of EHPADs is complex, as is that of all health and medical-social institutions. There is a public sector, a private non-profit sector and a private, lucrative sector, each of which has the same mission, namely to accommodate people – elderly people who are losing their autonomy in EHPADs, for example. Each institution carries out this task with respect for individuals and with adequate professional skills. For historical reasons, however, the financing rules are both different and complex. Some are subject to local taxes – housing tax, property tax and local taxes – but not others. The tariff schedule varies according to the institution. Nor is the tax on wages always the same. Ultimately, each of the three sectors – of which I receive representatives – believes that from a fiscal point of view, it is at a disadvantage compared to the other two. I repeat: this landscape is complex for historical reasons. The best way to make it clearer and to adopt the most just approach is the one used by the Minister of Health, who on 3 July, as she said here, undertook to expedite a mission of the General Inspectorate so that we would have factual and comparable data on the entire spectrum of taxation and charges. This will enable us to check whether or not there are gaps between sectors and, if so, to close them. I therefore propose that you wait for the conclusions of this important mission on a subject that concerns us all, beyond political differences – as evidenced by the fact that very different political groups defend the same arguments. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u477	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u478	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u479	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u480	We are sensitive to this proposal to relieve public EHPADs, the situation of which is known. I would like to take this opportunity to return, in a related area, to a proposal that we have not been able to defend because of a bug, but on which I would like clarification from the Government. This is the wage tax, which applies to public health facilities and EHPADs: it represents an additional charge of between 10 and 12 per cent of staff costs, or some 4.25% of total hospital resources. We are defending this strong demand from a number of trade unions and staff representatives for the abolition of the wage tax. This alternative route would also provide air to public EHPADs and, more generally, to public hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u481	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u482	On behalf of my group, I take note of the rapporteur-general's remarks and, through him, of the Minister's commitment to draw up an inventory so that we have a complete picture of the situation. I was surprised that these disparities persist in 2019, but the comprehensive study that is underway will provide us with some answers. I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u483	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u484	I would like to thank the rapporteur-general for his explanation: I believe that a broader picture is needed. Mr Dharréville raised the question of the wage tax and the answer is simple: pay the wage tax to establishments that are not subject to VAT. Traders, for example, do not pay the wage tax but are subject to VAT. Anyway, we have to take stock. Some pay the property tax, others do not. Let us await the conclusions of the mission mandated by the Minister; I hope that we will be able to harmonise taxation and social charges. Let us not forget that, in the end, it is the resident who pays. These issues have a direct impact on the daily price. The reduction of the rest of the load can therefore also go through this. In the meantime, I in turn withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u485	Do you maintain yours, Mr. Aviragnet?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u486	No, I'm taking it off, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u487	Amendment No 1834 by Mrs Typhanie Degois is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u488	I call Mr Bruneel to support Amendment No. 611.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u489	It is the first in a series on the CICE, which represents €22 billion in social contribution relief, the largest social niche. We take note of the Government's willingness, expressed by Minister Gérald Darmanin, to frame social niches, following the Court of Auditors' enlightening report on the extent of social contribution exemptions, which totals €90 billion. We propose that the system be phased out for a number of reasons. The first is that it is a gabegie of public money: 22 billion euros in 2020, to which must be added the 40 billion euros of the doubling of the CICE in 2019, an operation that we had named "cheese and dessert after pastis without water". The widths granted to companies do not stop there since, according to our calculations, the tax credit and the employer's relief will represent for them, within a few years, a gain of 142 billion euros, granted without consideration. The CICE does not give rise to any control over the use of public money and is not conditional on job creation, ecological investment or wage increases. There's a lot to bet it's used to distribute dividends to shareholders in large groups. For all these reasons, we are calling for an end to the CICE.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u490	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor to support Amendment No. 612.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u491	The reduction in employer contributions made by the CICE is granted without any consideration to companies, and represents a round sum of €22 billion in 2019. If we fail to achieve the removal of the device, we propose to limit its effects, which we denounce. We have excluded the maternal assistants, who could have been entitled to it, from the granting of the exceptional purchasing power premium, but it is for amounts as high as those enjoyed by companies in the framework of the CICE that we must introduce the most rigorous conditionality! We therefore propose to reserve the CICE only to companies that do not distribute more than 10% of their profits in dividends. We have the opportunity to adopt, beyond the political camps, an amendment of common sense, which pretends to reconcile morals and politics. We rarely have such hope these days, but we hope that our proposal will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u492	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u493	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 2013.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u494	As you can see, we are using creativity to make CICE a little less harmful. Modest and pragmatic, the amendment aims to better regulate aid granted to enterprises under the CICE, making it conditional on social and environmental commitments, through the introduction of a malus. In view of the sums committed, real compensation should be made for the benefit of the CICE. This was sustained, in the form of burden relief, after having been temporarily doubled last year. The sums are very high, and this withdrawal amendment tends to introduce a malus on the CICE. The reduction in employers' contributions would be reduced for companies with practices that are not conducive to the environment, employment, wages or investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u495	On Amendments Nos 616, 1973 corrected and 1975, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of requests for public ballots. On Amendment No 1040, I have the same request from the Socialist and Related Group. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Amendments Nos 1103, 616, 1040, 1973 corrected and 1975 may be subject to joint discussion. Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1103.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u496	We propose to concentrate burden relief on small and medium-sized enterprises, for which we have a considerable effort to make up for their competitiveness compared to their competitors in the countries around us. There is also a transmission problem that everyone knows. The Economic Analysis Board – CAE – questioned, in a very interesting note, the expected effects of the CICE on competitiveness, attractiveness and, above all, the preservation of employment. We reiterate its conclusions, and propose that the cuts in low-wage costs be sustained and that the cuts in salaries above 2.5 SMIC be abandoned in 2020. Madam Minister, you asked us if we were able to find savings in public money: here's one! As parliamentarians cannot propose new spending, particularly in order to save the hospital, we pursue a twofold objective with this amendment: to better support SMEs and MIPs who need it – amendments to the finance bill were aimed at reducing their corporate taxes, because small and medium-sized enterprises do not benefit, as an analysis of the IS matrix shows, from all the tax traps that very large companies benefit from – and to redeploy new appropriations to the same level of expenditure. I would ask our colleague Cendra Motin to look at the precise analysis of the EAC, in particular the very interesting part devoted to the comparison between, on the one hand, the taxation of SMEs and MIPs and, on the other, that of the major groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u497	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 616.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u498	We wish once again, since this is one of our concerns, to generate new revenues for social security, by planing an inefficient social niche. I am not alone in saying this, as the amendments in the same direction from the ranks of the majority attest. As a result of the liability pact, family employer contributions are reduced on wages up to SMIC 3.5. This social niche now costs 8 billion euros to the family branch, as the state compensates for this loss of revenue. I do not go back to the debate between compensation and non-compensation, but we could solve the problem otherwise. First of all, the economic context has changed: the crisis climate that prompted the implementation of this relief in 2013 is no longer relevant. In addition, we need to generate new revenue, and it is time to include in this effort exemptions and reductions in social contributions, which, let us recall, have doubled since 2013, according to official figures. The amendment aims to give €4 billion to social security out of €66 billion in relief. According to a January 2019 report of the ACE, an agency attached to the Prime Minister, this relief is ineffective for job creation and cost competitiveness; It is therefore recommended that it be reserved for low wages only, up to 1.6 SMICs. The adoption of the amendment would be a good signal and would reflect the willingness, which I hope the Government shares, to remove ineffective social niches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u499	I call Mr Joël Aviragnet to support Amendment No. 1040.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u500	We also propose, following the EAC report, to limit the scope of the reduction of family employer contributions to wages below 2 SMICs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u501	The two amendments, No 1973, corrected and 1975, can be presented in a consolidated format. Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u502	These amendments have two virtues: they represent a gain for the social security budget and they derive all the consequences from the evaluation of a public policy. I rely on a note from the ACE, a structure attached to the Prime Minister, which points out that the purpose of the contribution exemptions was to create employment and improve the competitiveness of businesses. This policy has had undeniable effects on low wages up to 1.6 SMIC, which was the objective of the CICE, or even up to 2 SMIC, a level of exemption from contributions that the PLF has just maintained, by making a switch from the tax credit to the exemptions. On the other hand, on higher wages, between 2.5 and 3.5 SMIC, i.e. between 3200 and 4500 euros per month, the contribution exemptions no longer have any effect. The CAE is not the only one to draw this conclusion, since none of the bodies we interviewed with Pierre Person – Rexecode, France Stratégie, the Institute of Public Policy, the CFDT, the MEDEF and the union of industries and trades in metallurgy – could prove the relevance of these contribution reductions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Reversing the exemption from contributions on the highest wages would represent, for social security, a gain of EUR 3 billion – according to the highest assumption, which is that of Amendment No 1973 corrected – or EUR 800 million – if the decrease is degressive, as foreseen by Amendment No 1975. Since public money expenditure must be relevant and efficient, it must be possible to eliminate ineffective schemes. This is the subject of my two amendments. I call on you to adopt, as a matter of priority, the corrected No 1973 and, if this is not the case, to refer to No 1975.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u503	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u504	We discussed in committee the report of the ACE submitted to the Government, which dealt, inter alia, with the possible effects of the reduction of employer contributions, particularly family contributions, on wages above 2.5 SMIC. Some amendments aim at the complete abolition of general reductions in employers' contributions, which would have a very strong impact on the cost of work, in the range of EUR 4 to 5 billion. Mr Houlié, the adoption of your corrected amendment No 1973, which takes back the amendment you tabled in committee, would lead to a very dry increase in the cost of labour. You accompanied him with another amendment, No 1975, which would increase the cost of work by 800 million euros in the first year and by 1.6 billion euros from the next, with a bevel effect beyond 2.5 SMIC in the reduction of general reductions in employer contributions in the family sector. I told you about my embarrassment, Mr. Houlié, on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u505	It is indeed very embarrassing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u506	We have transformed the CICE into a reduction in employer contributions. In the year of the changeover, we asked companies to stand as priests for this new scheme and to create employment and wealth, thanks to the reduction of the cost of labour. While we are not yet in the stage of evaluating the effectiveness of the new scheme, your amendment would once again lead to tax instability for companies in this country, while increasing the cost of labour significantly – 800 million euros in the first year, 1.6 billion euros from the next. This would not be neutral for them, even if your measure only concerns salaries exceeding 2.5 SMIC and the ACE has hypothesized a possible boon effect. Mr Houlié, I cannot give an opinion in favour of your amendments, which have been rejected by the committee, despite the interest of your colleagues, who are also interested in the effects of a boon which could result from the reduction of contributions and the question of where to target the nation's effort to create wealth and employment in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u507	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u508	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u509	These amendments were discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, with many supporting arguments. They are, however, contrary to the Government's policy of reducing the cost of labour and ensuring the stability of business regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u510	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u511	I believe that the proposed measures would have a major impact on the competitiveness of our companies. For these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u512	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u513	I would like to insist, because this debate is important. We have the possibility to grant additional revenue to social security. You have to know how to vary gifts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u514	These aren't gifts!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u515	This one, we know him. He's already had his effects. We must be able to learn from it. Moreover, they were set out in a report submitted to the Prime Minister. [[Smile]] Without wishing to frustrate Sacha Houlié, I would like to say that my amendment is a little better than his. He brings a little more money to social security. I therefore invite you to vote on it, ladies and gentlemen. For my part, if he is not accepted, I will vote for his own. Their adoption would be very good news for social protection accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u516	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u517	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR Group]] The majority group opposed these amendments. It is a matter of keeping a political line, the same one we have followed from the outset. It is important that we keep it because it creates jobs and added value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u518	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u519	There is also a need to maintain visibility for our companies, which cannot, overnight, be placed in an unstable position due to changes in load relief.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u520	Then don't add any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u521	These provisions promote wealth creation. In addition, they do not constitute niches. Moreover, some work on them shows that it saves money you're announcing, Mr. Dharréville. This is not a fiscal niche, I said, but a real presidential commitment, which we have also taken. This is about the trust that companies have in us. On the other hand, the burden-reliefs we are discussing concern high-value occupations and occupations. We must keep them in our country and value them. We are not just here to value – as you propose, Mr Dharréville – low-wage jobs. We must be able to value the whole social scale, and all the capabilities of our companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u522	Increase the wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u523	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] These need confidence. This is a political line. It is important that we maintain it, for the benefit of trust in our businesses, in our country and in our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u524	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u525	I understand these reservations. However, there is another political line dear to us in the majority group: the evaluation of public policies. Everyone can understand that in 2015 it was a matter of initiating the pump and reviving the growth of companies. This was a cyclical action, which explains the inclusion of high wage levels in the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u526	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u527	The wages we are talking about are between 3200 euros and 4,500 euros per month. They are not found in the small SMEs in your territories, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u528	SMEs don't just pay small wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u529	[[Mr. Pierre Person applauds]] These are important wages. Let us draw all the consequences of the evaluation of this public policy, of the figures available to us and of the opinions of the institutions I mentioned earlier – which cover most of the political sensitivities that we represent – for the social security budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u530	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u531	First of all, I would like to recall the remarks made by Mr Bruno Le Maire, Minister of the Economy and Finance, at this rostrum a week ago. He reiterated his commitment to business, which was very concrete, not to change the burden relief this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u532	If Bruno Le Maire said it, stop increasing them!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u533	Secondly, in the Committee on Finance, we heard Mr Philippe Martin, who is one of the authors of the above-mentioned ACE note. He noted – which several economists agree – that the consequences of the application of the wage premium reduction of between 2.5 SMIC and 3.5 SMIC are not demonstrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u534	They're limited!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u535	Few entrepreneurs are considering opening a Master's or Executive's position to benefit from this small contribution relief. However, this provision has made it possible, very concretely – although it is more difficult to prove it, of course – to maintain employment, particularly industrial employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u536	At 4200 euros a month?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u537	We are not talking here about executives, but about supervisors and team leaders, who receive bonuses and are paid at these salary levels. Furthermore, I would like to point out that one of the objectives of extending this reduction in contributions to higher wages, when it was adopted in 2015, was to accompany the employment of seniors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u538	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u539	Nothing has been done, apart from the generation contract. If you reread the debate, ladies and gentlemen, you will find that one of the objectives of this measure was the employment of seniors. In fact, at salary levels between 1 SMIC and 1.6 SMIC, juniors are hired, not necessarily people over the age of fifty with a great deal of experience. This measure has remained ineffective, for lack of a real senior plan, except for the generation contract, which has not found its audience. The Minister of Labour has set up a working group on this subject to promote the employment of seniors. On the basis of its conclusions, we will be able to review the burden-relief mechanism and determine whether it is the best method. I therefore propose to Mr Houlié, as well as to the signatories of the other amendments, to reflect,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u540	It is true that we are not used to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u541	...to an overall revision of the reliefs of loads, which present some pitfalls, including landing and stairway effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u542	Thank you for concluding, Madam draftswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u543	We must work on this, but from a global perspective, without sticking to this particular march.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u544	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u545	I am a little surprised by the origin of some of these amendments, which came from the majority. As the draftswoman and the minister have just pointed out, stability and confidence must first and foremost be ensured.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u546	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u547	It is not possible to change the rules of the game applicable to companies every four morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u548	Four years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u549	I would also like to draw attention to one point. Contrary to what you said, Mr Houlié, we find executives in SMEs and TPEs in our territories. There is a need for guidance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u550	4200 euros in salary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u551	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Nicole Sanquer also applauds]] To remove the tax or social relief on executive salaries, at a time when these SMEs and TPEs are undergoing a major structural change, which will allow them to remain on a long-term basis and to be transmitted, is in my view a major political mistake – in addition to the arguments put forward earlier. Frankly, I do not understand how such provisions can be proposed when you sit on the benches of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u552	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u553	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u554	Our colleagues in the majority, as well as the minister and the rapporteur for an opinion, are talking about stability, but we are constantly voting on provisions that change the rule! I do not know on which basis the stability of your political line is based, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! In addition, you often refer to the evaluation of public policies. If we implemented the CICE when we were in the majority, we did not set the thresholds that we are debating because we do not have an evaluation. Since then, evaluations have shown that it is inefficient beyond a certain level of pay. Why don't we get that money we need more than we need?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u555	It would be indecent not to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u556	Everyone knows there's an emergency in the hospital. It would be good to recover €3 billion to deal with the social emergency and to take action that could move the hospital. We really need that money. It seems to me to be necessary to recover it, since the economy achieved by companies is without economic efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u557	Yes, it's wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u558	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u559	Minister, the argument of fiscal stability, I have heard for a long time here. Mrs. Motin, we must not have short memories. When we adopted a downward trajectory of corporate tax, to increase its rate from 33 per cent to 31 per cent, and then to 28 per cent, in accordance with the President of the Republic's programme, was it respected? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u560	For big companies, but not for others!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u561	The social solidarity contribution of companies – C3S – was to be abolished in 2017. Has this promise of the President of the Republic been fulfilled? No. We fought here, last year, for the maintenance of the casual workers' and job-seekers' scheme – do you remember? Will fiscal stability be ensured in 2021?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u562	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u563	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u564	You're distorting things a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u565	Don't frown, Mrs. Motin. The CICE base rate increased from 7% to 6% of the payroll in 2019. Hasn't he changed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u566	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u567	Yes, it is. I would like the argument of fiscal stability to be put forward, but if Charles de Courson was there, he would say to you: "I have heard the same speeches twenty-five years ago; Twenty-five years ago we were told different stories." What I'm saying is that the CAE provides important guidance – not us Members, but those who are responsible for determining whether or not public money is being used effectively. This is how the CICE was created: we were told that exports were experiencing problems, and that it was the only way to put some oil in the engine. All the difficulty – you will grant me, Madam Minister – is that yesterday we had a four-hour debate on how to finance, up to EUR 3.5 billion, the non-compensation of revenue losses caused by the exceptional premium, conditional on the conclusion of an interest agreement. In this respect, will a small business benefit in the same way as a large one? Certainly not. In small enterprises with twenty or thirty employees, the agreements of interest are almost non-existent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u568	It will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u569	As a result, large companies will be favoured. You know that very well, Mrs. Motin, because you know the matrix of corporate tax on the very large groups in CAC 40. Is this higher or lower than that paid by SMEs? He's far inferior!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u570	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u571	Please! Our position is as follows: yes to fiscal stability, but not after the giant slalom – it is true that you know this, in the department of Isère –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u572	The season is not open yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u573	I'm not skiing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u574	...not after the succession of sinusoids that we have seen in recent years. Our only fight is to make sure that money is well spent. Madam Minister, you are pushing these amendments to EUR 4 billion even though you are desperately looking for money for the public hospital!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u575	You want to take it in the corporate pockets!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u576	[[Paul Molac applauds]] Our system of care, as you said yourself, is out of breath. Perhaps these amendments are a way to help the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u577	Mr Vincent Thiébaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u578	I understand the logic of these amendments, particularly those of our colleague Sacha Houlié. I am the first to say that if we can secure public investment and make sure that money is used properly, I agree. In this case, there is danger. The logic of the provisions covered by the amendments stems from the fact that we have had a tense period in certain economic sectors. I invite you to consult the OECD 2020 forecast, ladies and gentlemen. I am elected from a border territory of Germany. But this one enters a zone of fairly strong turbulence. Most of the big companies in my constituency are of German origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u579	They have the means to invest!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u580	No, they don't have them, exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u581	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u582	I am sorry, dear colleague: visit them and you will see. They are already asking questions and have stopped hiring temporary workers. In these enterprises, which are located in France, some skilled workers are paid at the wage levels mentioned earlier. Tomorrow, they may wonder about the economic visibility they have, because the proposed measures concern them directly. If we adopt one of these amendments, I dare not imagine the economic consequences that can result in the territories. I am sincerely convinced that these consequences would be very real. I understand the stakes, but at some point we need to be moderate. Perhaps we should ask ourselves the question of the usefulness of the mechanism, as the rapporteur for an opinion has pointed out. Above all, the right questions must be asked. At this time, given the economic forecasts for 2020, the challenges for certain territories and the possible impact of the proposed provisions on employment and businesses, it is good to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u583	It's about saving money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u584	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u585	I'd like to deliver my feeling. I was first intrigued by these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u586	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u587	I asked myself about the notion of fiscal stability, which is one aspect of the question. The amendments raise the question of the cost of labour in France, and of the production tool, the industrial productive tool. I do not think that this can be answered by way of an amendment. In addition, one can practically make one's market: one amendment provides for a threshold of 1.6 SMIC, another that of 2 SMIC, another that of 2.5 SMIC!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u588	At least you have a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u589	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on several SOC and GDR benches]] I believe that it is up to the Government to present a vision and propose a comprehensive arsenal on the issue of labour costs in France. It is not appropriate to do so this evening, through amendments designed by authors with a good reason to set a threshold and a floor. I expect the Government to propose a vision, a roadmap for industrial production and labour costs in France, as well as the competitiveness of French companies in Europe and around the world. I shall therefore not vote for the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u590	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u591	It's all been said. Our colleague Thierry Benoit is absolutely right: we need a comprehensive work to be done. Parliament, in particular the National Assembly, would no doubt be in its role in dealing with this issue. In any case, minister, we wish to be involved in this work. On the other hand, our debate is tonight strictly hexagonal...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u592	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u593	Apart from a few of us, everyone forgets that there is a global competition and that the cost of labour is a major element of the competitiveness of our companies even though, I agree, it is not the only one – there are also production taxes, taxation and many other factors. The change from 3.5 to 2.5 SMIC would have consequences for a large number of companies, particularly in the industry. So let's make sure we don't hit those jobs that are needed by the industry! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, dear Philippe Vigier, there has been, indeed, a lot of instability in recent times on the part of the Government. I am thinking in particular of tax promises to businesses. But then, please, let's not add any more! Companies need readability and visibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u594	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u595	All these amendments are in exactly the wrong direction. If we want to keep jobs in France, if we want our companies to be competitive, we must not vote for them. [[Protests on several benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] These are "low-wage traps." If you want wages to remain at a very low level, vote on these amendments, otherwise, vote against, which I encourage you to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u596	2.5 SMIC, it's not exactly a low salary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u597	We will remind you of this argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u598	[[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Their adoption would mean the destruction of jobs, particularly in industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u599	I put to the vote Amendment No. 616.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u600	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 116 Number of votes cast 110 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 15 Against 95
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u601	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1040.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u602	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 121 Number of votes cast 115 Absolute majority 58 For adoption 18 Against 97
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u603	I shall put to the vote Amendment No 1973, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u604	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 125 Number of votes cast 120 Absolute majority 61 For adoption 38 Against 82
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u605	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1975.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u606	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 123 Number of votes cast 117 Absolute majority 59 For adoption 42 Against 75
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u607	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor to support Amendment No. 1356.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u608	This is a fallback amendment which we would have liked to see called after Amendments Nos 614 and 613, but the classification carried out by the sitting service leads us to consider it first – we know that the ways of the sitting are impenetrable... In any case, we want to remove the employer contribution reliefs, known as "Fillon reliefs". These general cuts have been reinforced by successive governments in the name of employment policy since the 1990s, without ever really questioning their effectiveness. As of October 1, 2019, the total exemption from employer contributions at the SMIC level is the outcome of this process. These low-wage exemptions, i.e. wages below 1.6 SMIC, alone represent EUR 26 billion in lost earnings for social security funds each year, making it the most important "social niche", in the words of the Court of Auditors. The aim of Amendment No 613 is to abolish them gradually, because they have never, I say, proved their effectiveness, either economically or in terms of raising the level of qualification of workers. It's high time to put everything down. The aim of Amendment No 1356 is to introduce a malus on general reliefs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u609	Mr Nilor, the classification of amendments is a real logic. Amendment No 1356 is discussed first because it supplements the I of Article L. 241-13 of the Social Security Code. The following two amendments are then discussed because they complement the II and III of the same article of the Social Security Code. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 1356?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u610	Disadvantaged, as it will be on Amendments Nos 614 and 613. Amendment No 1356, which gives a great deal of weight to the regulatory power, contains rather vague elements – particularly with regard to the duration of contracts which would be the subject of a malus – and very restrictive. You will deprive the benefit of the low-wage reliefs of companies that employ a majority of workers who earn less than 1.6 SMICs. I'm afraid the proposed device is counterproductive. The adoption of your amendment would deprive some employees of access to employment, and it would penalize companies that hire employees with wages around 1.5 or 1.6 SMICs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u611	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u612	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u613	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u614	Some have concerns about the effects of a total burden exemption on SMIC. Because I have shared these fears, I have been very interested in the numbers: today, 80% of people who take a job at the SMIC keep it less than a year, and almost 90% keep it less than two years. In other words, the relief that already exists and the total relief clearly does not encourage employees to remain in the SMIC. I also share the concerns expressed about the effect of "low-wage traps." We were all concerned about the Fillon reliefs, and there was some stagnation in wages below 1.6 SMIC. It is in this spirit that I have begun to work on the degression of the reliefs which must allow to better accompany an increase in wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u615	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u616	Let me refer immediately to Amendment No 614 which we have already mentioned. As of October 1, 2019, there are no employers' contributions at the SMIC level. This means that, as part of your policy of constantly lowering labour costs, you now have no room for manoeuvre. What's the next step? The lowering of the SMIC itself? We can see that we are reaching the limits of this logic. Mohamed Laqhila referred to the "low-wage trap": our amendment is a perfect opportunity to tackle this phenomenon. The aim is to limit the benefit of general reductions in employer social contributions to undertakings which undertake to increase their remuneration in order to avoid the phenomenon of "low-wage traps". Mr rapporteur-general, Amendment No 1356 did not have your favour because its operative part was too complex; Amendment No 614 is better, and point 613 is probably even more. I therefore invite you to give them favourable opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u617	Amendments Nos 614 and 613 by Mr Pierre Dharréville have just been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u618	I have before me three amendments, No 45, second rectification, No 1140, second rectification, and No 402, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 45, second rectification and 1140, second rectification, are identical. Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 45, second correction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u619	Under popular pressure, you agreed to the request of the group Les Républicains by exempting overtime, a mechanism that had already proved its worth in favour of purchasing power before being abolished by François Hollande in 2012. However, you stopped in the middle of the ford. There is a lack of full relief of the employer's burden on these hours, as well as the abolition of the CSG and CRDS. The aim of the amendment is to get to the end of the process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u620	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 1140, the second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u621	This amendment, of which the first signatory is Laurence Trastour-Isnart, aims to restore purchasing power to the most deserving workers, especially those in the middle class, and to lower the cost of work for businesses, which you are both pursuing, Minister. We propose to make the mechanism provided for in the text much more effective. It is a system of common sense, win-win for companies as well as for employees and the middle classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u622	I call Mr Damien Abad to support Amendment No. 402, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u623	It goes in the same direction as the previous ones. You took a first step in challenging overtime; We propose you to do the second by "desocializing" them. We can see that we need to lift the mortgage imposed by these employer charges in order to encourage the use of overtime. The removal of these overtime was both an economic, social and philosophical mistake. It was an economic mistake, because the money earned by the employees was directly reinjected into the economic circuit. This was a social mistake, because the abolition deprived the middle-class wage earners and those who needed these hours of net purchasing power. Finally, it was a philosophical mistake to believe that sharing the job cake into a larger number of shares would give everyone access to employment, because this is obviously not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u624	What is the committee's opinion on these various amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u625	Purchasing power is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u626	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u627	We are, indeed. This is why you will no doubt welcome the figures published by the OFCE – Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques – which show that the purchasing power of French households increased by an average of 800 euros in 2019. Do you know when to go back up to find such an increase? You can look for a long time! The issue of purchasing power is therefore important, and we dealt with it in 2019, as we deal with it in 2020: we have just addressed the issue of the exceptional premium, but other provisions are foreseen. I would also like to point out that the draft finance law for 2020 foresees a reduction in income tax of EUR 5 billion. The purchasing power, that is no doubt, we take care of it! The amendments aim to extend the exemption from overtime social contributions to the CSG and CRDS. If I were a teaser, I would tell you that there is no compensation mechanism for social security. We would therefore vote for a €8 billion hole for her, because your provision would cost the public authorities and social protection an extra €2 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u628	80% of French people agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u629	This is a good reason to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u630	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-10-23-O1037.u631	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
