ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2020 (No. 2272, 2301).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u2	We are dealing with the examination of overseas appropriations (No 2301, Volume III, Annex 31 ; No 2298, Volume XII; No 2306, Volume VI). Mr Olivier Serva, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u3	The appropriations for the mission of which I am the Special Rapporteur bear witness to a preserved ambition for the overseas countries and territories. The level of commitment authorisations, at EUR 2.55 billion, is mainly affected only by scope and transfer measures. However, it is undergoing a slight change, due to the downward revision of ACOSS's forecast – Central Agency of Social Security Agencies – of the amount of compensation for exemptions from charges specific to the overseas sector, which was 34 million less than that set out in the original Finance Act for 2019. If it is planned to reduce expenditure by EUR 34 million in this way, I would have liked other lines of the mission to be abounded by a total of EUR 34 million, or the parameters of the scheme to be re-evaluated in order to maintain the same overall amount of exemptions offset. In this spirit, and in order to give full meaning to the Government's re-visitation clause, I have tabled amendments to the Social Security Financing Bill. These proposals, which I have defended on behalf of the economic and social world, have been partially adopted. I wish this debate to be continued and deepened in the Senate. In addition, the annual performance project could give us a more complete and precise view of the construction of the amount of appropriations requested in the context of the compensation of exemptions. It is still about 1.5 billion euros! I also regret the EUR 100 million reduction in payment appropriations. Of course, it is mainly the result of the observed pace of disbursements and under-executions, and thus demonstrates a concern for the sincerity of budgetary programming, which everyone can rejoice at. I would have preferred, however, that under-consumption be dealt with in another way, rather than simply being endorsed. One solution would be to strengthen engineering at all levels. I welcome the efforts made in this direction in favour of Guyana and Mayotte, but they should be generalized. I am also satisfied with the re-establishment of the home grant, and I agree with the choice made under the 2019-2022 housing plan to spend €7 million on engineering. For my part, I propose to abound by 2 million the appropriations dedicated to this same engineering within the framework of the action "Planning of the territory".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u4	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u5	I am also pleased that the "Financing of the economy" action of programme 123 is maintained at its 2019 level, at EUR 23 million, and that the exceptional investment fund remains endowed with 110 million, although its payment appropriations decrease by 5 million. As far as tax expenditure is concerned, its size reflects its importance: it amounts to EUR 4.5 billion, almost double the budget appropriations. This year, there is no major overseas tax provision in the draft finance bill. However, during the sitting of the first part of the PLF, some were moved by a government amendment aimed at introducing a duty free regime for cruise tourists in Guadeloupe and Martinique as an experiment. I, too, regret that the conditions for examining this amendment have led to the rejection of a measure which will stimulate the local economy and which responds to a pressing request from Guadeloupe and Martinique. It is now up to the Guadeloupian and Martinique parliamentarians to ensure that this amendment is re-tabled in the Senate, and that more serene conditions allow its adoption, beyond political divisions. It would only be the realization of a proposal made almost two years ago in the framework of the Interdepartmental Committee on the Sea of 17 November 2017. Senator Dominique Théophile and I are also organizing a meeting in Guadeloupe on November 25th with all the political and economic actors involved in this experiment; They are firmly in favour of it. In addition, general tax rules may affect overseas countries and territories. In particular, I fear that the reduction in the tax niche for sponsorship, provided for in Article 50 of the PLF, will deter patrons from financing overseas heritage conservation or restructuring operations which cannot, given the deteriorating financial situation of the ultramarine communities, be carried out without their assistance. In conclusion, Madam Minister, dear Annick, I would like to draw your attention to the Overseas Agricultural Economic Development Office, ODEADOM. For the sake of rationalisation, its merger with FranceAgriMer is envisaged. However, the actors in the ultramarine sectors are fully satisfied with this structure, which works well and meets their expectations. Can you ensure its sustainability? The delegation to the overseas countries and territories of the National Assembly adopted yesterday a motion to keep it as it stands. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In accordance with my favourable opinion, the Committee on Finance has adopted the appropriations for the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u6	I call Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u7	Expensive living is a major concern in the ultramarine territories. The inevitable consequence of the remoteness, insularity and narrowness of local markets, which do not allow economies of scale to be achieved, cannot be fatal. Transforming the apparent weaknesses associated with the remoteness, insularity and narrowness of markets into assets is the ambition of the present budget of the Overseas Mission. Its appropriations reflect this ambition by showing an amount equivalent to the financial law for 2019, with a constant scope of 2.61 billion euros. Transfers and scope changes streamline the allocation of funds and improve their readability, without affecting the coherence of a mission that declines its priorities in the Overseas Employment and Living Conditions programmes. While the budget of the Overseas Mission appears to be broadly stable, excluding scope measures and changes in ACOSS forecasts, it nevertheless shows a slight decrease in payment appropriations by 0.7%, while commitment authorities show a 2% increase. However, the decrease in payment appropriations should be relativised in view of the difficulties in the consumption of appropriations revealed by the budgetary implementation in 2018 and in the financial year 2019. In addition to its stability, this budget shows a double will: making the sustainable economic development of overseas countries one of its priorities, and providing engineering assistance to local and regional authorities by allocating €13 million to this item. In order to solve the problem of expensive living, I have chosen to analyse more specifically the role of agri-food imports overseas in raising the cost of living from 20% to 30%, due to the cost of approach and the inadequacy of local production. To develop local agricultural production – described as a copy by President Macron during his recent trip to Réunion Island – I recommend several measures: to sustain and modernise taxes, including the granting of the sea, in order to encourage the development of local production; introducing a value added tax – VAT – at 0% for imported basic necessities with no equivalent in local production; to grant specific aid to encourage diversification of the latter; Finally, to set up specific aids for the creation of ultramarine labels for raw or processed products on the spot, in order to increase the range and conquer new markets in the metropolis, in Europe and internationally. The development of ultramarine agricultural production is an effective means of combating expensive living. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will end with a quote from our compatriot Simone Schwarz-Bart, extracted from Rain and Wind on Telumée Miracle: "The country often depends on the heart of man: it is tiny if the heart is small, and immense if the heart is large. The same applies to the appropriations for our mission: I have no doubt that the hearts of the ultramarines and our minister, Annick Girardin, are great. That is why we hope that the commitments made by President Macron during his visit to La Réunion will lead to an increase in the appropriations of the Interdepartmental Committee on Overseas Affairs, the CIOM, next year. Nevertheless, I will vote for the overseas mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u8	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u9	The Overseas Mission is experiencing a facial decrease in its appropriations: its budget amounts to 2.55 billion euros in commitment authorisations, a decrease of 4 %; Payment appropriations fell slightly by 6.54% to 2.4 billion. Once the scope effects have been corrected, this decline in appropriations is no longer really one. In fact, it represents some 20 million euros, or 0.8% of the mission – according to the blue one in which the Government is committed to introducing aid for the social accession and exit of the health-related insanity in the overseas region to compensate for the 30 million reduction in the housing action of programme 123. The situation is therefore in contrast to the financial law for 2019, which showed a substantial increase, but only apparent. The finance bill for 2020 shows a decline that is not one, and that is a good thing. Over the course of two years, the Overseas Mission has undergone major field changes that make its reading more difficult and complex. We can regret this, but we hope that 2020 is the last year to undergo such transformations. First of all, the Overseas Mission represents only a small part – less than 12% – of the nation's overall overseas effort. This effort amounts to EUR 22.05 billion, an increase of 2% over 2019. Secondly, last year's tax and social reforms – redefining the scope of overseas specific exemptions as early as 2019, as a result of the disappearance of the competitiveness and employment tax credit; Lowering the income tax reduction ceiling for ultramarine housing; removal of the non-recoverable VAT mechanism – has consequences for the PLF for 2020. Due to the government's choice to focus on exemptions from social contributions and support for the economy through instruments common to all territories, unallocated appropriations have taken a considerable place in the overseas appropriations, rising from EUR 176 million in 2018 – less than 1% of the overall budget effort – to EUR 2.5 billion in 2020, or 12% of the total envelope. This raises several questions about the measure of state support in our territories. In addition to these uncertainties, the lower forecast of the amount of contribution exemptions, as anticipated by ACOSS, is added. Such a situation is uncomfortable, as variances in forecasts from one fiscal year to another affect visibility in the management of the Mission's budget. This mechanism seriously penalizes public action, since burdened and unpredictable expenditure may call into question, in the course of the exercise, the initiatives accepted by Parliament concerning other aspects of the lives of the ultramarine populations. In this regard, I am pleased to note, Madam Minister, that you have been assured that new appropriations will be released if the need arises, without the rest of the mission being used as an adjustment variable. I would like to highlight several advances in this mission. Under the 138 "Overseas Employment" programme, 135 people have been recruited in five years, 35 of them from 2020 to deploy the SMA plan – adapted military service – 2025, the creation of a new company in Bourail, New Caledonia, or an increase of 10 million euros in the allocation of the overseas development loan in order to extend its benefit to companies located in the communities of the Pacific. In programme 123, "Overseas living conditions", we can welcome the creation of local housing and housing observatories in each territory, or the doubling of the appropriations allocated to the operation of all price, margin and income observatories. Beyond these reasons for satisfaction, an aspect of the Overseas Mission must be the subject of great vigilance on our part. The 2018 budget year showed under-consumption, mainly for programme 123, amounting to EUR 120 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 144 million in payment appropriations. This chronic under-consumption of funds allocated to communities for structural operations, most often contracted, is responsible for a marked decrease in the volume of payment appropriations in the PLF for 2020. This strictly budgetary consequence threatens an essential commitment of the Government – of yourself, Madam Minister, as well as of the Minister of Public Action and Accounts: the Sanctuary of the Mission's appropriations. We must ensure that the decline does not persist and that the territories benefit from accompanying and engineering arrangements, already mentioned in committee and in the overseas delegation. The creation of a working group on under-execution, which you announced yesterday, will help communities improve their credit consumption rates. Finally, I will deal briefly, as we will return to this during the discussion of the amendments, with an essential part of the State's action: the policy of territorial continuity. His funeral device, the subject of many debates, is now totally inoperative. It would also be necessary to develop internal continuity, particularly inter-island, and that of links to other closer destinations, particularly in archipelagic territories such as New Caledonia and French Polynesia. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion, also applauds]] The 2020 budget honours commitments made under the Overseas Blue Book and convergence and transformation contracts. It is consistent with the perspectives of the ADM 2025 plan and the overseas trajectory 5.0. For these reasons, I express a favourable opinion on the appropriations for the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u10	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u11	[[Smile]] We all know that, Madam Minister, speaking on behalf of her political group is a fairly agreed exercise. Depending on the party to which it belongs, the speaker incenses or denigrates the budget mission; The minister responds by doing pedagogy and concludes with an esquive, a pirouette or a sibyllin sentence: "The State will accompany you. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u12	What a lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u13	During the five minutes granted to me to defend the position of the group The Republicans, I would like to avoid this and ask you four specific questions that require just as precise answers. The first question concerns the appropriations for the Overseas Mission. You have managed to keep them at bay, that is to say, 2.55 billion euros, beyond the so-called perimeter measures. However, payment appropriations fall by EUR 100 million. Some of this decrease, it has been said, can be attributed to ACOSS; but another part is directly related to the under-consumption of payment appropriations. At the same time, companies, artisans, design offices, architects are waiting for work, and families are waiting for housing. One can have a Parisian vision of things: "Ban la lé pa kapab uses money y don a zot", which I will translate you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u14	It's pointless, I practice Creole regularly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u15	[[Smile and "Thank you! » on several benches]] [[Smile]] Nevertheless, for the benefit of all my colleagues: "The territorial authorities and the deconcentrated services of the State have difficulty in mastering and using the authorizations of commitment made available to them. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u16	Nice translation!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u17	Literal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u18	In the face of this situation, you are putting forward the somewhat disturbing idea of drawing on investment funds to strengthen the training services, i.e. to allocate to the administration, of which you admit incompetence, part of the funds supposed to be used for the construction of housing. This is not the purpose of the single budget line. No, Madam Minister, there is no over-the-counter failure of government or community services. There are, on the other hand, a lot of blockages; and, as Mr. Dunoyer has said, a fact-finding, expert mission would be necessary to understand the reasons for it. We cannot accept that the under-consumption of appropriations will happen again next year when expectations are so high. My second question relates less to large-scale real estate operations than to small-scale home improvement operations. My colleagues and I have again tabled an amendment this year aimed at re-establishing the tax incentive for improving or rehabilitating private housing. Indeed, the tax credit does not benefit those who would need it most, the occupants, because they cannot pre-finance it. As you know, Minister, the National Habitat Agency certainly funds operations in the ultramarine territories, but it does not exist as an agency. Occupant owners therefore do not benefit directly from its credits. Remember: in your early days, you promised to remedy this situation. Neither the tax credits nor the ANAH, therefore, allow homeowners of very degraded housing to finance rehabilitation work. Will you support our amendment in order to restore a simpler, more normal situation overseas? My third question concerns programme 138, which finances economic action and, in large part, the reduction of labour costs by exemptions from social contributions. These exemptions are reduced from EUR 1.51 billion to EUR 1.47 billion, a decrease of more than EUR 34 million, according to ACOSS figures. This would result in a 2.3% reduction in business support, which is simply unacceptable. Did you get, in the name of the "reflex overseas", to renegotiate this amount provided by ACOSS? My fourth and final question will be: many companies previously eligible for tax exemptions no longer benefit from the free zones of new-generation activity that you have established; Are you going to take them back to the device?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u19	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Ms. Maina Sage also applauds]] Madam Minister, I am of course ready to accompany you if you can provide some positive answers to the questions I have just asked you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u21	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u22	As every year, we are about to examine the appropriations of the overseas budget and, as every year, the moment is full of symbols and expectations for all the people of our territories. With €2.5 billion in commitment appropriations, €2.4 billion in payment appropriations, the budget that you are presenting to us this year, Minister, is balanced and constant. Above all, it should be borne in mind that the total budget allocated to overseas countries is EUR 26.5 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 26 billion in payment appropriations: a commitment which concerns all ministries in all areas. I would like to welcome the €130 million increase in the budget for the ecological and solidarity transition. This is a priority for our island territories, which are at the forefront of global warming. I also note the EUR 100 million increase in funding for overseas school education. The Overseas Mission, on the other hand, benefits from a budget which is resolutely geared towards employment, as it promotes vocational training and apprenticeship, and which extends the commitments already made in the field of economic development: exemptions from social charges on wages, reinforcement of free zones of activity, aid for the creation of enterprises, testing of free jobs. These schemes are already bearing fruit: in 2019, job creation increased by 2.6% in my territory, Guadeloupe, and by 3.5% in all overseas countries. Of course, we can and must do more and better. Madam Minister, you can count on the support of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, as well as on our work within the territories, with local elected representatives, economic actors, operators and associations. We will step up our efforts to further innovate, accelerate job integration, and continue to boost and diversify our economies. We have the resources: our populations are talented, resilient, creative. Part of this budget is devoted to improving living conditions in the territories. Particular efforts are being made in the area of housing. Here again, I welcome the Government's action, in particular the restoration of social home ownership assistance, which we had told you would have negative consequences. In terms of housing, there are high expectations on the ground. At my permanence, in Guadeloupe, there is no week without me meeting people in great difficulty, often in distress, because of unworthy and unhealthy housing. I am well aware that the one-year budget will not be enough to solve a structural problem, affecting all the territories. But let us collectively ensure that the appropriations voted are used to the full, intelligently, to serve our people on the ground and to combat in practice the unworthy habitat. All these efforts require better support from the State. In our territories, project promoters face long administrative journeys and many obstacles. With regard to deployment, engineering, study, the state must be at the meeting, as close as possible to the demands of the actors and the communities. The €13 million increase in engineering aid is in line with this. We will have to determine whether these credits are sufficient, and how to ensure that all lines of credit are sufficiently exploited, in order to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens. I hope that we will make a commitment to regularly assess with you, Madam Minister, the actual use of these appropriations in all territories, so as to identify precisely the needs, failures and effects in real time. [[Mr. Stéphane Claireaux and Ms. Maina Sage applaud]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote for these credits without hesitation, in conscience, and, above all, driven by the demand that we make ever more for our territories and our populations. Increasingly in the area of employment and development; for housing and improvement of the health system; for the ecological transition, for territorial continuity, for support for quality local agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u23	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u24	Unlike last year, the Government is saving for 2020 large-scale overseas tax measures. This welcome respite will allow us, I think, a more serene debate. With regard to economic aid, we also thank you for the adjustment granted to the new burden-free scheme, although I am not yet convinced that the economic fabric is, as a whole and ultimately, winning. Let us therefore wait for the financial year 2019 in its entirety. Unfortunately, I regret to say that I will stick to this for the sake of satisfaction and that the Socialist and related group will vote against this budget. Let us take the reforms that we denounced last year, in particular those relating to the tax reduction on income tax or the abolition of uncollectible VAT. When I read the blue of the mission, I admit some difficulties in finding the millions of euros punctuated to businesses and taxpayers. Perhaps this is the limit to the intelligibility of budget documents, but could you, for example, justify the reduction of €32 million in the appropriations allocated to the "Financing of the economy" action created last year? While half of the legislature is behind us, I will not remind this House of the measures that you have taken against the overseas countries and territories, of the ill-prepared, poorly-coordinated reforms that you have put into force, or of the zeal with which the prefectures apply your method of systematic and somewhat brutal recentralization of public policies. In fact of "reflex overseas" – I'm sorry to have to tell you when you make it the alpha and omega of your action – the only one that prevails at the end of the day is a pile of fiscal and fiscal measures with the sole aim of making the state realize savings. The figures show that. I would have a lot to say about the mission we are looking at, but I will focus specifically on the "Housing" action. For the third consecutive year, the appropriations allocated to it decreased by 5% in commitment authorities and 15% in payment appropriations, bringing the total decrease in commitment authorisations to 13%, since the beginning of the five-year period, and the decrease in payment appropriations to 18%. This public policy is thus subject to an unprecedented levy, while the needs are such that massive investment is needed. You know this all the more because the overseas housing conferences all conclude with the same urgency. Let's go into it. Funding for social housing is down by €52 million, representing 1,750 unfunded housing units. The same is true with regard to the resorption of unsanitary habitat: €8 million less in 2020 and credits divided by two since 2017. And it is not the timid increase in the credits dedicated to home ownership or the return of the overseas housing allowance that will help to address the crisis that you yourself have caused. What about the total figure of €215 million for housing, which is constantly falling? If, moreover, we withdraw the new €7 million for engineering, which will not directly benefit construction or renovation, we fall to a housing budget of just over €200 million. Minister, you are continuing to say that the money is falling to the point of not being consumed, thereby rejecting responsibility for communities whose projects are not sufficiently matured. Listening to you, the fault would still fall to the local power, while the state never raises the question of its own responsibility. I am not questioning your department's particular action, but aren't there often problems with blocking files or helping pre-financing operations? In the absence of instruction and release of funds, applications for habitat improvement assistance are lagging behind everywhere and are accumulating. We see here the limits of your justifications. Finally, what about budgetary implementation? The one in 2018 makes us fear the worst since Bercy uses it to justify, year after year, the decrease in your budget. This reflection on budget implementation goes beyond the only subject of housing, since the remainder to be paid for the overseas mission amounted to almost 1.7 billion euros in 2018, an increase of 7%. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Is it true, Madam Minister, that the adverse budgetary arbitrations imposed on you will allow you to carry out your mission for the overseas?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u25	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u26	The budget presented to us, of 2.5 billion euros in commitment authorisations and 2.4 billion euros in payment appropriations, includes several perimeter measures: the levy from Guyana's revenue on the granting of the sea is reinstated to the Ministry of Overseas Affairs for 27 million and the overall allocation of autonomy of French Polynesia is transferred to the revenue levy for 90.5 million. At constant scope, the budget reflects a general and long-term downward trend: the amount of commitment authorities decreases by 1.3% and the amount of payment appropriations by 3.9%. With regard to housing, the figures were very worrying, with appropriations falling by 13 per cent. The resources allocated to housing have been shrinking for several years while the crisis remains acute. We are reaching a point of rupture beyond which the consequences of the decline could be irreversible: the resources allocated to housing have never been so low in ten years, even if, Madam Minister, you justified this decision, at the time of your hearing by the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, by the under-consumption of the appropriations allocated to housing. Resources to support businesses are down by €34 million, or 2.3%. The reform of employer social security exemptions in the overseas countries and territories does not seem to have been sufficient to compensate for the abolition of the tax credit for competitiveness and employment. The Government's efforts to benefit overseas enterprises should therefore be stepped up so that they would not be adversely affected by the evolution of public policies pursued by successive Governments. On the other hand, we welcome the continuation in 2020 of the exceptional investment fund to support the economic development of the territories. This sustainability is all the more salutary as we discussed last year the issue of abounding the fund thanks to the budgetary gains achieved by the abolition of EUR 170 million of overseas tax expenditure. In addition, the IUD, Action and Independents Group would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the following points: the equivalent Green Fund for Pacific communities, the first to be affected by climate change; territorial continuity overseas, about which I wrote an information report with my colleagues Lénaick Adam, Nathalie Bassire and Monica Michel; the challenges facing the French Coral Reef Initiative, IFRECOR, as well as the means allocated to achieve the objective of protecting 100% of the coral reef by 2025; Finally, the situation of our soldiers, who are increasingly recruited in the Pacific but who are victims of unequal treatment that needs to be corrected. I would like once again to express my dismay at the removal in 2020 of the State's participation in the solidarity regime in French Polynesia, the RSPF. We discussed this with you yesterday, Madam Minister, during your hearing by the delegation to the overseas countries and territories. You refer this participation to the convergence plan – with the agreement of the Polynesian government – which will only be effective for Polynesia in 2021 or even in 2022. However, the State's contribution to the RSPF was a symbol of national solidarity towards the poorest Polynesians. Finally, even if this subject does not directly concern your ministry or the mission we have to discuss, our group is concerned about the umpteenth reform of patronage, which will inevitably undermine patronage in France and overseas. What about the preservation of the overseas heritage? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LR group]] Despite these outstanding questions, to which we are confident in obtaining answers, our group would like to renew its confidence and agree with the opinion of Mr Philippe Dunoyer, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u27	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u28	My colleague Sylvain Brial, Member of Parliament for Wallis-et-Futuna, should have expressed before you the position of the Libertés et territoires group on the credits of the Overseas Mission. So let me give you some news about his health. After we have feared the worst, it seems that hope can be reborn: without knowing in what state it will return to us, we are a little more confident than before because it has regained the ability to respond yes or no, at least with the eyelids, and its members come back to life. The path will necessarily be very long, but we are confident that it will one day completely overcome the violent stroke of which he was the victim. Like him, we all have a deep desire to help the overseas countries to meet the challenges they face, and, above all, the duty to achieve real equality between all territories so that each of our fellow citizens can live and flourish there, united by the feeling of belonging to the same community, a community that Aimé Césaire truly dreamed of being equal and fraternal. But the way to it seems long and tortuous. Thus, the overseas budget we are looking at today shows a decrease of 100 million euros compared to 2019. Of course, in many sectors, overseas countries also benefit from the budgets of different ministries, but we lack clarity and the horizon is not clear for all, nor in all areas. It is therefore difficult to see clearly the government's ambition for the overseas countries, as the voices are sometimes discordant, as in the case of the granting of the sea, and the words are in sharp contrast with the acts. For example, the amounts allocated to the Overseas Employment programme are down by almost 2% in payment appropriations, while at the same time you claim to encourage the creation and safeguarding of sustainable jobs in the market sector and to combat the exclusion of the labour market from the publics furthest from employment. The legislator, but also the overseas populations, find it difficult to understand such a dichotomy. I am thinking in particular of the Réunions who, on the occasion of the recent visit of the President of the Republic, were able to inform him of their distress regarding the employment situation, of their loss of hope in the future, of their difficulties in living "with 790 euros per month", denounced by an angry resident. The new measures announced to compensate unemployment will only aggravate the situation in those territories where work is even more precarious than in metropolitan France. Of course, the President of the Republic has announced a plan for employment and training, totalling 700 million euros over three years, for the island of Réunion. But how will this plan be funded, and what about its sustainability? It is not enough to settle for a cautère on a wooden leg when tensions become too strong, but to contribute by means of fundamental measures to the recovery overseas. With regard to convergence contracts, including that of Wallis-et-Futuna, signed last July, we can only ask ourselves about their financing – hence the reservation expressed by Sylvain Brial, who also regretted that the diversity of the islands was not taken into account. These contracts must be able to invest in the development of the territories, while taking into account the specificities and needs of the overseas countries and territories. They require the State to give clear instructions to its representatives in the territories, to ensure the effectiveness of engineering conducive to the performance of these contracts and to ensure that the funds are paid over time. In short, there is a need to put an end to recurrent blockages which help to curb, or even prevent, the arrival of financing. The Republic's financial contribution to the success of the overseas countries must be based on two legs: the provision of the funds necessary for the development of the ultramarine territories and the actual collection of those funds. It is not acceptable to hear that the sums spent on the overseas countries and territories have not been fully consumed and, above all, that the fault is being blamed on the operators and the communities while the malfunctions, as we know, are elsewhere. We therefore welcome, Madam Minister, your commitment to have a study of the reasons why these appropriations were not consumed. The Freedom and Territory Group is also committed to territorial continuity. Of course, with regard to Wallis-et-Futuna, we are satisfied with the amount entered to compensate for the additional cost of the operating subsidy, but the sum cannot hide the dysfunctions of a service which the authorities are dealing with with with a distressing collapse. The principle of national cohesion requires that the overseas countries be given their rightful place in our Republic: a place that is neither discriminatory nor offensive to the personality of the ultramarine territories, a place that makes them full actors in France's success. Thus, territorial continuity is an issue of social cohesion through transport, training, health or communication, but it is also a matter of sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Ladies and gentlemen, from metropolis to overseas, we all have a common destiny that can be made a success if we practice the language of truth and not of ambiguity. Unfortunately, it is the ambiguity that characterizes this budget. So it is the debate that begins that will determine our vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u29	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u30	Madam Minister, last week I asked you in a public meeting following the President of the Republic's visit to La Réunion. In response, you sought to make us believe that the overseas was well treated, raising millions by this, millions by that. You won't have convinced anyone, because those who suffer from your policy are still moving. And, like a bad doctor, faced with the worsening of the condition of the patient, you renew the same treatment. « Zot lé pa la ek sa ; ensoit anou! » Indeed, as every year, the review of the overseas mission's appropriations offers us the only or almost only opportunity to discuss the reality of our territories. Again the term discussion is a great word: you listen to us, but no more; You don't hear the suffering of the people. For our part, unlike you and not to deceive anyone, we prefer to calculate budgets by taking into account inflation and population growth. The budget of the Overseas Mission has been declining for several years and will fall further in 2020. You will reduce the budget for the Overseas Employment Programme by €62 million and for the Overseas Living Conditions Programme by €85 million. Is this serious, Madam Minister? As for the "Aid for Access to Housing" program, they also decreased by 67 million, while tens of thousands of applications were pending. I take this opportunity to point out that, on this and other points, overseas is not treated equally with the metropolis: indeed, the reduction of solidarity rent has been applied in Hexagon since 1 February 2018 but not overseas. Why? I hope you will redress this injustice. Yet, you and President Macron are bragging with the 700 million euros of the famous Petrel Plan. I would like to believe it, but where are those 700 million, since the budget of the Overseas Mission is falling? What is worse, the cumulative forecast expenditure of all the ministries for the overseas departments is also declining! Is it really fair, Madam Minister, when people are done? In this connection, how can we fail to denounce the decision to abolish the National Observatory on Poverty and Social Exclusion on 1 January 2020, a tool which, for 20 years, helped inform the public debate on the reality of poverty in France and Europe? I would remind you that the poverty rate is 44.3 per cent in Guyana, 39 per cent in Réunion, 32 per cent in Martinique, 19 per cent in Guadeloupe and over 80 per cent in Mayotte. The country is sick and the government breaks the thermometer as the only remedy! It's Macron's new fashion: Humans no longer have their place. Far from the eyes, far from the heart... In addition, ADEME – the Environment and Energy Management Agency – issued a report last May stating that, if a massive financial effort were not made, the Overseas Territories would not meet their target under the Green Growth Energy Transition Act of 100% renewable energy by 2030. However, the Government had chosen to do the opposite by withdrawing EUR 48 million from the ecological transition of the territories. Finally, President Macron announced, on the last day of his visit to Reunion, a zero leukosis plan within four years. The director of the DAAF – Directorate of Food, Agriculture and Forestry –, interviewed by Imaz Press Réunion, nevertheless said: "If you say we are going to clean up [the livestock] in four years, you are crashing. [M.] Macron took pieces of phrase as elements of communication." Here's your big problem: com', com', but nothing concrete! We understand better why the funding for the "Safety and Quality of Food" programme is down by €900000. In these circumstances, how can you believe in your statements? The observation is clear: it is a cure of austerity for the overseas. Communication is not enough. We want a real budget and real actions in the direction of social justice, human emancipation, the protection of nature and biodiversity. Minister, tell your colleagues in the rich government: we, the ultramarines, refuse your budget. I take the view as a witness: while the House is composed of 577 Members, we are barely 30 in the Chamber. However, you will impose your decision on us by calling Members of the Hexagon before the vote. With this manoeuvre, these Members will punish the people of overseas without having bothered to listen to our arguments and without knowing a single figure of this budget, which is a lack of respect. How can we develop our territories under these conditions? This system, so undemocratic, is truly revolting. The overseas world deserves much better than that. Why do you continue to prevent the well-being of the people? Where's the fraternity? Having reached half of Emmanuel Macron's term of office, we have no choice but to see your policy failing. The only solution would be a citizen revolution through the ballot box, which I call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u31	[[Smiles and applause on several benches of the SOC, LaREM and LR groups]] Allow me to point out, dear colleague, that the number of Members present is not proportional to the interest of the subjects discussed. If that were the case, there would be far more Members in your group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u33	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u34	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u35	We all know the stakes that exist in the overseas countries and territories. Does the budget that you are defending, minister, meet the expectations that flow from it? Far from opening an act II of the quinquennium, it lies in the continuity of the previous budget, based on the desire to liberalise the ultramarine economy. An example of this is the regrettable abolition of the 40 per cent salary increase for civil servants, recently referred to by the media and supposedly leading to a virtuous cycle of lower prices. There are others: the removal of the CICE; the removal of the tax reduction which directly affects young households and businesses; the removal of aided contracts resulting from the scarcity of local government resources... Under the guise of liberalization, you are thus organizing the impoverishment of the population. You will therefore understand the reluctance expressed by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to sanction an anxiety-free policy. For my part, together with a few other Members from overseas, I will make my vote conditional on the quality of your listening and the fate that will be reserved for our amendments. This budget loses much of its scope in favour of the general budget, which again raises the question of its effectiveness and coherence. With a total amount of 2.5 billion euros, it is down 4%. This reduction affects commitment authorisations and, above all, payment appropriations, the 16% reduction in which leads us to question ourselves. It cannot be justified by the under-consumption of appropriations, as this is the result of administrative and logistical obstacles; It would even be harmful to let him think. The decline in the allocation of housing is also damaging. The removal by the Government of the housing grant accession, contrary to the unanimous opinion of the elected representatives of the territories, had resulted in the blocking of thousands of files. Nor should we forget the difficulties of the land, the unhealthy habitat or the exit of the estate individual, which hinder the emergence of projects. These wanderings in the approach explain the difficulties which made the ministerial trips to Martinique and Guadeloupe and, more recently, the visit of the President of the Republic to La Réunion from 23 to 25 October: no answer is given to the needs of the overseas countries. The Head of State, however, welcomed the "exemplarity" of the ultramarine model, in particular its agricultural organization, which created wealth and jobs. Against a certain administrative tendency to take advantage of this budgetary discussion to review the scheme, the President of the Republic has clearly announced the displeasing of the aid expected by all those who operate an agricultural or agri-food business overseas. We would therefore like to hear your views on the matter, Madam Minister, and hope that you will alleviate our concern by explicitly committing you to respect the presidential word and to provide sufficient funds in the PLF for diversification agriculture overseas, in order to finance all the development needs of the territories. Apart from questions of budgetary technique and incorrect administrative measures, I would like to stress the fundamental flaw in this budget, which is to want to liberalise the overseas economy technically. Liberalize, yes! But not by forgetting the real need for economic catching-up already recognised by Article 343 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; or forgetting the ageing of the population, a problem which no substantive solution has been found; not forgetting our geography, which represents a structural handicap by making us combine remoteness, insularity, warehouse economy and poverty; and forgetting that it is always the State that, through its strong and proactive policies, has enabled us to emancipate and develop. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – MM. Raphaël Gérard and Guillaume Vuilletet also applaud]] The overseas region does not suffer from a lack of liberalisation, but from the lack of voluntarism on the part of the State. We therefore expect these priorities to be better reflected in its budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u36	Mr Lenaïck Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u37	The overseas mission's appropriations this year amount to EUR 2.6 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 2.5 billion in payment appropriations, at constant scope and without charge exemptions. I cannot stand before you without addressing, as our colleagues have done, the EUR 100 million reduction in these appropriations. It is my responsibility – our responsibility – to be transparent in this regard. The Minister has already lent herself to this exercise in committee; I'm now giving myself up in front of you. The facial decrease in credits is due to two reasons. First, the rate of credit consumption by communities, businesses and operators is slowing down. This under-consumption led to a budget reduction of around EUR 34 million. Secondly, in anticipation of the expense exemptions, the Mission's budget was cut by approximately €66 million. In addition, it should be noted that some scope changes have had an impact on this year's budget. This is the case with the "reperimation" attributable to the new allocation of 27 million euros allocated to Guyana in order to accompany this territorial community in the performance approach that it has undertaken and which the State supports. This amount will be paid by the Directorate-General for Overseas Affairs to the Directorate-General for Local Authorities. I invite you not to lose sight of the objective that we all share: to vote for a budget that best coincides with the priority needs of our territories. This budget aims to transcribe the government's commitments to overseas countries: to improve the daily lives of ultramarines, to strengthen the support of our territories, and to support housing and employment policies. The implementation of these commitments is divided between the two programmes of the mission and is consistent with the Overseas Blue Book as well as with the overseas trajectory 5.0. Programme 138, Overseas Employment, aims to increase the competitiveness of enterprises, but also to improve access to employment for young ultramarine workers. Among the key features of this programme is the "Aid for Integration and Vocational Qualification", whose funds are increasing and which finances, in particular, the development of adapted military service in New Caledonia. The programme 123, "Overseas Living Conditions", implements the commitments made in the field of ultramarine land use planning in the areas of housing, public infrastructure and facilities and education. Among the funds allocated to this programme, €13 million will be allocated to support local authorities, in addition to €800,000 dedicated to setting up an engineering platform in Guyana. The commitment authorisations for the housing component amount to €215 million in order to support public policies in this area. I would also point out the restoration, in the ultramarine territories alone, of aid for the acquisition of property and the renovation of the habitat, in order to take account of the fragility and specificities of these territories in this respect. Programme 123 applies the principle of territorial continuity. It therefore includes measures to de-enclave territories and support the mobility of populations, financed by the Territorial Continuity Fund. In Guyana – I am speaking with knowledge – there are considerable difficulties in the application of this principle by the operators concerned. Mail is delivered in an unusually long time frame, mobile coverage is insufficient – which is paradoxical for a territory which is nevertheless home to Europe's space port – and the support of mobility for students in the inner municipalities is just as important. I'm not going to pursue the inventory. However, as co-rapporteur of the fact-finding mission on territorial continuity in the overseas countries and territories, I can only welcome the fact that our Government is taking into account the conclusions we made in this context last month. It is impossible for me to conclude without addressing the subject of expensive life. The fact-finding mission launched by the delegation to the overseas countries and territories on the subject attests to its importance: our majority is anxious to contribute to the reduction of the cost of living, and I will take care of it as co-rapporteur. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to continue to ensure that the interests of our territories are safeguarded, I appeal to your objectivity: this budget maintains at a high level the appropriations dedicated to the State's public policies in favour of the development of the ultramarine territories. The continuation of these efforts requires that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u38	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u39	I will, of course, try to respond as precisely as possible to your statements and your comments – but we can come back to them when we ask questions and when we consider the amendments. Today I present my third draft budget as Minister for Overseas Affairs. Listening to your comments, I feel like we're working in the same direction. You know your territories better than anyone, you mentioned the problems of everyday life that affect our ultramarine fellow citizens, the problems that the Government has been providing, over the course of the budgets since 2017, structural solutions. While the state is obviously very expected in our territories, it is not there, however, to impose solutions from above – I have been watching over it for two and a half years now – to territories with very different characteristics, constraints and challenges than those encountered in the departments of the hexagon. The answers we have provided, which we will bring and which we will provide in the coming months and years, we have co-built them with the territories, the people and the elected, within the framework of the overseas foundations. It was this participatory framework that enabled us to build the Blue Book of Overseas Territories, the Government's real road map for overseas countries and territories, which was gradually implemented during the quinquennium. This blue book has three peculiarities: it was built after a broad consultation during the foundations, around the territories and their own issues, and the proposals it contains are all validated at the interdepartmental level. As you know, this roadmap is being followed closely by the interdepartmental committees on overseas countries and territories, which have already met twice in 2019, in February and September, under the Prime Minister's presidency. Further appointments are planned for 2020. I would like to point out that this type of follow-up has not been carried out in the last ten years. This interdepartmental roadmap is not only reflected in the budget of the Overseas Ministry. Many measures for the benefit of the overseas countries and territories are included in the various ministerial budgetary missions. In the finance bill for 2020, I am thinking in particular, in the area of housing, of the introduction of support for very social accession and the fight against unhealthy housing, or of the equalization effort announced by the President of the Republic for the benefit of the municipalities of the DROM – overseas departments and regions. As I recall, the overseas mission's appropriations represent only 2.6 billion euros out of the 22 billion traced in the cross-cutting policy document, not to mention the nearly 5 billion euros of tax expenditure. The amounts of investment – because it is indeed investment – in the overseas territories are historic. Turning to the Mission's appropriations, this 2020 budget maintains the Government's high level of ambition for the Overseas Territories. At constant scope, and without charge exemptions, the Mission's budget amounts to €2.6 billion in commitment authorities and €2.5 billion in payment appropriations. The commitment authorisations are therefore maintained at the very high level that had been allocated in 2019. I have heard some of your remarks, but it must be remembered that, in terms of commitment authorizations, this overseas budget is the best equipped one has ever known! The Mission's appropriations increased by more than 20 per cent last year, thanks to far-reaching reforms and transformations. In accordance with the commitment made by the President of the Republic on 8 July last, at the Ministry of Overseas Affairs, the entire means of action are preserved, in order to translate the blue book into reality and trigger the dynamic 5.0. This budget reflects four structuring priorities. The first is job support, which is the "zero exclusion" from trajectory 5.0. Employment ensures the social cohesion of the territories: it is the real lever of purchasing power. It is also a matter of individual dignity and pride for our fellow citizens. The Government is continuing this struggle throughout the national territory, and therefore, of course, overseas, where the territories are hit hard by the scourge of unemployment. If the task is tough, we have used massive tools. I am thinking first of all of the competence investment plan, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour at national level. For the overseas countries and territories, it amounts to EUR 700 million over the duration of the quinquennium. Investing in human capital is at the heart of our battle for employment. I know you share our point of view. We also profoundly reformed the social contribution exemption scheme in 2019, again giving priority to employment. I undertook to implement a re-visit clause, Mr Special Rapporteur. In checking the first effects of the reform of the exemptions voted last year, we found discrepancies, which were not included in our original forecasts: that is why we allowed the adoption of an amendment to the draft law on the financing of social security which improves the parameters of the scheme for companies and whose estimated cost is 36 million euros. In the reinforced sectors, it is zero charge up to two SMICs: 80% of wages are therefore entirely exempt from employers' charges in the DROMs. This is a concrete measure for employment. In some territories, socio-professionals have mobilized to enable young people to enter employment through professionalisation contracts. This is a good thing because, I repeat, we must all mobilize for employment. I thank them for their involvement. It is because we believe that the battle for employment is the mother of all battles, it is also because we must create the conditions for job creation in companies that we have developed, as I had committed myself to, specific tools to help businesses. In 2020, we expect EUR 24 million to this end – I will come back to that when we consider the amendments. These tools are as follows: Development of microcredit, through the strengthening of operators and the deflation of amounts; deployment in all territories of the Bpifrance offer, the Public Investment Bank, and the proposal of specific tools, including the extension of the conditions for access to the overseas development loan; effective factoring arrangements to reduce the impact on the cash flow of companies of payment deadlines, which are very detrimental in the overseas territories; Subsidy schemes to support investment and innovation; Finally, increased appropriations for freight aid. These combined efforts are beginning to pay off: over the past 12 months, 11,400 jobs have been created in the overseas departments, representing an increase of 3.5%. At the same time, there has been a very large decrease in the volume of the overseas unemployed by 2.3%, representing 8158 fewer job-seekers. This is the lowest level achieved since February 2014. Nothing is won, the difficulties are immense and the challenges are at hand: however, the trend seems good.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u40	"Semble"! But that is not true, and the people see it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u41	As you know, the fact that we are able to recognise this trend towards improvement will also help us to strengthen the momentum in the overseas territories. Many efforts remain to be made: I will be at your side to support them. Integration also requires the ADM, whose supervision is greatly developed to improve and individualize the follow-up of trainees: 127 additional FTEs will be recruited during the quinquennium, 35 of which in 2020. A new company will be established in New Caledonia in Bourail, in accordance with the Prime Minister's commitment. Nor should we forget the specific measures announced by the President of the Republic at La Réunion in the framework of the Petrel Plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u42	A beautiful bird... very fragile!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u43	This plan, Mr Clément – you also mentioned, Mr Ratenon – has 700 million euros, which are not drawn from the overseas budget. You will see this if you take up all the announcements that have been made: stabilisation, in the budget of the Ministry of Labour, of the CEP envelope – job skills path – to 12,000 jobs until the end of the quinquennium; more than 5000 training courses per year as of 2020; double the number of posts in the integration structures – which amounts to 7000 posts per year by 2022; the possibility for RSA beneficiaries to combine seasonal employment or to integrate an integration pathway, while retaining their right to the RSA. We also launched the experiment at La Réunion of free jobs, which will now be open to those who are in the process of integration: RSMA – regiment of adapted military service –, guaranteed young people, schools of second chance, without geographical obligation of residence. These measures, which reflect our commitment to make employment a priority in Reunion, as in all territories, must bear fruit. The support of ultramarine territories and communities – the second priority – is at the heart of this budget for 2020, which will be the first full year of implementation of convergence and transformation contracts, which were signed with the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and seven members of the Government last July. Funding for this component by the Overseas Ministry is increasing by more than 5% this year. These contracts are at the heart of the partnership between the state and the communities serving the projects of the territories. I recall that the Overseas Mission does not cover all the appropriations provided by the State, which amount to more than 2 billion euros over the period 2019-2022, not to mention the co-financing of the local authorities and European funds. The whole, which is considerable, bears witness to the state's level of ambition for the overseas countries and territories. These credits will make it possible to change the daily lives of the ultramarines. Of course, such a change will take time – as we all know here – because large infrastructure projects often take several years to get out of the ground. However, the credits are contractualized and therefore provide visibility to communities for their investments over the period 2019-2022. Accompanying the territories is also a specific support to the ultramarine communities. The Government has decided to revise the criteria for equalization between territorial authorities, which will result in an increase of 85 million euros in the amounts of equalization towards the overseas departments within five years, of which 17 million from 2020 – the President of the Republic announced this first stage on 1 February last. Beyond this effort, the Government awaits the findings of the mission on the local finances of the ultramarine communities in order to clarify the modalities for accompanying the communities in financial difficulty. For credits to be converted into roads and schools, engineering is also needed. In 2020, I therefore propose to increase by €3 million the appropriations entrusted to the Agence française de développement – AFD – and dedicated to engineering and assistance in the management of works. On 1 January 2020, the engineering platforms in Guyana and Mayotte will be fully operational; The recruitment of the nine managers is almost complete. In particular with regard to housing, I propose to dedicate EUR 7 million from the single budget line to engineering. I assume this, Mr Lorion, not to strengthen the means of the State but to be at the service of all those who, on the ground, intervene for the housing of our fellow citizens, whether they are the municipalities or the various operators. I repeat, we must assume this priority. Those who carry out these operations should be better supported. However, engineering is not enough: you have to switch to project mode. I know that, in this respect, the stone is also in our garden. At no time, Madam Member of Parliament Vainqueur-Christophe, do I exonerate the State from any responsibility for the delay in many operations in the territories. I'm used to saying things clearly. Without taking gloves, I wanted everyone in the Overseas Territories to take on their responsibilities in accompaniment. I have asked the prefects to pilot project engagement units with governments and communities. Authorizations must be released as soon as possible, as do notices. Our administrations must put themselves at the service of the development of the territories; It's imperative. Improving the daily lives of ultramarines is the third priority. This is in particular the purpose of the exceptional investment fund – EIF – which is fully preserved – 110 million euros for everyday projects, whether it be a stadium, electrification, harbour development or a renovation of the heritage. Among the projects funded by the EIF, I wanted to promote this year – this will also be the case next year – human-sized projects, local projects that can be carried out quickly, as well as projects that fall within the 5.0 trajectory: they benefited from 70% of the EIF in 2019, that will be 100% in 2020. Because good school accommodation changes the lives of children as well as parents, we also maintain €90 million in support of overseas school constructions, in addition to the efforts of the Ministry of National Education and Youth. Fourth priority: the implementation of the overseas housing conference. Following the conclusions of this conference, the State committed itself to maintaining the commitment authorisations of the single budget line – LBU – beyond EUR 200 million annually in 2020, 2021 and 2022. The amount of €215 million, considered insufficient in relation to needs and falling compared to the 2019 budget – which contributed €225 million to the EA – has given rise to many comments. For me, this is a minimum threshold based on the commitment capabilities found in the territories in 2018 and 2019. Indeed, I can only note that in the last two years, we have not been able to exceed the EUR 200 million threshold in commitment authorisations, despite all the efforts made at national and local level. The goal for 2020 is to reverse the trend thanks to the overseas housing plan 2019-2022 and the deployment of local plans. But, as you know, building and renovating homes doesn't have to be a finger-clap, and they need to be accompanied. Moreover, with an additional €18 million in 2020, the credits of overseas real estate companies, SIDOM, are on hand. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The PLF 2020 therefore reflects an ambition and means for the overseas countries and territories. I have heard your concerns and criticisms; I will have the opportunity to address them in the answers to your questions and in our discussions on the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u44	[[Smile]] Thank you, Minister, for these very comprehensive developments... We come to the questions, which, like the answers, must not exceed two minutes. Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u45	The budget of the Overseas Mission remains broadly stable, reflecting an unbroken ambition – although it does not in itself reflect the State's commitment to this issue. Minister, when you presented what you yourself described as Act II of the mandate, you reaffirmed your ambition with respect to trajectory 5.0. In the wake of the Overseas Blue Book, you have come up with a roadmap that includes measures as precise as they are ambitious: zero carbon, zero waste, zero agricultural pollutant, zero exclusion and zero vulnerability to climate change. While we can only welcome these objectives, in line with the challenges facing the ultramarine territories, I will nevertheless insist on improving the living conditions of the ultramarines and the social cohesion of these territories. Strengthening the leadership of community engineering, in particular, is crucial. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups. – Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion, also applauds]] What role and means does your department plan to give to the Overseas Mission to contribute to the success of the 5.0 trajectory? Will engineering facilities be implemented? More generally, I would like to know whether a budget forecast has been prepared to ensure that the trajectory is maintained in future years. Finally, will the implementation of each of these objectives be subject to an accurate and regular evaluation and, where appropriate, by what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u46	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u47	Trajectory 5.0 is about 2030, as is the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. It was officially presented on 8 April and is the result of several years of work, in keeping with the momentum that I have been defending since my participation in COP 21. On 8 July, the presidents of the local executive, together with the state, took a first step in signing Charter 5.0. Indeed, there is no sense in defending such an ambition at the national level if it is not equally relayed by our partners at the territorial level, first and foremost by communities and businesses. Following the signing of the charter, the fact that, as I said, 70% of the EIF was devoted this year to actions meeting criteria 5.0, before 100% in 2020, is another strong signal. It is also about ensuring that all departments integrate the trajectory into their funding. In addition, we are working with the Agence française de développement to create a 5.0 fund that will be added to the budget and actions we are undertaking under the EIF to support projects in the ultramarine territories. It is expected to be finalized by the end of 2019. For all of this, engineering is necessary. I have already mentioned its strengthening of engineering for the benefit of the territories, both for the communities and for the various operators. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] It is therefore a dynamic that is born; I hope that everyone will meet the many challenges facing the Overseas Territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u48	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u49	As everyone has said, the budget exercise is often very complicated, especially for the citizens who look at us; We will therefore have to make it an exercise of pedagogy and simplicity. As you have said, Madam Minister, not all the appropriations for overseas are included in the mission we are examining, far from it. This year, the Government has signed convergence and transformation contracts with the ultramarine territories, which include a financial commitment of €2.1 billion, in addition to the overseas budget that you declared to be Sanctuary last year and that you are confirming this year. However, when I analyse the cross-cutting policy document – TPD – which seems to me to be the appropriate tool to verify that we have the funds needed for the transformation of our territories, I note that the appropriations allocated to Réunion are down by EUR 170 million in 2020. This is considerable, especially since I have included in my calculations the various unallocated appropriations, including those relating to the gendarmerie or agriculture. How do we find the 2.1 billion euros in AE? On the basis of which indicators are they distributed among the territories – delays, human development, etc. - Is that what you're saying? Finally, if you confirm the reduction of 170 million euros, how can we achieve the expected convergence with less money?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u50	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u51	You mention the share of the 2020 budget reserved for convergence and transformation contracts signed with almost all the overseas territories – contracts with New Caledonia and Polynesia are under negotiation. At the level of all ministries, more than 2 billion euros will be allocated to these contracts between 2019 and 2022, some of them in 2020. The decrease you calculated for La Réunion corresponds to the decrease in the ACOSS forecast, which applies to all territories, and to the change in the scope of various measures. You give me the opportunity to refer to the declining forecast of ACOSS, also discussed by the Special Rapporteur and other Members. It raises a real difficulty: the figures that are communicated to us during the year, at different deadlines, completely alter our view of the actions we are taking in favour of the economic world in the territories. The ACOSS forecasts are therefore not without effect on the overseas budget, but the 138 programme will benefit from additional appropriations if necessary. The ACOSS assessment for next year is not consolidated, as the reform is only in July and the re-visit clause is expected to lead to an improvement in conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u52	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u53	I would like to return to programme 123 and cultural actions, in particular the line dedicated to financial support for audiovisual production. For having received and listened to us – thank you – you are aware that my colleague Stéphane Claireaux and I have published an information report on audiovisual production in the overseas countries and territories, which presents several recommendations to facilitate access to aid for audiovisual production and to ensure greater transparency with regard to the subsidies granted in this field. We mentioned the existence of a departmental fund under Program 123. Can you provide us with more information on the use of this fund and your targets for 2020? In addition, do you support the process of strengthening the presence mechanisms in bodies such as the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image – CNC – and the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel – CSA – in order to increase the visibility of the overseas countries and territories? Strong support for local production causes a tremendous leverage effect – I call on all my colleagues to look closely at this important economic niche for our territories: 1 euro of investment raises between 2.5 and 7 euros of local spending! My second question is not directly related to the Overseas Mission. As you know, we are going to table amendments to make the tax arrangements for cruise ships more flexible. Can you inform us of your position on the easing criteria requested, both on the concept of exclusivity and on operating times? Your support will be valuable to us in defending our position next week with the Minister of Economy and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u54	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u55	As far as artistic creation is concerned, the Ministry does have a fund of 400,000 euros to support various projects. Is that enough? We need to quickly assess the use of this fund, to know how many projects are now being rejected because of the lack of funds available. However, we are going to increase the envelope next week, to the benefit of associations, producers and creators, but, everyone has been warned, the decision is valid only for this year. We will therefore take stock. With regard to the application to ships of the overseas defiscalisation – with a rate of 30% agreed to those who invest in cruise ships with a maximum capacity of 400 passengers, the eligible base being fixed at 20% of the cost of the ship – I am, as you know, by your side. Three amendments deal with this issue, which I am discussing a great deal with Gérald Darmanin, who has so far been open to proposals; I hope that he will remain so and that, together, we can convince him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u56	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u57	I would like to draw your attention once again to the status of the Pacific military, which I mentioned earlier, and to the inequalities which they suffer. Of course, I would like to associate our Caledonian colleagues with this question. The employment forum held very recently in French Polynesia was an additional opportunity to measure the roots of the armies in this territory. Three of the seven information booths were dedicated to the armies and their success was total: the young people rushed to engage. Remember that the army recruits 400 to 500 young Polynesians each year, as much as in Réunion, which has three times as many inhabitants. Although this may seem delusional, the rights of a French soldier vary according to their origin. If he is from Guadeloupe, Guyana, Martinique or La Réunion, he will be entitled to an installation allowance in France, or INSMET; If he's from the Pacific, he won't be able to claim anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u58	If he's from Mayotte either!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u59	Indeed! Families also face many difficulties, especially administrative ones, when they come to the hexagon. They must be accompanied to promote their integration into the labour market and to enable them to enjoy their rights. The context is that of the 2018-2022 family plan, designed to support families and improve the living conditions of military personnel. The minister of armies, whom I interviewed earlier this year, had committed to reviewing the situation of the Pacific military by 2021. Given the high recruitment rate on our islands, can we hope for a commitment for 2020? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LR groups. as well as on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion, also applauds]] Minister, can we count on your support so that Pacific soldiers and their families can legitimately claim the same rights as military personnel from any territory of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u60	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u61	Member of Parliament, I know your fight on this. Military allowances are regulated by a 1950 text that excluded overseas communities – COM – including Mayotte, who was one at the time. This is unfair, and I am tempted to assure you of my support; But it will be up to the minister of armies to answer you. In any event, if a change in the system were to be considered, it could only be in the context of a general review of the military compensation regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u62	No, it's just a decree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u63	The Minister of the Armed Forces intends to conduct this reflection as part of the new policy for the remuneration of the military that she will conduct.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u64	It's too long!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u65	I can understand that the process may seem too long, indeed. I am replying to you as I am correcting the minister of armies, but I will speak to her again and see if we can move faster. She has, of course, heard your question, but for the time being it is within that framework that it is planned to provide an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u66	Where there is a will, there is a way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u67	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u68	It doesn't say how long it takes to go through it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u69	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u70	Madam Minister, there is a shortage of 100,000 housing units in our overseas territories, where 150,000 people live in unworthy conditions in the Republic. Indeed, one out of twelve ultramarines lives in spontaneous housing. That's almost 300 times more than the national average. In Guyana, 13 per cent of dwellings lack electricity and 20 per cent lack access to drinking water. And to see the funds allocated to overseas housing, it seems your government has thrown away the sponge. Who can tolerate such a situation and accept that a part of the population should be kept out of Republican laws that raise the right to housing to the status of a right enforceable in the territory of the human rights nation? The fight against violence, school failure or the deteriorating social climate would be meaningless if we did not tackle the problem of poor housing, which is clearly one of the sources of these problems. On the question of housing allowance accession, you acknowledged your mistake: so much the better; But what about the funds allocated for the construction and renovation of social housing, which now appear to be in danger? I am thinking in particular of the commitment, obtained under the former majority, to double Guyana's single budget line to EUR 100 million in 2020 as part of the operation of national interest. Against this promise, the €215 million allocation for housing for all overseas countries reflects a relative decrease for 2020. However, last July, the overseas housing conference called for the stabilization of the financing of the long-term operation of national interest, through a multi-annual agreement of objectives with the State. Where are we? The same question concerns the approach taken by the European Commission to justify derogation procedures in Guyana for simplified planning and the eradication of slums. Was she hired? If so, what are the results and the timetable? What about the too expensive land and the additional costs that remain a real barrier to construction? All of these questions require specific answers from you, Minister. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u71	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u72	As I said, the single budget line has €215 million in the draft finance law for 2020 and will be supplemented by the SIDOM appropriations, bringing the total amount to €233.5 million. We must also count on the mobilisation of our partners – the voluntary housing action investment plan is no less than €1.5 billion for the overseas territories – and with all the other ancillary measures that we can benefit from. These resources cover all the overseas territories, and we must repeat that. The momentum generated by work at the national and local levels must be harnessed. Tools need to be used more by all overseas territories. For Guyana, you refer to an amount of EUR 100 million; I would trust you, but according to the data available to me, we are at 60 million euros for 2020, in accordance with the commitments made, after 37.2 million in 2017, 46 million in 2018 and 50 million in 2019. So I'm going to look for more. As far as the emergency plan for Guyana – PUG – is concerned, the trajectory will be respected. With regard to your other questions, I can tell you that we continue to defend Guyana's plans to build the housing that is lacking in this territory even more than in many others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u73	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u74	To this second question, I associate Jean-Philippe Nilor, who is detained in Martinique with his father-in-law. Our ultramarine territories are exposed to severe constraints due to their containment and dependence on air transport. This dependency is all the more strong as our families are, in the vast majority, separated from the oceans, so taking the plane is a recurrent obligation for many ultramarine households. However, as it is applied, the principle of territorial continuity proves to be incomplete and inadequate: when it applies, it is only valid within our territories or towards the hexagon, but never between the ultramarine territories. In addition, the mobility passport vocational training – PMFP – is now like a real tool to control the mass exodus of our living forces. At the same time, the price of air tickets between overseas countries is steadily increasing to reach totally prohibitive fares, which become obstacles to freedom of movement. Guyana and the West Indies suffer particularly, as they suffer from the institutionalized exodus of their labour force. In this context, the continuing decline in mobility aid and the partitioning of funds dedicated to territorial continuity are simply incomprehensible. In view of the fate reserved for them by the executive, we think that our territories have certainly become very cumbersome. The cycle of clear cuts and shameful inequalities continues, and the same are always true. Minister, we really need to change software and put an end to harmful practices that are all permanent house arrest. Our compatriots also have the right to move within and outside their territory in complete freedom, equality and fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u76	What commitments do you intend to make to national representation to improve the mobility of our populations, especially our young people?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u77	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u78	First, links or mobility within each territory are the responsibility of the regions or each community. If it is a question of changing the distribution of competences between the Overseas Territories and the State, then let us discuss it: you know that I am very open to a redefinition of the competences and relations between the State and the communities. In any case, with a few exceptions, some of which apply to your territory, internal mobility is the responsibility of the communities, whether they are archipelagos or islands, as in Polynesia – we are also aware of the difficulties faced by territories as large as Guyana or Guadeloupe, which also includes islands. As things stand, you cannot ask me what I intend to do: I can't do anything because, I repeat, this jurisdiction falls within the jurisdiction of the territories. On the other hand, we will have real debates on territorial continuity, which is the subject of several amendments. What needs to be taken care of? What are the mobility needs of the territories? The Overseas Agency for Mobility – LADOM – devotes resources to territorial continuity, in particular by taking charge of the travels of some young people. Should we go further? Should we do better, more? We will come back to this with the amendments and I will make proposals to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u79	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u80	The objective of the second overseas housing plan – which covers the period 2019-2022 –, which had not been achieved by the first, remains to build or rehabilitate 10,000 housing units each year in the ultramarine territories. This plan was adopted at a time when the governance of social housing is in the midst of a change in Reunion. The transfer by the State of its shares in the SIDOM to CDC Habitat, a subsidiary of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, has launched a large concentration movement in social housing. Indeed, the sale of the real estate company of the department of La Réunion – SIDR – was closely followed by the acquisition of control of the housing company at moderate rent of Réunion – SHLMR – by Action Logement. As a result, the two largest social donors, each representing more than 25,000 housing units, no longer have their decision-making centre in Réunion. This recomposition is in the process of accelerating with the acquisition of shares in the other operators involved in social housing, or even with the acquisition of the latter. The local landscape, which has been characterized for many years by the intervention of seven social donors, risks becoming a duopoly. This concentration corresponds to the recommendations of the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development, known as the ELAN Law, not to say that it precedes it. It raises a threefold question. The first concerns the consequences of the dominant position of these two major bodies – all the more so as they are also, as you confirmed last July, the preferred partners of the Government's strategy. Does their presence at all levels mean that they will become the main players in social housing in Reunion? The second question concerns the place of local communities in one of the key issues in our territory and measures to prevent communities from becoming mere spectators of housing policy. The third question relates to spatial planning and the town's factory, given the disappearance of the main tools of local mixed economy societies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u81	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u82	You are right, Madam Member: in the territories, and particularly in La Réunion, we are witnessing a movement of support from the social donors to Action Logement or CDC Habitat, as decided long before my arrival in the ministry – I am only following this dynamic that, on the other hand, I approve. Social donors thus benefit from strengthened resources, while the impact force was lacking overseas in housing construction. This pooling of forces can only improve the effectiveness of donors, which will enable them to achieve the objectives set in order to meet the expectations of our citizens. For La Réunion, it was planned to build 5,000 housing units per year, a goal that had never been achieved, while that figure would have to be revised upwards. For my part, I hope that concentration will strengthen our capacity for action. With regard to the place of communities, I would like to point out that four seats on the board of directors are reserved for the departmental council of La Réunion. These advisors contribute to the decision and represent 43.2% of the capital of SIDR. It cannot be said that local elected officials will not be involved in the decisions that will be taken. For my part, it seems to me that we need to build housing in an efficient manner and by involving communities, which is the case in the chosen arrangement. This is a long-standing decision taken at the right time and will be in favour of housing in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u83	Community representatives are a minority!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u84	It's the blocking minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u85	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u86	"Growth is picking up"; "Inflation undermines purchasing power"; "First decline in paid employment since 2012"; "Unemployment and its halo are rising"; "A very difficult year for agriculture"; "The number of building permits is shrinking." These sentences are not criticisms of an overly virulent opposition, but the titles of the main chapters of the brochure that INSEE devotes to La Réunion's economic performance in 2018. We are far from the ambitions of the 5.0 trajectory, and the 2020 finance bill does not seem able to close the gap despite the restoration of a few measures, which have been required for many months. Surprisingly, the proposed budget does not take into account one of the social movements that has hit La Réunion the hardest. It also suffers from a lack of visibility, especially as it is linked to the reform of exemptions from employer social security contributions, the compensation of which accounts for 60% of the overseas mission. Unallocated appropriations continue to increase while the entire mission is subject to the variations of Action 01, relating to these exemptions. This budget is also becoming increasingly disconnected from reality with the removal, without any other form of trial, of unused payment appropriations. Nearly 100 million euros disappear precisely where expectations are among the highest: fewer loans for housing, a sector where needs have been known for a very long time and where blockages are not only a matter of failing project engineering; fall in public infrastructure credits, while the EIF had to recover the 70 million from the reduction of the income tax benefit each year. As we feared, the account is not there. Should it be concluded that under the principle of budgetary annuality these amounts will not be reinjected into the overseas economies as planned? Should we not innovate so that the budget of the Overseas Mission is forward-looking, by impulsing new actions more focused on our assets, such as a blue fund, a short circuit endowment or a recycling plan that could embody strategy 5.0 within the mission itself?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u87	Bravo, that's very true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u89	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u90	Madam Member, I share your view on the creation of a 5.0 fund, which I am likely to announce by the end of the year. On this occasion I hope to benefit from your support for all, necessary to instill a dynamic. On the other hand, I cannot let you say that the aspirations and demands of Reunion and Reunion have not been heard. You know I'm listening to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u91	No, I don't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u92	We answered the main question, the question of their purchasing power. First of all, the activity premium represents an additional EUR 50 million distributed to seventy-two households in Réunion, an increase of 43 per cent in funds disbursed. All over the world, the increase is more than EUR 100 million. Thanks to the exemptions from unemployment insurance contributions decided last year, which you mentioned, employees paid to SMIC earned €21.90 per month. For a person paid at the level of two SMICs, this represents 526 euros of additional income per year. [[Mrs Ericka Bareigts and Mrs Huguette Bello protest]] The removal of the housing tax, which we also discussed in La Réunion, results in an increase in purchasing power of 132 million euros for overseas countries, including part for La Réunion. The additional reliefs related to the exemption of expenses voted in 2019, or under the draft finance law for 2020, amount to €160 million for salaries up to two SMICs. This should boost employment in Reunion, as in other territories. The first results can already be seen.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u93	What results?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u94	We have also doubled the appropriations dedicated to the Observatory for Prices, Margins and Revenues, the OPMR, in order to support work on the cost of living in the overseas territories and to enable us to answer the questions raised. Finally, as you know, we have appointed an interdepartmental delegate to competition overseas, who is conducting studies in La Réunion and will also be able to work on the subject of the cost of living. I am very open and recognize the importance of the debate. Nevertheless, I cannot let you say that we did not hear the Reunions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u95	But I'm saying it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u96	The situation is serious. The Petrel Plan, announced by the President of the Republic, aims to strengthen our proposals with additional resources to the Overseas budget. In all honesty and honesty, the effort for La Réunion is probably the most important ever made. I'm ready to discuss this with you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u97	Stop saying that. I have different numbers. Tell the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u98	[[Mrs Ericka Bareigts protested]] ...figures in support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u99	I take the word of mine, ma'am.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u100	[[At 4:50 p.m., Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u101	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u102	The "Overseas" mission aims to improve the daily lives of the ultramarines, to better support our territories and to support housing and employment policies. I would like to ask you about the first two points, Madam Minister, with a view to improving the visibility of the overseas countries and territories and improving their understanding of their problems. These are essential subjects, because they cross several fields of public action: they can concern equal opportunities such as the attractiveness of the territories – and thus the representation of our territories in the minds of our fellow citizens. At a time when the interministerial delegate for the equality of opportunities for the French overseas is in the process of being replaced, public policies must be developed in favour of greater visibility for the overseas countries and territories, better understanding and better recognition of the specificities of our territories, so as to make them attractive. Ultramarine visibility is beginning to improve, thanks to the overseas visibility pact, signed with France Télévisions, which you wanted and obtained with the support of a group of parliamentarians, senators and MPs, very invested and determined. Here I greet my colleagues Raphaël Gérard and Maina Sage, with whom I actively contributed. Our republican foundation – especially with regard to equal opportunities – will emerge strengthened by a better knowledge and understanding of the overseas by our fellow citizens of the hexagon, in the different spheres of society. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] So what means does the Government intend to use to increase the visibility of our territories and equal opportunities, in order to help our ultramarine fellow citizens, both in the hexagon and in our territories, take their rightful place within the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u103	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u104	You are referring to the visibility of the ultramarine territories, a sensitive issue that we must address, first of all in the media: this is the meaning of the pact that we proposed to France Télévisions and which we signed, the Minister of Culture and myself. I would like to thank you, as well as Members Raphaël Gérard and Maina Sage, and others, for participating in this work and making this pact possible, by identifying objectives, indicators and mechanisms that will improve the visibility of the overseas territories. France Télévisions is already implementing the pact, as I have seen for the past two months. Real changes have taken place; We are pleased that the overseas is more present on the group's chains. As for the position of interdepartmental delegate for the equal opportunities of the French overseas, you know that its former holder, Jean-Marc Mormeck, decided to join the regional council of Île-de-France in order to work there for the neighborhoods. I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his involvement in the last three years alongside the ultramarines, to defend their rights at the national level. However, I believe that the scope of what was known as the DIECFOM must evolve. I have therefore proposed to the Prime Minister, on the one hand, to create an interministerial delegation for the visibility of the overseas countries and the equal opportunities of the French overseas, and, on the other hand, to link it not to the Prime Minister but to the Ministry of Overseas Affairs. The aim is thus to strengthen the integration between the ministry's team, LADOM and the delegation, for a greater coherence of the policies carried out by the various actors working to the visibility of the ultramarines in the metropolis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u105	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u106	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u107	I call the "Overseas" mission's credits, listed in statement B. I call Mrs Ramassamy to support Amendment No. 1221.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u108	While last September Hurricane Dorian did not cause any casualties but caused some damage in Martinique, Hurricane Irma devastated the islands of Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy almost two years ago. Cyclones, hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes, floods, heavy rains, torrential floods, volcanic lava flows, submersions: the ultramarine territories face multiple risks while aggregating certain vulnerabilities such as insularity for the most part, multi-insularity for others, the smallness of their territory, the high population density, the concentration of populations on coastlines or the persistence of precarious habitat. France must prepare for the climate disruption caused by global warming, first by adopting more environmentally friendly modes of transport, consumption and production, and then by developing resilience to risks. But how can we prepare ourselves to deal with the risks when risk prevention plans, however mandatory, are not effective or remain incomplete in all the overseas countries and territories? How can we prepare ourselves when the fund for the prevention of major natural risks, known as the Barnier funds, is underused by the ultramarine territorial authorities, for lack of sufficient support from the State? In addition, the action of the armed forces had proved to be beneficial in the last natural disasters facing the Overseas Territories. However, recent reforms in the number and distribution of armies have reduced their presence. For all these reasons, my amendment aims to create a 50 million euro fund for the prevention of major natural risks for overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u110	I can understand our colleague's legitimate request, but 50 million euros is a lot! The question of the financing of this fund naturally arises, especially since the summary of the amendment refers to a doubling of the appropriations allocated. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u112	First of all, I would like to welcome the quality of the work being done in the National Assembly and in the Senate on the subject of major natural hazards. However, an interdepartmental delegate for major risks overseas has been appointed: he is conducting a reflection on this issue, going around all the overseas territories and is going to propose, within a few months, with all the elected representatives concerned, a bill that we will have the opportunity to discuss together. I would also point out that other tools exist: I am thinking in particular of the Barnier Fund, which offers aid to which a wider range of works are eligible, the Green Fund, or the EIF, which has granted EUR 4.5 million this year to La Réunion in order to absorb the write-offs. I therefore do not think it necessary to set up a prevention fund, at least for the time being. Above all, I believe that the work that has been undertaken must be able to come to an end. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u113	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u114	Mrs Ramassamy's proposal is entirely legitimate. If an interdepartmental delegate is currently working on insurance and reinsurance procedures, you are well aware, Madam Minister, that the damage caused by a cyclone or hurricane on highly exposed and fragile islands poses a particular problem for people who do not benefit from insurance or who are particularly vulnerable to such natural disasters, especially if they live on the coast. After every cyclone, after every flood, after every storm, we need to support families for a given time. The creation of a specific fund, whatever its name, is a very old demand. I am sure that the interdepartmental delegate will propose solutions, but I doubt that they will really help protect and support the poorest. In my personal capacity, I will therefore vote in favour of Mrs Ramassamy's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u115	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 1666.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u116	If I may, Mr President, I would like to defend Amendment No 1673 at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u117	Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u118	These two appeal amendments allow me to return to the situation in the overseas countries, and in particular in La Réunion. Ms. Bello referred earlier to the particularly serious economic situation of this community. You yourself acknowledged, Madam Minister, that there was a real problem of purchasing power; Of course, but there is also a real employment problem. If your answer to the purchasing power problem is simply the removal of the housing tax, it will not solve everything: 40% of the inhabitants of Réunion live below the poverty line. When we do not re-align social minima to the level of inflation, which reaches 1.3% in Réunion – this is the highest rate we have known since 2012 – we do not settle anything either. Do not answer, Madam Minister, that the fault lies with your predecessors. You're in your third fiscal year, and everyone wants things to move forward, but that doesn't work! The INSEE's 2018 economic report for La Réunion and Mayotte, written in collaboration with the EIDOM – the Overseas Departments' Emission Institute – shows that the years 2017 and 2018 have been catastrophic: growth has collapsed, unemployment has increased by 2 points...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u119	No, it's dropping!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u120	... and the "halo" around unemployment now has more than 600,000 people. In the previous four years, however, the trend was reversed. You initiated a reform of economic aid last year. It was implemented with a lot of delay: the decrees were published on March 15, 2019 and amended in June of this year, leaving companies with a very high degree of uncertainty for six months. This raises the question of system governance and transparency in determining the amount of aid. A second topic is worth mentioning: during my previous mandates, I put on the table the question of the aids and exemptions that could be granted to young graduates. Today, the young Reunions return to the country; They want to work but are very frustrated, very angry because the exemptions that existed between 2.5 and 3.5 SMIC have disappeared.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u121	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u122	Amendment No 1666 is a pure appeal amendment: our colleague has not really defended it, and for cause, because it is difficult to finance. With regard to Amendment No 1673, the decline in the LBU is a real problem. On the other hand, if we look at budget implementation, we can see that only 162 million euros were spent in 2018. However, the draft finance law for 2020 establishes the LBU at 215 million euros in commitment authorisations and 190 million euros in payment appropriations: this will be better than the implementation 2018! Let us all work together to improve the budgetary implementation of the LBU, in particular through the measures that we will discuss a little later. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u124	Unfavorable. I note, Mrs Bareigts, that you have not really defended your amendments. You said that there were more job seekers in Reunion. It's not true: there are fewer of them, as I announced earlier – and it's not I who say it, it's Pôle Emploi. You also accuse me of not supporting enough the 40% of the population living below the poverty line; I am not sure that these people are really waiting for exemptions on wages above 2 SMIC – their incomes are much lower!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u125	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u126	You say, Madam Minister, that there are fewer job seekers in La Réunion. Of course, there is a slight simmer at the end of 2019, but the 2018 figures presented in the document I cited show a real drop in the employment situation in 2017 and 2018. These are facts. That the reform implemented is effective enough for this fallolade to have been caught up in six months, I would like to hear it, but it seems difficult to believe. In addition, we have both the opportunity to implement low- and medium-wage subsidies and exemptions and the duty to introduce further higher wage exemptions than those in charge. Young graduates do not return to Reunion, and when they return to their native island, they do not have an offer of salaries in managerial positions commensurate with their commitment. Often, however, their parents, who belong to the modest and middle classes, have made a lot of efforts, a lot of sacrifices, and would like their child to embody success in their territory. We can therefore act both on low and medium wages and on higher wages: one does not prevent the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u127	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u128	On Amendment No 1673, Madam Minister, I would like you to give us an extremely precise answer. I think you're confusing; That's why I want to help you, not push you. Mr Special Rapporteur, you certainly remember the long-standing debate on the re-establishment of Article 199 of the General Tax Code, which in the past allowed owners occupying a building in the overseas countries to detract from the expenses associated with the rehabilitation of the latter. This option has been removed and replaced by a tax credit limited to the renovation or restoration of HLM housing. In other words, you have moved the tax expenditure from private rehabilitation for owner-occupiers to the average income towards the rehabilitation of HLM heritage. Our colleague David Lorion said something very important earlier: you have completely forgotten the owner-occupiers with modest or low incomes. Intellectually, spiritually, numerically, you have delegated policies for these people to the National Habitat Agency, ANAH. However, in La Réunion, the ANAH does not exist: it is represented by a large administration, the Directorate of the Environment, Planning and Housing, the DEAL. So we no longer know at all who finances the rehabilitation of the dwellings for the occupants. You have an incredible niche there if you want to get the building and public works sector to work. While some companies in this sector are closing, what are you doing to restore the buildings of the owner-occupiers? What financial means do you devote to this action? In this regard, the figures are the lowest in the world: I have never seen such a disaster in such an important area. Add to all this the need to equip buildings with mechanisms of resistance to earthquakes. Very many neighbourhoods in Martinique, Guadeloupe and Guyana need health and structural rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u129	This is also the case in Mayotte!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u130	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u131	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 1605.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u132	All the amendments that I will defend are appeal amendments. The appropriations entered on the single budget line, which therefore concern housing policy, have been down by €32 million since 2017. What about next year, when you can no longer count on the millions of euros from the law on statutory and institutional provisions relating to overseas, the DSIOM law? By this amendment, we therefore propose to return to the appropriations allocated last year by increasing the LBU by EUR 10.5 million. Like many of my fellow citizens and many businesses in the housing sector, I am truly concerned about the under-investment and under-budgeting that we are witnessing today and that is growing from year to year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u134	A budget is useless if it is not consumed. I share your concern, Member. For me, talking about under-budgeting is irrelevant: let's talk about under-execution, and let's ask ourselves, like our colleague Lorion earlier, where are the blockages; let's talk about engineering. The level of appropriations proposed here is well above the rate of implementation of appropriations voted last year. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u136	Indeed, we are all concerned about the under-consumption of appropriations. We offer 215 million euros in EA for 2020, while we were not able to commit the 200 million voted for 2019. It is obvious that the sum we are proposing today is not up to the needs of the overseas territories – the entire overseas budget would not be enough! But we are keeping the possibility of redeploying the appropriations from programme 123 to the LBU in the course of implementation, and I will do so in full transparency vis-à-vis all parliamentarians if this proves necessary. Unfortunately, I remain convinced that in 2020 we will not be able to consume all of these credits. On the other hand, we are working to launch a real dynamic in the territories; I think it is all the more likely that the results of the housing plan are very much expected, particularly by the construction sector. We will have to go faster and farther from year to year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u137	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u138	You have still not answered me about rehabilitation, Madam Minister, but, knowing you and how much you respect parliamentarians, I have no doubt that this will come. You sold the family jewelry and there's nothing left. Family jewelry is important not so much because it's about gold, silver, diamonds, and the feeling they give you to own something. You got $45 million for this year, but how much will you get in the future? This has allowed you to artificially increase the financing of housing: so much better, or so much worse! But, I repeat, it is not only material that you sell: it is a spirit, a capacity for engineering, for creation. I have never, in twenty years of public life, heard that Martinique and Guadeloupe do not consume budgetary appropriations because they are unable to launch operations! What does that mean? That we're incapacitated? I do not accuse you of being in this state of mind, but those who hear us might conclude that we would be tebè, as they say in Creole: people who can't do anything. That's not the case! We would be able to act if you had not re-centralized the housing policy managed by SIDOM, thus depriving us of our local engineering capacity. The local invention, the local imagination, is what is important! Your 40 million euros, use them to stimulate local authorities, to work again on the provision of land, the opening up of roads and various networks, the reconfiguration of the mechanisms to accompany the so complicated rehabilitation of old centres, the revival of the policy to combat unhealthy housing. This is how you will drive a dynamic of active credit consumption at the local level, thanks to local intelligence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u139	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u140	Since you're raising your voice, I'm going to raise my voice too, even if it's not good for anyone! I do not understand your annoyance: this alleged sale of family jewellery dates back long before the arrival in the affairs of this government; Today I am only managing the result of the sale, at the service of the overseas territories. But I do not criticise what I think was a good decision because we lack the force to strike in the Overseas Territories, as I said earlier. I never said and you'll never hear me say that the ultramarines would be incapacitated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u141	I've never made you say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u142	It would be tantamount to calling myself an incapable since I am an ultramarine – and I am very proud of it! Far be it from me that these territories do not have enough competent people, young graduates. This is an organizational problem. The state services no longer have the engineering to ensure that files are processed quickly. The overseas communities are now facing difficulties such that they do not always have enough resources to finance local engineering. When I propose credits for engineering, it is not for government departments to use them, but for communities to use local expertise to move faster and further in the processing of these cases. See the housing plan, Mr. MP: it responds exactly to all your requests. But it comes not only from me – I attended two meetings – but from all those who participated, parliamentarians, communities and professionals working on the subject: my role was limited to opening the session and validating their work at the end of the day. This is the result of the method of co-construction that I have always preferred. Barely named, I launched the overseas housing conference, which was held this year – of course, I have been a minister for two and a half years, but there were other priorities to be addressed in the first year. In any case, we are at the meeting, with new tools, a new dynamic, a new way of doing things that should bear fruit – and if that were not the case, we will have to go through the evaluation very quickly. I am very pragmatic: no one has infuse science, no one has me more than the others. As for the support for the rehabilitation of the private park, the budget allocation does not date from today: it is the fruit of history, the ANAH funding the landlords and the LBU the owner-occupiers – and the appropriations for this component are increasing. I would have liked the ANAH to become even more involved in the Overseas Territories, but other choices were made when the housing plan was launched by all those associated with it. For the period 2019-2020, the ANAH will pay the unified premium to landlords and occupants, as compensation for the tax credit now abolished; In particular, it concerns energy renewal. We must use all the new tools created through the ANAH, the LBU and Housing Action. I know that the defiscalisation is not as you wish, but I am betting that all these tools will nevertheless allow us to bring solutions to the territories more quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u143	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u144	[[Smile]] There are two reins that are starting to suck my air, Madam Minister. The first is "it is not the fault of this government if...": this argument must be evacuated, if only because of the principle of continuity. If there is one here who can make this argument, it is I rather than you, my colleague Letchimy, and all those who supported the government that made this choice. At least let's take over the past! The second thing I don't care about is the lack of engineering. We've been building overseas for decades! When an ultramarine mayor wants to build a new town hall, he calls on a study office and eventually organizes an architectural competition. What changed in 2019 to allow you to say that we lack engineering overseas? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The problem is elsewhere. The problem is that, as my colleague Lorion explained to me, the local government services are organizing themselves to slow down the progress of the cases and to argue at the end of the year about the delay in the investigation of these cases in order to postpone their processing to the following year. Let's stop! It is not engineering that poses a problem overseas, it is the political will that is advanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u145	Before giving the floor to Mrs Nadia Ramassamy, in support of Amendment No 1219, I should like to inform you that, on this amendment, the Republicans have requested a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. You have the floor, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u146	In March 2018, during his State visit to India, I had asked President Macron to reinstate the home grant. He had committed himself to it, and I welcome the fact that he is honouring this commitment, as he announced during his recent trip to La Réunion. However, the finance bill does not address the problem of overseas housing. The LBU is less equipped than before; The appropriations for home ownership, social housing and the fight against unsanitary and unworthy housing are also declining, while it is estimated that more than 100,000 housing units in the ultramarine territories, not to mention spontaneous housing. The need for habitat improvement is therefore considerable in our territories. My amendment therefore proposes to increase the appropriations for the "Housing" action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u148	[[Exclaims and smiles. – Mrs Justine Benin applauds]] Dear colleague Ramassamy, I owe you the truth...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to the Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u150	... as well as our colleagues Letchimy and Kamardine: there has always been under-consumption of the overseas budget, but not everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u151	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u152	Last year, some territories, such as Polynesia and New Caledonia, which had so far been able to absorb unconsumed credits during the year, failed to do so, and this problem of budgetary under-consumption began to emerge. [[Mr Mansour Kamardine exclaimed]] The same causes with the same effects, let's start by consuming the credits that are proposed to us before we want to increase them. Moreover, the summary statement of your amendment mentions the removal of the housing allowance accession without reporting its recovery... Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u154	The LBU is no less endowed as you say, Madam Member, but better equipped thanks to the proceeds of the sale of interests in SIDOM. That is true, we are very late in the area of housing in Réunion. However, I can give you an example of under-consumption of housing credits in this territory. I mentioned it yesterday, but you were not there, and I think it is important to repeat it to those who claim that there is no problem with the consumption of budgetary appropriations: the EUR 24 million allocated to the Quadrilatère Océan project was returned, the operation being unable to take place due to an operator's failure. As for you, Mr. Kamardine, who are in constant contact with your fellow citizens, operators and communities, it is not difficult to tell me exactly what projects are blocked by the DREALs, and I can assure you that you will get an answer. For months, the prefects have been instructed to "press" the state services so that they accompany the projects instead of blocking them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u155	There are even prefects who mention it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u156	...but I need to be aware of the difficulties that exist so that we can deal with them. You're also telling me that there's no engineering problem. However, the first thing the Mayotte elected representatives asked me when I came to this territory at the height of the crisis is more engineering to be able to meet Mayotte's considerable infrastructure needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u157	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u158	Madam Minister, when the Access Housing Allowance was removed, you told us that 900 files were being processed by the government. Do you know how many leftovers are still not treated? Almost half! However, the DREAL and the SEM have enough competent people, as well as the planning services of the local authorities. All these people see each other, there are no blockages; There are study offices and architects in these administrations. The difficulty is the workings, the decision-making mechanisms: in the overseas countries, neither the rules for the use of public money nor the rules for decision-making are the same as in the rest of the national territory. That is why I proposed, yesterday and this morning again, to create an information mission to understand where the blockage is. The problem is not necessarily engineering, but often procedures and decision-making processes between state and local authorities. Let's not repeat next year the same engineering remarks and allocate the funds in the same way, without speeding up the processing of the files!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u159	I call Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u160	I have the impression that the question of engineering has become the sea snake or the cream pie of our debates! When we refuse to increase the appropriations of a budget line when it is necessary, we are told that we do not know how to consume them. The same was true of water in Guadeloupe: during a famous meeting during a ministerial visit, we were told that we could not repair the pipes because we did not have the engineering to do so, while the nerve of war – which we miss – is money. In Guadeloupe, it takes five years, no less, to see a successful application for assistance for habitat improvement. I therefore support my colleagues who are calling for the creation of an information mission on this topic...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u161	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u162	...because the blockage is at the level of the workings of the State, the department or the region. People do not see their files examined and are obliged to ask parliamentarians to intervene with an administrative officer or an elected official to advance their request, while their house with a corrugated sheet roof flees during the rainy season – which lasts six to eight months. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] It is therefore necessary to stop bringing out this history of lack of engineering. In the overseas regions, particularly Guadeloupe, there are people who have studied in metropolitan France and come back as metropolitan engineers; They've been running the infrastructure for years. We have to stop with this engineering story because it infantilizes us and lowers us compared to the metropolis!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u163	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u164	To abound in the direction of our colleagues, I will take the example of the famous loan guarantee necessary for projects to build or renovate social housing. In order for a project to be validated, it is necessary to deliberate the departmental council and then the municipal council, and other formalities. Only these procedures can take six months. When it comes to the investigation of cases, solving the difficulties requires, at some point, working together. To conclude the procedure, it is necessary, once or twice in the year, to bring together the relevant communities and services – the Directorate of the Environment, Planning and Housing, the Administrative and Financial Directorate, etc. – around the prefect. Otherwise we send emails and letters with never-ending acknowledgment of receipt; And all this is time and therefore suffering for families. So yes to an information mission to assess the state of things, but also take concrete, pragmatic, real measures to unblock situations. Finally, as I pointed out last year, the increase in the EIF's resources adds new tasks to the services of the municipalities, which are already very much sought after – both overseas and in metropolitan France. Between roads and schools, they already have a substantial amount of work. For example, in Saint-Denis, the duplication of classes required 3 million jobs in two years; This translates into an increased demand for services, which were not organized to deal with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u165	Yes, exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u166	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR and UDI-Agir groups]] On top of that, the EIF-related solicitations are also added; At one point, it is no longer possible, neither humanly nor technically. I therefore think that continually increasing the resources of the EIF means recentralising the decision in Paris. There is a need to find another way to manage calls for projects, including convergence contracts negotiated on the territory and planned over one, five or ten years. This seems to me to be fundamental: communities are no longer able to do this because they are being asked to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u167	So there's too much money!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u168	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u169	I would like to focus a little more on the question of engineering, which I know for carrying out several missions – in particular on the financing of heritage restoration – within the framework of the Committee on Cultural Affairs. The disengagement of the State from certain support services in the area of contract control, which it once offered to the communities, but also the increasing complexity of the financing arrangements create a real difficulty in our country, in all territories. It is not a question of competence, training or bad will of the communities. The situation may be even worse in the ultramarine territories, but there is generally a real shortage of assistance in the management of works and assistance in the setting up of projects, both in engineering and in financial matters, which considerably slows down funding; The problem concerns the whole country and we should work on it collectively. I also think we all need to see this budget gain in sincerity. The minister just recalled: we name problems that we see on a daily basis in our territories – metropolitan as well as ultramarine. Of course, the budget can be renewed by refusing to recognize the difficulties. However – I agree with Mr Lorion – to name the problem is the beginning of the solution. The next step is to look for the structural causes of the difficulty in consuming appropriations, but the sincere effort shown in this budget deserves to be stressed. This is a first step that should enable us to improve the procedures and efficiency of financing, thus facilitating the setting up of operations and increasing the speed of their implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u170	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u171	I would also like to bounce back on this topic because the problem is the same in terms of the challenges of globalization. The subject is recurring, but what solution should be chosen? To opt for the sincerity of the budget, who would, since we are not able to consume the credits, want them to be reduced, or to double the means to facilitate access to these credits? We are ready to work with AFD to create an overseas engineering platform, but let us be ambitious for our territories and trust them. That is the core of the problem: every year, with my colleagues in Caledonia, we ask for decentralization of education, but we are not trusted. So we spend our time making round trips between administrations. I am pleased to see that there are so many of us on these benches, and I thank the Hexagon colleagues present in the debate. I know that you also have this difficulty in your constituencies; you see the complexity of being an hour's train from a particular service. So imagine what it is when you're twenty-two hours away from the plane, and in addition, in Polynesia, you're taking another three hours of plane within the community! We need to give us substantial financial and technical resources, not to reduce appropriations on the pretext that we cannot consume them; I'm not in line with that vision. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Therefore, out of solidarity, we will support the amendment. It must be noted that this type of response is not acceptable, especially in view of the dire and urgent needs of our territories, in particular of La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u172	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1219.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u173	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 81 Number of votes cast 79 Absolute majority 40 For adoption 24 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u174	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 1606.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u175	In its report on the budgetary implementation of the Overseas Mission for 2018, the Court of Auditors pointed out: "Despite the ministry's stated priority of promoting decent and adapted housing for overseas populations [...] budgetary expenditure on housing has never been as low as in 2018". The Court also specified the existence of "a significant gap, of more than EUR 60 million, between the forecast [...] and the realization [...] of expenditure devoted to the construction of social rental housing" and "an under-execution of the appropriations dedicated to the reduction of the most precarious and informal situations". On the basis of this observation, which questions the capacity of the communities to carry out projects, this year the Ministry decided to switch €7 million to the "Accommodation" project to finance engineering and project management missions for the benefit of the communities. It is an approach that we ask for and support. However, these EUR 7 million are taken directly from a LBU, already down by EUR 10.5 million, and represent less and less for construction and renovation. With this amendment, we therefore propose that the 7 million be added to the LBU 215 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u177	Engineering is an important issue. I would like to reassure colleagues, particularly Mr Letchimy and Mr Mathiasin: this is not a contempt for the ultramarine territories because the faults in this area lie on three levels. First of all, there is a lack of engineering at the state level, since the DGOM was shaken a few years ago. Secondly, there is a lack of access to the deconcentrated services of the State, particularly the prefectures. Finally, the lack is also significant within local and regional authorities. It is therefore not a question of stigmatizing the latter, the problem being general. In addition, engineering is also to be taken in a broad sense, beyond the engineering corps alone. I therefore agree with Mr Lorion that we need to understand what is blocking and why, and how we can unblock the situation at the legislative or regulatory level. Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe, the committee has not voted on the amendment, but I personally support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u178	Ah! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u180	This is the second time I've been loaned something I haven't said. Mrs Sage, you say that you are told: since you do not consume the credits, they are reduced. But that's not true! Since it was discovered in June that New Caledonia and Polynesia could not solve the problem of under-consumption of credits, which had lasted several years, I have been trying to grasp this difficulty – as well as all the difficulties I face at the overseas ministry. I worked on the issue of chlordecone, sargasses and beef in La Réunion; I have not refused to face any difficult subject, and I personally deal with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u181	That's your role!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u182	I myself preside over the meetings and try to move forward on all matters. In the same way, I have taken up the issue of under-consumption of appropriations and will not let go. I will come back many times because we need to find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u183	Precisely, what is your solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u184	One of them, and I join Mrs Bareigts, can be brought by the High Council for Public Order, which we have relaunched in La Réunion. In fact, Brittany began to draw inspiration from this example by organizing regular meetings between the originators and all those responding to public contracts, in order to better know the blockages, react very quickly and be operational. That is also the case, to be pragmatic, and I believe that this type of tool can be generalised without the need for some to give lessons to others. In fact, I challenge you to quote me only once when I, an ultramarine, would have taught ultramarines a lesson. I am looking for solutions, and some overseas territories are proposing them, like La Réunion, I have just mentioned it. I am sure that others can be shared so that we can respond more quickly to the needs of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u185	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u186	I spoke on this important subject in my report, after we referred to it in the Committee on Laws and the delegation to the overseas countries and territories. I am also personally in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u187	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u188	Indeed, it does not run counter to what the minister has just said; It does not run counter to her intention or to the statement she delivered yesterday before the Overseas Delegation – our colleagues here remember it very well. It is precisely because you are going to lead this expertise, the minister, who, I hope, will involve Members of the various territories, that we can imagine solutions. This amendment gives a first signal, and I believe that this year we cannot sanction under-consumption of appropriations; This would be tantamount to being called back to the court after being tried. We must take into account various endogenous, exogenous, structural, historical and very complicated factors, certainly the minister, but at least the message given by this amendment goes in your direction and that of our colleagues in the various territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u189	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u190	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u191	I am very pleased that the rapporteurs give such a relevant and positive opinion. You know, Madam Minister, that ten or twenty years ago, it was enough to sacrifice, on the outskirts of cities, a land area, often of agricultural origin, to build 500 or 1000 housing units, in what are called "cities", in Guadeloupe or Guyana, in particular. Now, because of the scarcity of land, the construction of housing is much more complicated: instead of building 400 or 500 housing units at once, ten or twenty programmes of ten, twenty or thirty housing units have to be launched. We are therefore faced with land-related complexity. In this respect, Mr Vainqueur-Christophe's amendment is very relevant. Indeed, who takes the initiative to build housing? They are not just the operators, but they are the town halls, the EPCI – the public institutions of inter-municipal cooperation – and the communities in general. But, in order to determine the conditions for access to the land, its opening up and its development, we need a relevant engineering – and not a global one, that's where I'm right – thanks to which we will be able to consider that, in such a place, we can build thirty housing units under such conditions – it's a heart of town, between several buildings, the soil is bad and so we have to adapt it, etc. This amendment therefore goes, I repeat, in the right direction. Perhaps, by the way, you could add the 40 million euros you have planned for engineering to take into account the exceptional land burden, due to the complexity of the land. That is how you will solve part of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u192	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor to support Amendment No. 1216.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u193	Our ultramarine compatriots too often live in unhealthy housing, not to mention the informal habitat that persists in our territories. Similarly, the uncertainty over the future of the accession housing allowance for many months has led to a serious crisis in the construction sector. This is probably why the operator did not use the dedicated funds. I therefore propose once again to increase the spending on housing in order to put an end to unworthy housing in the ultramarine territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The tragedy that took place on Rue d'Aubagne, in Marseilles, a year ago, must prompt us to redouble our efforts in the fight against unworthy and unhealthy housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u194	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u195	This is a very relevant intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u197	The intention is good, but it is only a matter of adding 300,000 euros to the 215 million euros of the "Housing" action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u198	It's a gesture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u199	It's too little to be meaningful. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u200	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 1608.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u201	The purpose of this amendment is to obtain clarification from the Government on action 04 of programme 138. This action, created by the PLF for 2019, concerns, I would remind you, new schemes from the resources released by last year's tax reforms such as the extinction of the uncollectable value added tax and the reform of the income tax. Last year, although we were in favour of new measures in favour of the economic fabric, we announced the origin of their financing, i.e. the puncture carried out through the reforms made on the backs of taxpayers. For 2020, we note that this budget line is experiencing a very large decrease of €32 million, from €56 million to €24 million. Is our reading the right one? Are these funds expected to disappear in 2020? Finally, the budget blue states: "Because of lack of information and support, ultramarine companies are reluctant to participate in national calls for projects. Should we understand that this fact justifies the tightening of appropriations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u203	In 2019, €23.5 million was programmed in commitment authorisations and this amount increased to €24.3 million, an increase of 3%. Similarly, payment appropriations are increasing. Since, contrary to what you're saying, credits are not falling, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u204	Amendment No 1667 by Mrs Ericka Bareigts is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u205	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 1668.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u206	It deals with a subject that we discussed at length in the meeting with the Minister of Labour during the discussion of the bill for the freedom to choose his professional future. We have come back, together with several Members of Parliament from overseas, on appointments with the minister's office, and we have worked on them in the overseas delegation. It is for us to highlight, with the change to contract costs, the possible inadaptation of the fixed cost for apprentices in the overseas territories and departments. Indeed, some training courses are not offered in our territories, so a young person must fly elsewhere to take the training that he or she wishes. The question therefore arises as to who will pay this extra cost – which is part of vocational training. Can this structural difficulty not be taken into account in the contract cost? If the order was made, it only addresses the youth's social difficulty – which is already positive – but does not take into account the issue of distance. With this appeal amendment, we invite you to find a solution to compensate for the extra cost of vocational training, due to mobility to Hexagon but also to neighbouring countries – I have, in the same vein, unanimously adopted two amendments aimed at opening up alternance training in companies resident in the large countries located in our respective basins. We need a very clear answer from you, Madam Minister, Mr Special Rapporteur, if we are to give our young people a chance to succeed in their professional career.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u208	This issue falls within the scope of the "Work and Employment" mission; the Commission has not given its opinion. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u210	I am delighted that we were able to work together on the answers to the question. I am informed that OPCOs – competence operators – can support mobility. We'll check it out. If so, the answer is found; If this is not the case, we will notify. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u211	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 1669.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u212	We have already discussed engineering at length. The solution you are proposing, Minister, is to be accompanied by AFD. Why are we not using – this is the meaning of this amendment – the ANC, the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories? Our colleague, Maina Sage, has repeatedly called for overseas representation. It may not be able to address all the problems associated with engineering – it concerns certain types of communities. But we can already use an existing body, which will make us a bit of money, through AFD.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u214	You ask again the question of engineering – and about it. The role of the National Territorial Cohesion Agency needs to be clarified. It is true that the Government's efforts are evident for Mayotte and Guyana. I myself will propose to abound with EUR 2 million, which would be devoted to the strengthening of engineering, the appropriations for the "Land planning" action of programme 123. For your part, you propose to increase these appropriations by 28 million euros... In principle, although the committee has not given its opinion, I am in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u216	The ANCT exercises its prerogatives throughout the territory – therefore in the overseas territories as well. It will be in place from 1 January next. Perhaps the rise of the ANC will allow us to save money in engineering as we anticipate today. However, frankly, AFD can go much faster because it knows the overseas territories, and we have no time to waste. I would like to see significant engineering efforts maintained for 2020, and then we will see how the ANC could intervene in the Overseas Territories. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u217	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u218	It would really be very interesting to have a clear point on the action of AFD: where does it intervene, how, for how long? I had done it for Mayotte on water – a question that required special accompaniment. For the time being, as we know that the problem I have raised is essential and that AFD is dealing with it, I would like you to provide us, Madam Minister, with a specific return to her work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u219	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u220	I suggest that you respond next June to the review of the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u221	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1132.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u222	It aims at denouncing the decrease in the appropriations allocated to the "Housing" action of the "Overseas Living Conditions" programme. Without taking inflation into account, payment appropriations are down by EUR 29 million – by EUR 32 million if inflation is taken into account. Since the signing of the Overseas Housing Plan in 2015, action to promote housing must be a major focus of our public policies. But how could a public policy as important as housing – in particular social rental housing, on which we have placed a great deal of emphasis, or very social, and emergency housing – be a priority if we cut our funding? You can see that doesn't make sense! Madam Minister, I hope you know the disastrous situation of housing overseas. Tens of thousands of ultramarines are waiting to find accommodation. Before they do this, they often experience unworthy living conditions in unhealthy housing. How many of them still live in sheet metal boxes, especially in Mayotte? How many are in serious danger as soon as a climate event occurs? We cannot accept this reduction in appropriations. That is the meaning of our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u224	I believe, Mr Ratenon, that you have just defended Amendment No 1133 instead of No 1132. The latter aims to abolish more than 26 million credits from the "Overseas Living Conditions" programme for living conditions overseas! By doing so, you remove the credits dedicated to supporting access to bank financing. I'm unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u225	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, do we consider that Amendment No 1133 has already been defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u226	No, Jean-Hugues Ratenon did indeed support Amendment No 1132. Amendments Nos 1132 and 1133 are two appeal amendments based on a transfer of appropriations from Action 09 "Support for access to bank financing" of Programme 123 to emergency funds. In this case, it is a matter of transferring EUR 25 million to a new emergency fund to combat the cost of living in the overseas regions, a major problem. The State recognizes this problem since it grants a cost-of-living allowance to its civil servants, but unfortunately a large part of the population does not receive any specific assistance to compensate for this difference in standard of living with Hexagon. INSEE studies regularly show price disparities of up to 38% for food. Mass unemployment and low incomes create a situation of increased poverty in our ultramarine territories: it is more than twice as high as that found at the hexagonal level. Families find it increasingly difficult to pay their bills, take care of themselves, move around, access culture, etc. We believe that this situation is not in line with the fundamental rights of our ultramarine fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I was referring to the price of food, and the question of the development of local ultramarine agriculture also arises. In many ultramarine territories, not to say in the vast majority of them, more than 80% of the food is imported when there is a way to develop local agriculture, or rather local agriculture, in order to move towards greater food autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u227	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 1136.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u228	This is a new appeal and denunciation amendment. We propose that EUR 25 million be redeployed from the "Support for access to bank financing" action to a new emergency fund for additional assistance to territorial continuity, designed to help the territorial continuity of all overseas countries and territories. A right of constitutional value, territorial continuity must be the responsibility of the State. Partly assured by the latter, but also by some overseas communities, territorial continuity as it exists is not enough and it is unfair. At La Réunion, taxpayers largely finance their territorial continuity through the region. An unfair and aberrant situation must be rectified which severely penalizes the people of Réunion. We propose to replace the participation of ultramarine communities with the creation of an additional emergency assistance fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u230	[[Smile]] Mr Ratenon, I will pay attention to what I'm saying about you, because some of the words can be edited on social media... Territorial continuity is important and the question you ask is fundamental. To finance your new fund, you will receive €25 million in the "Overseas Living Conditions" programme, without saying how you will finance the support for bank financing that you are depriving of these credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u231	There are no margins!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u232	Many amendments deal with territorial continuity, and I am sure that the Minister is sensitive to this; However, I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u233	Sub-amend!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u235	This amendment is the first that deals with territorial continuity; There will be others, and we will have an opportunity to discuss them. However, with regard to the policy of territorial continuity carried out by the Réunion region, I would point out that this is a choice on its part.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u236	A demagogic choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u237	And expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u238	We do not have to substitute for her or intervene in her choices. It is true that territorial continuity is part of the missions of LADOM, which is able to put in place a number of specific arrangements. Some are not implemented because the local system – call it so – is more advantageous, more interesting and perhaps more responsive to certain expectations; the President of the Republic had the opportunity to speak on the subject. We will be talking later about LADOM, because I think it is necessary to review the various aids.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u239	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u240	Territorial continuity has been the subject of a report requested by the Minister responsible for transport; I had the honour of writing it after having arranged several hearings. When we talk about this subject, we neglect two issues. Territorial continuity is not only valid between overseas and Paris, even if it is necessary in this case because price differentials from one period to another are truly scandalous and remain at the expense of the local population. The ticket for a flight between Fort-de-France and Paris, depending on the period, goes from 300 or 400 euros to 1200 euros. I'm talking about the same ride, the same chair, the same schedule. The State has decided that everything will be regulated by the market; He chose the competition between companies. This solution works during so-called "deep" periods, but not during periods of crowding. We also forget the question of the other territorial continuity: internal territorial continuity. The price of the flight ticket between Guadeloupe and Martinique has increased from 80 to 250 euros. There is the scandal of the connection between Fort-de-France and Cayenne: the price of the ticket is twice that of a flight between Fort-de-France and Paris! We must really try to do everything we can to overcome this social divide. We're in a republic. In this respect, Corsicans have won a fight. I do not make a trial of intention in Corsica but, in any case, for historical reasons, or perhaps other reasons, the State respects the territorial continuity between Corsica and what is called "the Hexagon". The means used in this context have nothing to do with those devoted to the territorial continuity of the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u241	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u242	I'm making Mr Letchimy's remarks. Madam Minister, I have asked you about the territorial continuity between the overseas territories, more specifically between the French departments of America. I have the impression that you have not answered my question: you have only told me that this jurisdiction falls within the competence of the local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u243	It's an internal competence!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u244	I support Amendment No 1136 tabled by Mr Ratenon, because we have always considered that the fact of being born overseas should not constitute a handicap. However, many comparative studies show that there is no picture between what a resident of Cayenne, Fort-de-France or La Réunion must pay and a resident of Nice or Marseilles if they want to go to Paris, for example for compelling reasons of health, because of the death of a relative or to pass a contest or an examination. I believe that we are victims of some kind of criminalization when we have nothing to do with it. For all these reasons, which we believe to be imperative, we repeat, and we will continue to do so as many times as necessary, that the maintenance of territorial continuity must be a matter of sovereign competence. It is within the competence of the State to ensure continuity between the territories far from Hexagon and hexagonal France. It is not a question of facilitating the resorts in Paris – even if one might imagine that the inhabitants of the overseas countries can stay in the capital as tourists, as the Marseilles or Corsicans do. We are talking about stays for imperative and major reasons. We will have to give ourselves the means to answer this question seriously at last.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u246	I call Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe to support Amendment No. 1607.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u247	It aims to maintain at last year's level the appropriations for Action 04 of Programme 123. This action brings together several interventions, on the one hand in the health and social field, and on the other hand in the cultural, sports and youth fields. We understand, of course, that there are reductions in appropriations which correspond either to the cessation of the financing of completed projects or to transfers to other programmes. However, we do not understand why these sums are not retained in the mission's budget to finance other health and social measures. Everyone knows that there is no shortage of projects and needs in this area. In addition, it is worth recalling that in 2019, according to the 2018 Budget Blue: "This action benefits from €4 million in EA and €4 million in CP from the rebudgeting of uncollectible VAT recoverable (NPR) and the reform of the income tax reduction in the overseas departments. While these sums are still being punctuated on taxpayers and businesses, while the health and social situation continues to deteriorate overseas, such amounts seem to be permanently lost for the overseas for the benefit of the state budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u249	Everything about youth, culture and sport is important overseas more than anywhere else. The decrease in credits you're reporting is a matter of concern. I am sure that the Government will have some far-sighted explanations. I give an opinion of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u250	That's justified!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u252	I'm gonna be less wise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u253	As usual, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u254	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe, you propose to go back on reductions in appropriations decided either because of debasing – I am thinking of the transfer of the old-age allowance from Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon to the old-age solidarity funds – or because we have reached the end of investment programmes – as is the case for Papeete's oncology department. There are also ongoing reflections, for example on the construction of the convergence contract with French Polynesia, in connection with the inspection report on the future of support for the RSPF – the solidarity regime of this territory. There are, therefore, many explanations for each reduction in appropriations, and there is no justification for the re-integration of the EUR 15.5 million in question. The actions you are targeting for this amount no longer exist, so you would have to tell us what these appropriations would be spent on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u255	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 1676.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u256	He is close to the one that Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has just supported. Madam Minister, we are thinking in particular about the promotion of sport. There are many young people in our territories. Sport is also a necessity, in two ways: firstly, in a clear way, for social cohesion; And then for self-esteem, for it embodies success and builds confidence, all things that young people need especially. However, our sports associations are in great difficulty, not just because of the loss of assisted contracts. We need new infrastructure, local infrastructure, which we lack, and not necessarily large infrastructure. They must be located as close as possible to young people, in neighbourhoods, in order to promote sports practice. The amendment alerts the Government to the 15 million reduction in funding for "Sanitary, Social, Culture, Youth and Sports", while we must continue to invest in sport, youth and culture, and initiate new projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u258	For the same reasons as those mentioned above, it is a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u260	You know how attentive I am to this, which is essential for our youth. My first job was as a popular education and youth advisor. Sport, popular education and support for associative life are among my priorities, as evidenced by the following three elements. First of all, we have doubled the credits of the FEBECS, the exchange fund for educational, cultural and sporting purposes. This was essential and we will continue to support this fund, in particular to meet the mobility needs of sports clubs. Then, as you know, I asked three ministries to come and abound with FEBECS: the Ministry of Sport, of course, but also the Ministry of National Education and Youth, and the Ministry of Culture. For the time being, only the Department of Sport has committed to supporting it, but I hope that the other departments will also be there. And €7 million from the Overseas Ministry plus €7 million from the Ministry of Sport will be allocated to the convergence and transformation contracts for sports structures, which should also be recalled. Finally, the EIF has also come to support sports infrastructure projects in various municipalities this year – as is probably the case in the past. I will add to these various elements the increase in the associative envelope. So we're at the project meeting! My opinion will be unfavourable on the amendment. I am, however, listening and, if it is necessary to go further in supporting sports practice, we will do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u261	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u262	The FEBECS is very difficult to mobilise in the territories, as sports clubs do not know that it exists. An effort should therefore be made to make him better known in the field. The fund was also set up to encourage the movement of young people in the area, which seems essential in order to promote the opening up of the territories and develop their relations with neighbouring countries. Obviously, for sports, cultural or educational projects, the structures, whether as an association or as part of national education, do not, in my view, sufficiently solicit FEBECS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u263	[[Smile]] The Special Rapporteur said "wiseness" and he voted against it! He's at the command of the elites!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u264	The separation of powers doesn't mean anything anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u265	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 1674.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u266	This appeal amendment deals with a subject that is of particular interest to us: legin fishing in the French Southern and Antarctic Lands, the TAAFs. This activity is regulated by the state, and it is a good thing: the resource must be managed; We need to be intractable on quotas. In three years, the turnover of southern fishing arms increased by 60% in 2017, to EUR 129 million; So it's a case that reports:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u267	A good deal, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u268	...white gold. It turns out that the procedure has been amended to open the quotas only to fishermen who have been authorised to practise it, and the new procedure is accompanied by a specification. However, among the criteria selected for the selection of candidates is that of the creation of direct and indirect jobs in the territory, and some local enterprises have been denied their application as a result of this criterion. Do you see what I'm getting at, minister? How and in what form will we be able to be informed, in a transparent way, of the actual job creations in a territory linked to the fishing of toothfish? White gold brings a lot of money to companies that are not fully rooted in TAAFs but have been allowed to fish at the end of the calls for projects. The issue is therefore important. A lack of transparency would, I think, be the source of many frustrations and necessarily anger.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u269	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u270	The subject is important, in fact, but it is not the responsibility of the Overseas Mission. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u272	This still deserves some explanation. You're right, Mrs. Bareigts, toothfishing is a serious issue. This fish is rarely consumed in French territories, but more in other countries. Indeed, it can be described as "white gold". A review of the fisheries management plan took place, with calls for projects and licensing allocations. I have already had the opportunity to remind the Assembly of the Government's priorities in this area. It matters to me, as to you, that the wealth of the overseas territories, whether land or sea, benefits them. Since we have created the criterion of direct and indirect job creation in Réunion, we will have to take stock every year of their precise number, which I will come to present to you. You may be aware that one of the candidates who was not successful at the end of the licensing process filed an appeal. We will also have the opportunity to return to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u273	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u274	I regret that my colleague Olivier Serva, chairman of the delegation to the overseas countries and territories, left the Chamber, because I confess that I did not understand correctly when he declared that the fishing for leguminous vegetables did not concern the overseas mission. France prides itself on being the second largest power in the world thanks to the overseas countries, as the President of the National Assembly reminded us this noon, in a brilliant speech. And now we are asked, as Aimé Césaire would have said, to be alien to our own geography. I am not speaking to you, Madam Minister, but I am responding to the Special Rapporteur's reply. The development of the overseas countries – Mayotte, La Réunion, Martinique and Guadeloupe – is not strictly linked to their internal organisation. It is fundamentally linked to a need for emancipation, a need for relations with neighbouring countries. Nothing makes sense without this maritime dynamic of trade through cabotage, marine biodiversity research or energy, cultural and sports policies. Amendment No 1674 is certainly an amendment of appeal, but it is time to remove the overseas ministry from its ghetto and to give real meaning to the word'sea', so that the influence of these territories will no longer be affected by the shortening of thought to the local dynamics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u275	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u276	The last three-year plan for the management of the toothfish fishery contained the terms of reference that you validated, Madam Minister, with the other departments. The terms of reference provide for a return on investment for local economies and the creation of jobs located in the island territories of La Réunion. My colleagues Ericka Bareigts and Serge Letchimy stressed the need to assess, every year or every three years, the real impact of this activity. I would add that it would be possible to create a fisheries sector by creating training in the maritime economy. We are lagging behind in this area. It is very important that young reunitees can benefit from the presence of shipowners in Réunion, but also in Brittany and the Atlantic, to take advantage of a multitude of internship sites. This activity of the French Southern and Antarctic Territories could thus benefit the young people of Réunion as well as those of all the other overseas departments. This sector can only be formed with national and international leaders, who will be able to accompany this training work, which, in my view, must be clearly reflected in the expected results of fishermen who have obtained the authorisation to exploit this white gold, which is the legine, which is subject to quotas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u277	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u278	A project for the high school of the sea trades is currently being considered in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u279	For 2025! It's too far! We've been talking about it for ten years!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u280	You are right, and that is why we have set the training requirement among the criteria to be met. The overseas blue book set the following deadline: before the end of the quinquennium. Thus, before the end of the quinquennium, we should therefore have in Reunion, as in the other overseas territories, a high school of the sea. I will ensure that the commitments made in the blue book are fulfilled; You're right, 2025, it's too late. As for legin, it is indeed a real wealth, which we must preserve. I recall that it is managed on the spot by the Prefect of TAAF. The subject is therefore well managed locally, even if I am attentive to the file.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u281	The President of the Reunion region bears a heavy responsibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u282	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 440.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u283	It concerns the relief fund requested in the event of major climatic hazards. In 2018, the Senate delegation overseas issued an information report on major climatic hazards and mentioned, in full transparency, the hearing in which you participated, Minister. It concluded, at the end of 2017, that the means of this fund were notoriously undervalued, which the year 2018 unfortunately confirmed. The amendment aims to double the funds allocated to the relief fund from 10 million to 20 million. This amount will obviously not be enough, but it will make us a little better armed in the face of future hazards. We know from experience that the overseas territories are increasingly exposed to the effects of global warming. We all agree here, I am sure, that a slightly thicker mattress will make it possible to alleviate, in the urgency, the difficulties of the exposed populations. Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Oma are all arguments for strengthening this fund. [[Laughs]] I will end up on a slightly lighter note, reminding that Emile de Girardin said: "To govern is to foresee. You can only be convinced, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u285	[[Rites and exclamations]] Having heard this last argument, I rely on the wisdom of the House!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u286	What a hypocrite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u287	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u288	It is true that I spoke to the relief fund with the senators of the Senate delegation overseas. Hurricane Irma had just struck Saint-Martin and the amount of EUR 10 million could then seem small. Like you, I didn't think it was enough. However, it corresponds to an annual average, which we have calculated. However, I am obliged to admit that if we increase the funds of the relief fund and there is no crisis, they will not be consumed and we will have to give them up next time. I don't want to go into this cycle and I prefer to plan 10 million euros, even if it increases its appropriations to 20 million euros if there is a crisis like in 2018 – when the fund's budget had reached 20.3 million euros. The appropriations I am proposing are therefore not taken from the envelope of the other actions in the overseas territories. The year I took the lead in this ministry, I would have followed you, Mr. Dunoyer, but I am now more cautious about this mode of operation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u289	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u290	This appeal amendment clearly highlights the growing difficulty we will face in managing the risks and disasters that may ensue. This morning, in the Committee on Sustainable Development, we received the Chair of the High Climate Council, who delivered her report in June. She told us that France is also lagging behind in the area of risks because there is no coherence of public policies. Thus, we are reducing the number of staff working in the stations of Météo France des Overseas while working on a general plan for coherence and improvement of the prevention of natural risks in these territories. Coherence lies not only in the increase in budgets but also in the harmonisation of actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u291	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u292	May I take it, Mr Dunoyer, that Amendment No 460, similar, has been defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u293	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u294	At the same time, I would point out that, at the rate we are making progress, there are still five hours of debate on this mission, knowing that there is another one after that and that we must think about our colleagues who will examine it. I invite each other to speed up the pace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u295	This is just my second speech, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u296	My observation was not personally intended for you; It concerned all the speakers, including the other rapporteurs and the member of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u297	I will be brief, but the purpose of this amendment is different from the previous one because it is upstream, in the area of risk prevention, by proposing to provide the equivalent of the Green Fund more. This is a subject that my colleague Maina wise and I know well, and that she had the opportunity to present shortly ago. I would remind you that, strangely enough, the communities in the Pacific are not eligible for either the Barnier Fund or the Green Fund built on the basis of COP21, and that this bizarreness has led to the creation of what could be termed a "green fund" within the Overseas Mission. We propose a cautious solution, probably insufficient, with the Senate delegation to the overseas countries and territories suggesting in its report, like many of us here, the creation of a dedicated extrabudgetary structural fund, which would avoid the risks of under-consumption depending on the reality of the situation. I speak on behalf of the territories of the Pacific, which are also very exposed, some even say the first exposure to the effects of global warming and rising waters. It is also a reality in many non-French territories that are already experiencing rising waters in this part of the world. If the effects of the latter are unfortunately often irreversible, it would be symbolically important for the Green Fund of the Overseas Mission to be provided with additional funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u299	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The draftsman referred to a Senate report calling for the creation of an ad hoc fund for the Pacific. I believe that the Government will tell us how it sees things. I, for my part, issue a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u300	He's brave!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u302	I checked, because we talked about it yesterday in committee, and I can confirm that there are a lot of zero-rate loans from AFD under the Green Fund – even if everything depends on the cases. I also checked whether the planned envelope – a total of EUR 42 million, of which EUR 24 million was allocated to the Green Fund made available to AFD by the Overseas Ministry – was used in full: there is a balance of EUR 2 million, which means that we are not in the project package. The appropriations I am proposing therefore meet the needs, if not the needs, at least the demands. I have an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u303	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u304	The green fund mechanism consists of loans, not grants. These zero-rate loans to communities and public services represent substantial aid, even in light of the savings realized by the absence of interest payable. Mr. Dunoyer proposed that a fund should be set up to finance directly. I would stress this, because if we have been able to respond to requests through this enhanced loan mechanism, it is a mistake, because our communities cannot access any other funds! It's a legal vacuum! It is not normal that Polynesia, because of its autonomous status, such as that of Caledonia or other territories, should not be able to access national funds, if, moreover, it is considered too French to be entitled to European funds or to other international funds! For this is the reality: it is because we are French that we cannot access it. In my view, this new ad hoc fund would also respond to an emergency in the face of climate risk, because I recall that the territories of the Pacific are full of small islands, low islands in relation to sea level, especially atolls – France holds 20% of the world's total number, almost all of them located in the Pacific. In addition, 90% of the pollution we experience comes from other territories than our own. In all respects, this amendment seems to me to provide a common sense response. The problem may not be resolved this afternoon. Nevertheless, Madam Minister, a lot has already been discussed together, and I hope that the Government will be able to create a specific mechanism at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Sage.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u306	Until then, it is imperative that you take into account the current legal vacuum in order to allow our territories access to this type of subsidy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u307	Mrs Guion-Firmin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1185.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u308	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Ms. Maina Sage also applauds]] It aims to transfer EUR 2 million from Action 01 of the Overseas Employment Programme to Action 06 of the Overseas Living Conditions Programme, in order to provide the Emergency Fund with an additional EUR 2 million. It is regrettable, given the vulnerability of our ultramarine territories, that the resources of this fund are equally limited and do not allow it to properly carry out its current mission or the major challenges ahead.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u309	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u310	For the same reasons as on Amendment No 440, this is a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u311	On Amendment No 1226, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u312	The inequalities in access to health between Hexagon on the one hand, and the ultramarine territories on the other, remain of great concern. As evidence, life expectancy is several years lower in the latter, the mortality of premature babies is higher, as is overall infant mortality. Malnutrition, exposure to toxic substances, exposure to vector diseases, medical deserts, the shortage of specialists and the very difficult financial situation of hospital centres are phenomena that affect ultramarine territories even more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u313	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u314	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My amendment therefore aims to provide additional funding for Action 04 "Sanitary, social, cultural, youth and sports".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u315	Very good idea! Very good amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u316	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u317	[["Ah!" on several benches of the LR group]] The problem you are talking about, Mrs Ramassamy, is very real, since medical deserts are more important in the overseas world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u318	Wiseness!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u319	However, you are proposing to abound the budget line "Sanitary, Social, Culture, Youth and Sports" when I am not sure it is the right one. Instead, this increase should be placed within the more structural framework of health policy and solidarity. The committee did not pronounce itself. Personally, I give a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u321	First of all, I would like to say that the Minister for Solidarity and Health is very committed to the Overseas Territories and is well aware of the difficulties each of them faces. And then I have important information: the reform of the rum vignette, which you voted in the first part of this PLF, will enter into force from 1 January 2020; In the long run, it will provide a fund that will reach €30 million as the tax rises. It was your assembly that decided that. It is also a sign of a strengthening of prevention in the overseas territories. I would point out that 280000 euros have been allocated to associations working in this sector by the Ministry of Overseas Affairs. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u322	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u323	You answer the future by talking about the rum tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u324	January 1, 2020!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u325	You say you carry one envelope over another, but there is no evaluation to date. I think you need to reconsider your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u326	Yes! At least she's consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u327	I call Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u328	Madam Minister, you are telling us that this $30 million fund, which is abounded by the rum tax, is for prevention. I remind you that I am one of those who strongly opposed last year's increase. But I believe that we will no longer need this amount for prevention since the Government has decided to install one hundred radars in Guadeloupe out of the 450 planned for all of France in 2018-2019! One hundred radars on 1035 kilometers of road, one every 10 kilometers! Never seen it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u329	[[Smile]] There's probably too many accidents in your house!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u330	[[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] It is true that thirty-two people have died in Guadeloupe since the beginning of the year, including seventeen pedestrians or drivers of two-wheelers; on that train, we will no longer need funds for prevention... As there should be no more road accidents and therefore no more deaths, I propose to reduce or retain the number of radars if you wish, but in any case to devote the savings thus achieved to prevention issues and to abundate action 04, as my colleague proposes, that is to say to increase the possibilities of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u331	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u332	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1226.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u333	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 71 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 23 Against 45
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u334	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1478.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u335	The future framework programme was launched in New Caledonia in 1989, following the Matignon Accords, in particular to enable Kanaks to hold positions of responsibility through training in Hexagon. The scheme promotes the training of middle and senior managers to meet an objective of economic and social rebalancing, by training the natives of the ultramarine territories in high-level positions. In New Caledonia, the scheme has borne fruit. For example, in the National Police, 95 per cent of police commanders are Caledonian, and only 24 of the 421 police officers are metropolitan. The same applies in the gendarmerie and in education. In view of this success, the future framework programme was extended to Wallis-et-Futuna and Mayotte at the start of 2018. The purpose of this amendment is to benefit French Polynesia in order to promote the accession of Polynesians to high-level positions and to participate in the oceanization of executives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u336	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u337	The future framework arrangement is a success in New Caledonia, and I believe that it should be generalized to all overseas countries. Ms. Sanquer proposed that it be applied in French Polynesia. I am very much in favour of this in my personal capacity, even though the Committee on Finance has not given its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u339	He's unfavorable. New Caledonia is indeed affected by a very specific programme, namely the future framework scheme, which was called "400 cadres" when it was created to accompany the project of this community. We have extended it very recently, on an exceptional basis, to Mayotte, in order to take into account both the great weakness of the offers of post-baccalaureate training and the unprecedented demographic evolution that characterizes this territory, which we do not encounter in the other overseas. I am not in favour, at this stage, of extending this mechanism beyond New Caledonia and Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u340	Mr Philippe Dunoyer, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u341	I would like to speak briefly, since the discussion draws on my memories of this magnificent arrangement, which has been working very well for thirty years in New Caledonia. I hear Mrs Sanquer's arguments that situations differ from one ultramarine territory to another, but that is not the point of my colleague Nicole Sanquer: she wishes to learn from a scheme which, in thirty years, has been able to adapt to the institutional evolution of New Caledonia, but which shows above all that young people need special support there. To ensure that this amendment – to which I shall give modest support – does not remain a dead letter in the event that it is not adopted this afternoon, I hope, Madam Minister, that you will defend to your colleague the need to develop a broader strategy, at the level of the other territories, in order to create, when the opportunity arises, equivalent arrangements, in French Polynesia or in other overseas departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u342	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor to support Amendment No. 1217.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u343	The present draft finance bill ignores two major problems for overseas countries: femicides and violence against women, which are more numerous overseas than in Hexagon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u344	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u345	While 2.3 per cent of the inhabitants of the metropolis have been physically assaulted by their former spouse in the last 12 months, this figure is 17 per cent in French Polynesia and 19 per cent in New Caledonia. Similarly, in La Réunion, law enforcement officials intervened more than 6,000 times at home for acts of domestic violence in 2018; The Reunion ranks third among the departments with the most femicides, after Guyana and Corsica. Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa has set up a national fund to combat this violence, but we do not know what part of it will benefit overseas. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to create a fund specific to ultramarine territories to combat violence against women. With a budget of EUR 5 million, it would help women victims of domestic violence and their dependent children to continue their activities, to guarantee them housing, or to guide them in their administrative and judicial processes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u346	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u348	You are right, Mrs Ramassamy, when you say that there are more violence overseas than in Hexagon, and when they are perpetrated, they are more serious. The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men had launched a Grenelle against domestic violence. The group La République en marche has set up a team, which went overseas – in this case in Guadeloupe, where it organized a conference. We await the conclusions of the Grenelle, which will end on November 25, to notify. I particularly welcome the action of Raphaël Gérard, Stéphanie Atger and Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, who have transported on the spot. I have every confidence in their proposals to improve action in favour of the overseas countries and territories. In the meantime, I am issuing an opinion of wisdom, since the Committee on Finance has not voted on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u349	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u350	He's unfavorable. I would point out that Marlène Schiappa is currently in La Réunion to discuss the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u351	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u352	As Mr Serva, chairman of the overseas delegation, has just said, several colleagues and I have visited two ultramarine territories, Guadeloupe and Martinique, some fifteen days ago. Our working group presented yesterday a hundred proposals to Marlène Schiappa, as part of the Grenelle against domestic violence. It seemed essential to us to take into account the specificity – which you are referring to, Mrs Ramassamy – of the ultramarine territories and the answers they bring. It was also important to show that those territories were often places for initiatives. We have thus had the opportunity to bring back good and even very good practices applied, in particular to Martinique – I thank our colleague Josette Manin for referring us to the right interlocutors – where we have found that solutions that are both effective and capable of serving as a model for decline in other territories, including hexagonal ones, are being applied. So be assured that we are particularly vigilant about this follow-up and that we will ensure that concrete and effective responses, taking into account the specificities of each ultramarine territory and encouraging these initiatives, are provided by Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u353	Violence against women is a universal problem! They are not unique to the overseas territories!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u354	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u355	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups. – Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion, also applauds]] There are always many speeches about the amendments. As we look at the draft budget for the overseas countries and territories, we are informed that Mrs Schiappa is in La Réunion. She obviously chose her moment badly, since all the parliamentarians are present here: she should review her schedule!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u356	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u357	On the other hand, the answers given to us refer to future studies and future actions. Today, however, we will vote on the draft budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u358	And it is today that women die under the blows of their companion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u359	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u360	When Mrs Schiappa announced the creation of a national fund, we were not told to what extent the overseas countries would benefit from it. We ask that the resources be increased now. As battered women are more numerous in Reunion – or more generally in the overseas –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u361	They're everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u362	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] ... it is now that we have to vote for a budget that draws the consequences. We must stop announcing that we are going to carry out studies and then take action. We are talking here about equality between women and men, and we must act now! The number of women killed as a result of violence is increasing. It is therefore now that the question must be dealt with when considering this draft budget for the overseas countries and territories, and not in several months' time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u363	The majority do not want to act against violence against women!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u364	No doubt a battered woman overseas is not the same as a battered woman in Paris...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u365	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1472.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u366	The series of amendments that I am about to defend reflects several recommendations of the information report on territorial continuity in the overseas countries and territories. As you know, aid for territorial continuity consists of taking over part of the transport ticket for ultramarine residents wishing to go to Hexagon. Territorial continuity is a very strong principle, which contributes to the opening up of our territories. Article 1 of the Constitution of 4 October 1958 states: "France is an indivisible Republic". In French Polynesia, this scheme is available only to persons who have resided there for more than six months and are attached to a tax home with a family quotient of less than EUR 14108. The person entitled must wait four years for his fees to be charged. In 2018, 492 Polynesians benefited from territorial continuity assistance. The purpose of this amendment is to increase the appropriations allocated to this scheme, in order to increase the resources ceiling set for determining eligibility for this aid. Too many Polynesians are denied the benefit, while the price of airline tickets remains very high. In order to finance this increase in appropriations, we propose to reduce those in programme 138. It is not envisaged, however, to reduce the resources allocated to the financing of the overseas economy; It is simply a matter of complying with the requirements of the Organic Law on Finance Laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u367	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u368	Everything about territorial continuity is important. This issue is the subject of one of the only lines devoted to overseas by the President of the Republic in his electoral programme. By this amendment, which I have co-signed, you propose to affix the appropriations for this aid by EUR 3 million. I am very much in favour of this in my personal capacity, even if the committee has not given its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u369	So you will vote with us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u370	My colleague, the point of the parliamentary debate is precisely to discuss it. When I give a wisdom opinion, it is always possible for the minister to convince me, through her arguments, to change her position. It's all in the interest of active and mutual listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u371	As the pope said, "Don't be afraid!"
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u372	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u373	Several amendments on this subject, I intend to respond in detail to this amendment, which will allow me to deal more quickly with the following. I, too, am very committed to ensuring that ultramarine citizens maintain a strong link with Hexagon. This was the objective of setting up the system of aid for territorial continuity. This aid, whose objective is to reduce transport costs, can be simple or increased: it has two components. We must be able to ask ourselves about this state of affairs. I've heard your criticisms, which are well-founded. It is true, for example, that the ceilings have not been revised in nine years: they were set in 2010 and have since been maintained at the same level. It might therefore seem legitimate to reopen this case. I would also point out that in 2015 we moved from an annual fee to a three-year fee and approved a reduction in simple aid. On this occasion, we could have raised the issue of thresholds again. This does not mean, however, that we must not do so now. That is why I propose that you set up a working group on aid for territorial continuity, in order to study the ways in which we could raise the first threshold, and perhaps evacuate the question of simple aid. This would probably meet the needs of our Pacific citizens, offering them increased amounts of aid and thus more in line with the cost of the tickets they pay for. The truth is indeed simple: the price of a trip to French Polynesia is not comparable to that of a plane ticket to the West Indies – even if the latter remains expensive – and this aspect has not necessarily been taken into account enough. I therefore agree to reopen this question, but not in this way and not today. The opinion was unfavourable, but the Government was open to debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u374	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor to support Amendment No 399.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u375	It deals with the same question and, moreover, with an amount identical to that proposed by Mrs Sanquer's amendment. However, I would like to add a few words on this issue, which the minister has quite well summarized. This scheme, which dates back to 17 years – it was in fact created in 2002 – has evolved only twice, and very little in recent years, if any, as is the case, in particular, with regard to thresholds. But the cost of living in our territories has continued to evolve, and not in the right direction. These causes have a known effect: a steady reduction in the number of beneficiaries. A working group is a very interesting perspective, to which I fully subscribe. It is indeed useful and very important to review, index and weigh the scheme on the basis of both the transport costs of different territories and the actual purchasing power, rather than the average income level of these territories. In fact, when the cost of living is high, the income level is also slightly higher, but the purchasing power of the inhabitants of those territories is much lower, which limits for them the possibility of paying the price of a ticket – for New Caledonia, for example, it can reach between 1500 and 2000 euros. Given the existing ceilings, the aid, which covers, when applicable, half the price of the ticket, may allow its beneficiaries – if they could pay the other half, which is not in any case the case – to go to the metropolis, but they could do nothing about it, because they could not afford to stay, eat or move. This device starts to turn in circles and no longer works. I therefore agree with the call for an in-depth review of the mechanism, to which the minister has already responded.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u376	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u377	Minister, I welcome the creation of this working group, which you have just announced. The delegation to the overseas countries and territories, very sensitive to this announcement, will not fail to come close to you very quickly to form this group. For the same reasons as before, I am in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u378	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u379	In order to clarify the whole of the House, I would point out that the figure will be lower than that just mentioned. For French Polynesia, the take-over of the plane ticket represents 25% of the price, it is 41% for Guadeloupe and Martinique as well as for La Réunion, 35% for Mayotte and 38% for Guyana. We will therefore have to review this mechanism again in order to make it fairer and more equitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u380	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, in support of Amendment No. 1559.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u381	Minister, rapporteur, let me tell you how disappointed I am with your answers. The principle of territorial continuity has two objectives: the first is to ease the problems of national cohesion; the second is a corollary of the principle of indivisibility of the Republic. In fact, we often hear ourselves saying that it is not possible to leave the republican framework, precisely on the grounds that the Republic is one and indivisible. But it has never been one, because the Constitution has fully recognized its plurality. Nor is it indivisible – if we were to enshrine the principle of indivisibility, we would have to facilitate the movement of overseas residents between these territories and hexagonal France. This is a recurring request, which has been systematically on the table for several legislatures and to which we are systematically given the same answers. The last time we spoke about this, Mr President of the Overseas Delegation, was, I would remind you, following the presentation of the report by our colleagues Adam, Bassire, Michel and Sanquer, whose delegation took the time to stress the excellent quality. Contrary to what has been said in this House, the answer that our colleagues and the people of our territories have expected should not be deferred to the Greek calendia. We can certainly give ourselves time to set up a small working committee to fine-tune the details and see how the resources can be better distributed, but it is imperative, Madam Minister, that we give ourselves the capacity to affix this budget line favourably. I repeat: a working group, why not? But today we have to find the right answer. I have seen the result of the previous votes, but I will retain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u382	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u383	Mr Serville, you are disappointed with my arguments, but I am in favour of everything that concerns territorial continuity – as is the case with your amendment on territorial continuity within Guyana.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u384	What courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u385	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u386	Here again, national representation needs to be clarified. I myself was not aware of the specific nature of the Guyana scheme, which concerns internal air travel within that territory, and which is covered by a social assistance scheme set up by the French Guiana region and supported by the Ministry of Transport. State aid amounting to EUR 1.45 million is allocated to this specific scheme, which takes account of geographical factors and long distances, which, in this territory covered by 80% of the Amazon forest, can only be crossed by air. We can therefore see the strong involvement of the Ministry of Transport. I also discovered that the Overseas Ministry was adding an amount of 7,000 euros to this scheme! This figure is ridiculous; It would be better to abolish those appropriations. As for the addition of others, I prefer, on this and on some other points, to allow the ministries directly concerned to finance such exceptions – here, together with DGAC, the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation, for EUR 1.45 million. I have an unfavorable opinion on this amendment. We will work together on territorial continuity. As for the mobility passport, it will shortly be the subject of an amendment which I will defend. I did not understand very well what you were asking about the geographical area, but I was aware of this amendment and I will now propose to extend to the years to come the mobility passport experiment, which was only planned for one year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u387	I call Mr Philippe Dunoyer, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 410.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u388	It concerns another aspect of territorial continuity, about which we have already had discussions and on which I return untiringly, because it is the subject of a commitment, so far unfulfilled, made by the State in this forum in February 2017, during the debate on the EROM law – on real equality overseas – of which article 2, very short, provides: "The establishment and maintenance of continuous territorial links between the various components of the territory of the Republic is a sovereign issue [...]. Territorial continuity means the strengthening of cohesion between the various territories of the Republic, in particular the overseas territories, and the establishment or maintenance of an offer of continuous and regular transport within those territories and between those territories and hexagonal France. » My amendment concerns travel within certain territories. Guyana already enjoys a system of internal continuity corresponding to its realities: this is very good and I consider that this is not an exception, but rather a first step towards the fulfilment of this commitment made by the National Assembly, which should therefore apply to French Polynesia, New Caledonia and other territories. To be a little less subjective, I will refer to the example of French Polynesia, where Maina Sage recalled earlier that it takes three hours to get from one point to another. In New Caledonia, in the province of the Loyalty Islands, when travelling to the Great Earth for administrative, health or other reasons, a plane must be taken, which is not given, while the purchasing power in those islands is very low. Building on this commitment made by the State before the National Assembly to allow experiments now lasting – indeed, there is a system of internal continuity in Guyana – and although it seems clear that it is not today, in the context of the examination of the appropriations for this overseas mission, that I will obtain a favourable response, I would like the notion of internal continuity between the islands to be mentioned in the context of the reflection that will open up on the evolution of territorial continuity. I would also like to mention Wallis-et-Futuna, where the service between the two islands is also the subject of financial support from the State, which is very good. Guyana, Wallis-et-Futuna; I would like the list to be extended, because the financial difficulties and, consequently, the isolation and double confinement of these remote populations from the centres and capitals of our territories are increasingly difficult to live in.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u389	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u390	For the reasons mentioned above, he was in favour, even if the committee had not given its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u391	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u392	I must confess that I did not attend the debates of the EROM law – I was then busy elsewhere... However, I am told – and you need to know better than I do – that the commitment made for New Caledonia was to include the scheme in the convergence plan, so to negotiate it with the territory concerned. If this is confirmed, may we address the issue in the negotiations we have initiated on that convergence plan. However, honestly, except for the exceptions already created, opening up the scope of internal continuity beyond the commitments that could have been made in the Chamber would result in appropriations of which I can imagine the magnitude! It is therefore not today, in the context of the overseas budget alone, that this debate can be opened. I therefore take your amendment as an appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u393	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u394	Minister, you co-chaired the studies with the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u395	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u396	I have agreed, I repeat, to draw up this report at the end of many hearings. The relations between Languedoc-Roussillon and Paris or between Normandy and Alsace do not pose any problems: they are short circuits, with processes allowing French citizens to move from one department to another in the best possible conditions. But you make our particularity a very serious handicap. In this respect, I would like to compare the possibilities raised by Mr Dunoyer to the situation prevailing in the Atlantic and the Amazon. For what reasons do you not apply, in the name of equality and the constitutionality of rights, the same system between Martinique and Guadeloupe? For what reasons are we subject strictly to the market, which has increased the price of a ticket, in two or three years, from 80 to 250 euros? For what reasons do you allow Martinique and Guyanans to pay a plane ticket of 800 to 1000 euros, while it costs 400 euros to travel to Paris during the off-peak periods? This is really a problem of rights and fairness. We can't play this forever. You make us strangers to the cordiality of our geography and penalise us economically. Indeed, Martinique, Guadeloupe and Guyana represent a potential market of about 1 million people, making it possible to ensure the cohesion of this area. The handicap is not that you can't walk as you want by plane for 200 euros – and why not 50 euros, or even 10? No, the problem is not there: it is that a dynamic of cohesion is extinguished in the regions, in the transboundary sea basins.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u397	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u398	When I agreed to make this report, I thought everyone was clear about it, but I see that the link between the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Overseas Affairs was very artificial. I very much hope that we will resume these discussions and that, since the studies are already being carried out, my conclusions will be disseminated to all actors and translated into action. In view of the work already done, I do not think your proposal to set up a committee is appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u399	Mrs Guion-Firmin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1182 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u400	It also focuses on the important territorial continuity and aims specifically at Saint-Martin. As you know, in fact, for two years, the price of air tickets has literally exploded: while it previously cost 150 euros to go from Guadeloupe to Saint-Martin, we now pay 282 euros and even nearly 400 euros to go from Saint-Martin to Fort-de-France. The amendment therefore tends to raise the ceilings for eligibility for this aid for the Saint-Martinois.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u401	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u402	For the same reasons as at present, it is in favour, even if the committee has not given its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u403	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1474.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u404	This amendment is in the same spirit as that of my colleague Dunoyer. I would point out that the extension of aid to internal continuity is essential for the opening up of ultramarine territories. This State aid is already provided for in the last paragraph of Article L. 1803-4 of the Transport Code, which provides, in essence, that it may finance travel within a territory if there are particular difficulties of access to a part of it. You are aware that French Polynesia consists of 118 islands spread over 5.5 million square kilometres. In view of the difficulties of access, this data alone is sufficient to justify the need for aid to link all of our islands. This would improve land-use planning, prevent the exodus of people to the main island of Tahiti and ensure the economic development and unhinderedness of these islands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u405	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u406	Personally, I am against this amendment; the commission did not pronounce itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u407	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor to support Amendment No. 1473.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u408	It aims to grant additional resources to aid for territorial continuity in order to anticipate the granting of the aid in the form of a percentage of the transport ticket rather than a flat-rate amount. Madam Minister, you have announced that the amount of aid would be determined according to the territories and would therefore not vary according to the price of the ticket. This aid represents an average of 40% of the ticket price in the overseas departments. According to our calculations, this share is 10% for overseas communities, but you said the rate was 25%. In any case, it appears that the amount is so low that a simple aid cannot even cover the taxes on air tickets. In order to correct this inequality, the amendment proposes that aid for territorial continuity should be fixed as a share of the price of the transport ticket from the average price of the ticket over year n-1, so that it should be increased from a flat-rate amount to a percentage of the air ticket.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u409	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u410	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u411	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u412	He's unfavorable. As with the previous amendments, I refer to the establishment of a working group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u413	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u414	I note that the amendments tend to cite as an example the case of Guyana, where a system of internal continuity has been established. I would point out that this decision was taken because the amount allocated to ensure territorial continuity between Guyana and Hexagon was derisory, almost insignificant, and would not have allowed anything to be done. That is why we preferred to transform it into a much more efficient internal use. Having said that, I will allow myself to defend the amendment tabled by Mr Sanquer. Imagine 118 islands spread over 5.5 million square kilometres... So much so, with regard to certain amendments, Madam Minister, I understand your willingness to refer to the creation of a working group, as much as I would have really wanted – including on account of the amount mentioned, which can be described as a small sum – that this House would agree to hear the difficulties of this territory by giving a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u415	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u416	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u417	I see that the amendments are rejected one after the other,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u418	We get used to it, you'll see...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u419	...but I wouldn't want us to misunderstand each other. This is a real, legitimate question, and no one disputes it, but this succession of amendments highlights the incoherence of the present system, its obsolete character, since it generally ignores the objectives of territorial continuity, whether between the ultramarine territories and Hexagon or within the ocean basins – as in Polynesia – or a continent – as in Guyana. A period of reflection and work is necessary because if one adopted any of these amendments, these inequalities between the territories would be allowed to persist, which would not be the right answer. I fully agree with the minister's proposal to initiate a reflection on the subject. The EROM Act has set a framework. Under the DOM – the delegation to the overseas countries and territories – I drafted a report with my colleague Maina Sage showing that the implementation of certain aspects of this law, including territorial continuity, was difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u420	Every year, we say the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u421	It seems to me more important to put all our energy into the implementation of the measures laid down in the EROM law than to continue to do so, which would only result in the maintenance of the inequalities between the territories and the injustices that persist there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u422	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u423	I am pleased to hear from our colleague Raphaël Gérard about the concerns of the ultramarines on this very important issue of territorial continuity. I am rather sad, Madam Minister, but you seem sincere, especially since you yourself are ultramarine since you come from Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon. You know your difficulties. I would like to talk about one point: all the populations in the overseas countries and territories are experiencing the same tragedy with regard to territorial continuity. In this respect, I can tell you that I am a little jealous of Corsica, where a modus vivendi, a protocol, has been found. When's our place? You are certainly proposing a methodology, a framework, but it has been so long since our people were waiting! It is necessary to clarify quickly because between students, job seekers, sick people who must come to care for themselves in the metropolis, what suffering for all these populations! And you know very well that they are attached to the motherland: the Hexagon. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] Dear colleagues from the metropolis, you have heard Mrs. Guion-Firmin explain that after the tragedy caused by Hurricane Irma, the prices of airline tickets had doubled or even tripled! From Guadeloupe, the trip to Saint-Martin costs 280 euros; To Guyana, via Martinique, it costs 650 euros. While I belong to the majority, I remain vigilant and attentive to everything the Government is doing. That is why, Madam Minister, I wanted to alert you to this tragedy that we are living overseas and to convey to you the very high expectations of the people. We remain vigilant about the method you have just proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u424	Always contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u425	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor to support Amendment No. 1222.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u426	In view of the additional costs incurred by ultramarine athletes travelling for the purposes of their training and competitions, funds for territorial continuity should be increased to support the exchange fund for educational, cultural and sporting purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u427	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u428	It's a legitimate request. If we go into detail last year, 1.3 million euros were consumed, and this year 2.4 million euros were consumed. Let's eat first, then we'll notify. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u429	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u430	As I said earlier, I am very sensitive to the issue of FEBECS. I must also acknowledge that this mechanism may not be sufficiently well known since, for the time being, no prefecture has made any request for additional resources concerning it when I said that, by the end of the year, I could think about an increase in its envelope. I would also like to recall that it had already been doubled: in 2017 it stood at 900000 euros and now reached 2 million. However, the sum has not been fully consumed. We all hope that the EBECS instrument will be useful to all young people. I therefore propose that you send a note to each prefect requesting that advertising be made to all associations – cultural, sports, youth and education – to promote this fund in all territories. We need to talk more about this before we increase the amount so strongly, because the amount requested is significant compared to what has already been consumed. The opinion is therefore unfavourable, but I remain very vigilant on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u431	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u432	Earlier, a colleague said that he was surprised by the number of amendments on this issue. Minister, I had prepared a report on territorial continuity within the framework of the National Air Transport Facilities, which had been held in the presence of Elizabeth Borne, then Minister of Transport, and yourself. If we order a report, at this level of responsibility, then we must not make fun of it! The solution you propose to meet all requests is simply to schedule a technical meeting. Yet the problem raised is legitimate. However, you have not yet accepted a single amendment, I would like to tell you, as well as those colleagues who systematically vote against it by show of hands following your unfavourable opinion. The spirit of openness of the Republic also sometimes consists in accepting measures that should seem obvious! You talked about FEBECS that is not consumed because the work has not yet been done. But the territorial continuity of education, culture and sport is essential! Children from La Réunion, Guadeloupe or Martinique may be future Thierry Henry or future great musicians who could travel around the world. I find it inhuman – and I weigh my words – to reject this amendment. Territorial continuity concerns children, young people and athletes. We are blocked only because we are far away. Then tell us clearly what we can do, and whether the Republic is solidary or not, open or not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u433	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u434	Since you feel that the amount requested is too high, I invite you to make a sub-amendment; You have the power. For example, you can propose an amount of EUR 150000 rather than 300 000, but I do not see how a parliamentarian could vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u435	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u436	Let us avoid the trial of intent; I don't worry about it, so thank you for not bothering me either, Mr Letchimy. With regard to FEBECS, I have already replied, and Ericka Bareigts has also spoken about it. FEBECS is not a new device. At the time I was working in a state service, I was managing it – its amount was much higher, and then it fell and we raised it. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] I'd like to pay more money to the FEBECS, but what to do with it since all this money is not consumed? Should we both be hypocrites? Should I therefore agree to increase the FEBECS by 300,000 euros, which would ultimately not be consumed and which I should therefore return to Bercy? At some point, you have to be honest! This mechanism, which has been in existence for a long time, is being promoted in all the State departments concerned, but probably not enough on the ground with the associations. Our approach is to improve this situation, I tell you. I am sincerely sorry that the envelopes are not fully consumed. If I were convinced to the contrary, I would agree to increase the FEBECS, because for me youth is a priority because it is the wealth of the overseas territories. So I won't accept a trial on this! You say that you have worked on a report – which is true – regretting that it has no effect – that is your point of view. If I gave an unfavorable opinion earlier on the amendments relating to territorial continuity, it is because, if we go to the end of this reasoning, we do not discuss more than EUR 500 000 but several million or more. I cannot therefore say yes to an amendment aimed at providing 500,000 euros of aid for internal continuity for our archipelagos or for Guyana – a very large territory – because it is totally unrealistic: with 500,000 euros, we do nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u437	With zero, we're doing even less!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u438	As Polynesia is an archipelago, I have not been able, when I visited it, to travel all of its territory – even though I have visited a large part of it – but I know the difficulties it faces, such as all the overseas territories. We can therefore have a real debate on the subject, but you will understand that I do not accept amendments which will ultimately be of no use. That said, if you all want to, we can increase the envelope allocated to the FEBECS; We will see in June this year that this was not the most useful choice. Now, I insist, we must be effective in our choices!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u439	Yes, of course, we don't say otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u440	Mrs Ericka Bareigts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u441	We will see in June, you said, Madam Minister, that an abundance of EBECS would not be the most useful measure. The position we stand for is an upsurge: associations and schools all tell us that in order to send children or young people to Madagascar, Mauritius, Paris or elsewhere, as part of a particular project, it is the cross and the banner. You have to organize events, dance dinners or I don't know anything else, to have two under fifty before you. In Saint-Denis de La Réunion, we have established a travel grant. So it's the community that pays! And when people are asked if they have thought of speaking to the DJSCS – the direction of youth, sports and social cohesion – they discover, astonished at all, the existence. Not making the devices known is a real method: we avoid spending, and the trick is played! Given the echoes we have had, the measure we are talking about will be a real success, provided that we are prepared to spend the corresponding money. This measure must therefore be made known, and it is not only the prefectures that must take care of it, but also the rectorates and the actors of the city's politics: everyone must mobilize to overcome the considerable inequality suffered by the children of our territories. I know the difficulties of connectivity. But the fund exists: it is a tool that we must make maximum use of. One of the greatest inequalities, in fact, is that which separates a child to whom one can travel and discover the world from an early age, and another who is never given the opportunity. This great, genuine inequality makes all the difference.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u442	I will not accept the other requests for the floor before me, ladies and gentlemen; The debates are really not moving forward quickly, and everyone has been able to speak on the substantive subject of territorial continuity. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u443	I call Mr Olivier Serva to support Amendment No. 1625.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u444	With this amendment, the transition is all found. I am not going back to the problem of engineering, which has been mentioned many times. I understand, Madam Minister, that you are not prepared to increase the appropriations now, but I have two impressions, of which you will tell me if they are wrong: the first is that you are ready, once the appropriations are assessed, to reconsider the situation if necessary; The second is that, in view of Mr Lorion's proposal and yours with regard to the working group on territorial continuity, we should create another one to look at ways and means of better consuming the appropriations allocated to engineering in the overseas regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u445	A working group to bury the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u446	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u447	I have asked the DGOM, as well as all the prefectures, to draw up an inventory of all the projects which, having received commitment authorisations, have not yet called for the corresponding payment appropriations. The total of these uncalled credits, I told you the other day, amounts to EUR 1.6 billion. I want full transparency on this point with you by June this year; We will then be able to get a clearer picture of the problems and the answers to them. Engineering and support, as has been said, are a first step; There may be comments on other issues as well: land, for example, and the share of communities that find themselves unable to support a project, even if they had initially agreed to it. In short, there is indeed a lot of work to be done, both on continuity and on other subjects. Be aware that I am on your side, on the side of the solutions, of which I know that they can be found in the ministry, but also and especially in the territories. For all these reasons, I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u448	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u449	I'd like to take the minister at the word, if you'll give me the phrase. I say this before the national representative, the SIEAM, the Mayotte Intermunicipal Water and Sanitation Union, made a call for appropriations of EUR 12 million, on the basis of expenditure incurred in accordance with the authorisations, to carry out certain works; However, for several months this request has been blocked by the State. Actually, we're still suffocating SIEAM. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will be able to announce to me, in the coming days, that the order necessary for the payment of these appropriations has been made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u450	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 1671.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u451	It aims to increase the appropriations allocated to a measure decided under the Programming Law on Real Equality Overseas, in this case the aid paid to families for the return of a deceased person's body. It happens that a loved one, a child or a parent, goes to be treated in Hexagon and dies there. In these painful situations, no one takes care of the return, except, if necessary, insurance. In other words, people either have what is needed and do not ask for anything, either they have no protection and must ensure the return of the body at their expense, or an expense that can go, for a journey from Paris to La Réunion, from 10,000 to 15,000 euros. The measure, therefore, must help those concerned in these painful moments, fortunately quite rare. However, according to the order of 1 March 2018 that you took to apply it, Madam Minister, only households whose family quotient does not exceed 6000 euros are eligible for it. We believe, like other colleagues who have tabled another amendment on this subject, that this ceiling is so low that it prevents the full implementation of the measure for the public to whom we wanted to address it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u452	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u453	I fully agree with your analysis, Mrs. Bareigts. However, I suggest that you withdraw your amendment for reasons that you will understand very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u454	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u455	I want to provide some answers. I agree, Mrs Bareigts, there is a real question about funeral continuity. The choice has been made, under the law on real equality overseas, to apply the same criteria in this field as for territorial continuity, so that the same questions arise in relation to income: one turns into a loop. For the funeral return aid, only 30 files were registered in 2018, of which only four were eligible: for two of them, the aid was paid in 2018; for the other two, it will be in 2019. In 2019, sixty-three cases have been registered to date, including thirteen eligible cases, for which payment has already been made. I therefore need to identify more precisely the problems that arise and to consider ways of remedying them. To be interesting, Mrs Bareigts, your amendment sets amounts that are far too high in relation to actual needs, even if the criteria and scope are changed. That is why the opinion is unfavourable, even if I agree on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u456	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u457	Thank you for your attention, Minister, on this important subject, which we also discussed in delegation to the overseas countries and territories. Mrs Sanquer and I have tabled another amendment, which will be discussed just after it, to propose a slightly lower amount. The problem here is not quite the same as before, since we are being imposed, through a decree, on a family quotient capped at 6000 euros a year – I say 6000 euros a year! It is therefore almost impossible for households to enter the boxes. [[Smile]] The problem, the whole shade is there, is that everything has been done here to make the device inoperative. For territorial continuity, it should be recalled, the ceiling is 26000 euros per year; It is also the ceiling applicable to the mobility study passport as to the other three mobility passports. When I see a ceiling of 6000 euros for the family quotient, I think we may have forgotten a 2! I'm kidding, but the subject is serious. And you have the means, Madam Minister, to amend the order tomorrow. I'm asking you on behalf of all the families involved. Many of us here are aware of such situations. When such tragedies occur, things are really very difficult. When I tell the interested parties that the income must be less than 6000 euros per year...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u458	Not the income, the family quotient!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u459	Of course, and perhaps you should give us some clarification on this point, but that is how the measure is understood: conditional on a family income ceiling of 6000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u460	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u461	In addition to the appropriations allocated, this amendment makes it possible, as the following amendment follows, to abound the overall budget line devoted to territorial continuity, to the benefit of other arrangements relating to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u462	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u463	In any event, a new order will be necessary anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u464	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u465	I said that, if I did not share the amounts proposed, I agreed with the amendment on the substance. In other words, I will give a wise opinion on the other amendments on this subject. Don't panic, then.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u466	Amendment No 1476 by Mrs Nicole Sanquer is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u467	I call Mr Olivier Serva to support Amendment No. 1624.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u468	I feel the sensitive minister, quite rightly, on the subject we are talking about. However, I would like to add two arguments to those previously put forward by our colleagues. Unlike the living, the deceased can no longer wait for a working group to be set up. It is therefore immediately, Madam Minister, that we need an answer. [[Exclaims and smiles on various benches]] On the other hand, it has not been said, but, for the moment, the legislation, as I recall in my summary statement, opens the aid for funeral transport only to people residing overseas and dead in Hexagon – and when one lives overseas, most often, one dies there too. Therefore, the device must also be open to ultramarines who have been living in Hexagon for a number of years. I therefore appeal to your heart, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u469	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u470	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u471	In the current state of affairs, aid for the transport of goods only concerns repatriations to the usual place of residence – we could discuss this condition. In addition, funeral aid is granted only when the filiation bond with the deceased is of the first degree. Do we wish to maintain this principle, which excludes grandparents, brothers and sisters in particular? We will have to ask ourselves the question – in any case, I want to open this debate. Similarly, while the current scheme reimburses some of the costs incurred, we should find a way to pre-finance the expenses, because not everyone can advance the costs of transportation. As you can see, we have several questions, and we will not answer them here. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] Mr Serva, you are proposing to increase the amount allocated to this budget line. At the same time, we will have to work quickly to change the conditions of the aid, because it would be counterproductive to increase the amount of aid without changing the terms of the aid. I therefore express a favourable opinion, and I propose that we open the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u472	You have to applause him!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u473	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u474	I congratulate you, Madam Minister. Be aware that we are experiencing a daily tragedy: given the situation of hospitals overseas, health movements to the metropolis are increasing. I congratulate our colleague Olivier Serva on his accepted amendment, but I think it would be fairer and more respectful to associate Mrs Nicole Sanquer and Mrs Ericka Bareigts, who have made similar proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u475	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u476	It is therefore a collective amendment which will allow us to look more respectfully at the Republic and its solidarity tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u477	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u478	There was a time when these proposals would have been the subject of a joint discussion, which would have facilitated the work – my point also applies to other subjects. The debate has made us move and come from one question to another; It was not easy to follow, even for those who look at us. It was my intention to quote the four texts dealing with the subject under discussion, namely Amendments Nos 1671, 1476, 1624 and 1672.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u479	Amendment No 1672 by Mrs Ericka Bareigts is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u480	Mrs Guion-Firmin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1490.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u481	It aims to transfer EUR 1 million from Action 04 of the "Overseas Living Conditions" programme to the creation of a fund for the prevention and information of early pregnancy and sexuality for young people in ultramarine territories. According to an annual publication of the statistical service of the social ministries, the rate of recourse to abortions – voluntary terminations of pregnancy – was 15.4 per 1,000 women in France in 2018. It varies widely between regions. In addition, it is the highest in the country: in Guyana and Guadeloupe, for example, it reaches 35 per 1,000 women. The abortions practised in the four historical overseas departments account for 6.3 per cent of the total recorded in France, for 2.8 per cent of the national population and 3.8 per cent of births. These data are intended to be refined, including those of the department of Mayotte and the three overseas communities under national social law. In view of these figures, it seems necessary to develop information on sexuality and early pregnancy in the overseas territories. That is the purpose of the fund we are proposing to create.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u482	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u483	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u484	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u485	This amendment deals with an extremely serious and worrying subject in the overseas regions. However, is it reasonable to punctuate by EUR 1 million an action whose appropriations are already falling by 70%, namely the action "Sanitary, social, cultural, youth and sports", which we discussed at length earlier? I do not believe that, and am therefore against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u486	Mrs Guion-Firmin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1493.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u487	It aims to create a fund for emergency response to the invasion of sargasse algae. I propose to provide it with EUR 1 million, taken from the appropriations of the "Exceptional Investment Fund" action of the "Overseas Living Conditions" programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u488	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u489	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u490	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u491	Guadeloupe and Martinique are particularly affected by sargasses, as you know from other territories. Guadeloupe recently hosted a very beautiful international conference – not to say a mini-summit – chaired by the Prime Minister, during which technical and financial announcements were made. These initiatives will come into being in the coming months, and we must let them express their full extent. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u492	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u493	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u494	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u495	Madam Minister, I expected you to give an unfavorable opinion, like the Special Rapporteur. I would remind him that the delegation to the overseas countries and territories has had rich discussions with business leaders and officials from the overseas countries and territories on sargasses, which also touch on Guyana from time to time. However, I have expressed the wish that the problem should be taken up by the State. The already expansive finances of the overseas communities do not allow them to bear this additional expenditure. Our nation prides itself on being the world's second-largest exclusive economic zone, but sargasses do not originate in the overseas territories but on the high seas, and then fail on our shores. Although I have already expressed my views before the Overseas Delegation, I take this amendment as an opportunity to ask the Minister to speak to the Government and to plead that the finances of our communities be relieved. The State cannot simply support them financially, but must take full responsibility for the collection and treatment of sargasses.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u496	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u497	Mr. Gabriel Serva referred to the international conference on sargasses held in Guadeloupe, which the Prime Minister himself concluded, in the presence of Ms. Frédérique Vidal, Ms. Élisabeth Borne and myself, thus demonstrating the Government's commitment in this area. The State is a major contributor to the €12 million community equipment plan. Frédérique Vidal also announced that budgets are earmarked for sargasse research – because this is one of the missions we have to fulfill alongside the communities. The re-use and transformation of sargasses was also discussed. In addition, there is the possibility of entering into pool-based partnerships as well as European aid which can be allocated under the INTERREG regional cooperation programme or other Community funds. A dynamic is launched in Guadeloupe and Martinique. Guyana, Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy also participated. The state takes all its part in this dynamic, alongside the communities, and no one questions this logic of common intervention. Let's take an example: in 2012, I believe, he financed the purchase of sargasse collection equipment, and for a year or two, the shores were not infested; However, this equipment was not owned by anyone, it was not maintained by anyone and was completely lost. I therefore believe that it is necessary to involve all partners on the ground – communities, companies, associations – and that the State is strongly committed to them. This commitment is real for all actions, alongside the communities that take their full share of responsibility – and I want to thank them for doing so, as they do so with the means that are theirs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u498	Amendment No 1677 by Mrs Ericka Bareigts is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u499	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 865 and 544. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 865.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u500	It is in the same spirit as the amendment proposed at the moment by Mrs Ericka Bareigts. We cannot be content with a counter economy in the ultramarine territories, important largely from the metropolis but having few imports and exports with our geographical environment. We must integrate into our environment, thanks to our strengths in training, knowledge and engineering. The Committee on Finance has adopted Mr Mathiasin's amendment – it is the only one she has retained – which is certainly symbolic, since it covers "only" 100 000 euros, but which has the merit of setting a course: the integration of the overseas territories into their regional environment. We must express ourselves economically, culturally and sportfully with the Caribbean countries and those of the other oceans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u501	I call Mr Max Mathiasin to support Amendment No. 544.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u502	Madam Minister, I will not need to appeal to your heart, as the Special Rapporteur did. I would just like to point out that this amendment is the same as the one adopted by the Committee on Finance, which has just been presented by our Special Rapporteur. As the reason for the sentiments here is, I have no doubt that you will give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u503	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u504	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u505	The Government does have the ambition to support the integration of the Overseas Territories into their maritime basin, and therefore to engage in regional cooperation. The corresponding action being weakly endowed, and since it is to reason rather than to the heart that you call it, I rely on the wisdom of your congregation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u506	But you will vote with passion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u507	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u508	I'm almost ashamed, yes, almost ashamed. We are talking about the integration of the overseas territories into their geographical environment. But everyone knows their specificities and the difficulties of moving from one basin to another, and even within each territory. We would like to believe that we are giving a course by giving an additional 100,000 euros to a subject of such importance? I can't really see this course! On the bottom, I can only abound in your sense; For me, the dynamic of promoting the integration of our territories into their respective basins is a matter of common sense. But I'm ashamed that we only spend 100,000 euros on a subject of this nature!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u509	That's 880,000 euros in total!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u510	Mr Serge Letchimy has the floor for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u511	Mr President, I do not have to speak briefly; I'm speaking on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u512	[[Smile]] For a brief intervention, if you will.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u513	[[Smile]] Madam Minister, I expected you to introduce a sub-amendment to draw Mr Max Mathiasin's proposal up. The subject is too serious. I am convinced that the only area of economic, cultural and social emancipation that is truly viable for overseas departments is integrated territorial diplomacy. We must work together and work together with Brazil, Cuba, Santo Domingo, Venezuela and the United States to find growth and development niches. I don't want to be hurtful, but it's really derisory to spend 100,000 euros on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u514	Yes, it's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u515	I call Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u516	I hope you have understood the symbolic aspect of the matter. In the area of cooperation, the region has prerogatives, powers conferred on it by the State; It does not replace the State. With this amendment, I just wanted to show a will.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u517	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u518	[[Mr Serge Letchimy protested]] The amount involved is in the order of EUR 880000. This may seem insufficient, given our ambitions, but these appropriations are consumed at 75%, only for operating expenses. Let's get on with projects, and we'll go a lot further. The amendment proposes a transfer of EUR 100 000, an increase of about 10%. It's a first step. I agree, but that's not even the point. The subject is that there is no real ambition without plans. I have evaluated each expenditure: there are far too many operating costs and not enough concrete projects. This situation is probably also due to the INTERREG appropriations, the fact that the regions contribute in their cooperation. Anyway, when we have to go further, I won't even talk.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u519	The President of the National Assembly has received a letter from the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament informing him that the examination of the appropriations of the Overseas Mission will continue this evening at twenty-one hours thirty, before the examination of the appropriations of the Mission "Work and Employment". The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-11-06-O1057.u520	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the second part of the Finance Bill for 2020: Further examination of the overseas mission's appropriations; Review of the appropriations for the "Work and Employment" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
