ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the introduction of a digital services tax and modification of the downward trend in corporate tax (No. 1975, No. 2080).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u2	Mr Joël Giraud, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u3	We are asked to comment on the text proposed by the Joint Joint Committee – CMP – which met on 26 June on the draft law on the creation of a digital services tax and the modification of the downward trajectory of corporate tax. I would remind you that the bill originally had two clauses. The first created a digital services tax, the TSN, improperly called the "GAFA tax" – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon. The second modified the corporate tax rate, the SI, for large companies in 2019. At first reading, our assembly added two articles providing for the submission of reports, Article 1e r bis on the taxation of e-commerce and physical commerce, and Article 3 on the impact of the TSN. We had also made significant improvements to Article 1 of the TSN to clarify its scope, secure its base and recovery, or to strengthen control and affirm the provisional nature of the tax. The Senate introduced a new Article 1e r bis A providing for the submission of a report on the reasons for failure to notify the European Commission of the fee. He made several changes to the TSN without questioning the heart of the device. Finally, it adopted Article 1a and, above all, Article 2 on the IS rate without amendment. This consistent adoption is probably the element that led to the success of the CMP last week, since, on the TSN, the general economy of the scheme was accepted by both Assemblies. The CMP has resulted in a balanced compromise, retaining the amendments made by the Assembly and the majority of those introduced in the Senate, and providing for several improvements proposed by Alberic de Montgolfier, rapporteur of the text in the Senate, and myself. I also welcome the excellent work done jointly with Alberic de Montgolfier, which enabled the CMP to achieve a successful outcome. What is the content of the text that is submitted to you? In Article 1, the CMP went back to two exclusions from the scope of the TSN that had been introduced by the Senate: subscription services; computerised reservation systems, CRSs, on the other hand. These exclusions from the "intermediation" component of the base could lead to an unconstitutional breakdown of equality. I would point out, for all useful purposes, that the CRSs that allow interaction between companies and agents are indeed intermediation services, and that Bercy is working on a rescript to remove the fears fed by some of you. The CMP also did not accept the imputation of the TSN on the social solidarity contribution of companies – C3S – introduced by the Senate, given the significant risk of qualification as State aid. Similarly, the temporal limitation of the tax provided for in the Senate does not appear in the text of the CMP, in order not to weaken the French position in the ongoing negotiations or to compromise their dynamism. However, we all agree on the necessary provisional vocation of the TSN, reaffirmed more firmly by the CMP in its text. The CMP considered it useful to clarify the modalities for locating services, without referring to a decree in the Council of State. She dedicated the use of the IP address or any relevant means, as provided for in the proposed directive, and stressed the protection of personal data – a concern shared by all and pointed out by the rapporteur of the text in the Senate. Finally, in addition to some editorial clarifications and shell corrections, the CMP has usefully clarified the scheme on three points: the exclusion of advertising services from the "intermediation" base; the issue of activities related to taxable services such as logistics – the new wording, more precise, reproduces the terms used by the Court of Justice of the European Union, in the interests of clarity of the standard and consistency of the tax – Finally, the recognition of the refund of companies that would have paid TSN's advance payment in 2019 without finally being subject to tax. With regard to the other two articles under discussion, the CMP proposed an adoption in the Senate version. I should like to add a word on Article 1a A on the grounds for not notifying the European Commission of the tax: it does not seem to me that the TSN is selective, which is corroborated by a recent decision of the European Court of Justice; However, it was useful for the Government to set out in detail the legal elements supporting its position. In conclusion, the text of the CMP seems to me to be a good compromise in that, while retaining the essence of the mechanism and the improvements that the National Assembly and the Senate have made, it provides for useful enrichment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this text and thus fully devote our country's ambition to modernising tax rules and strengthening tax justice, subjects on which France is at the forefront and which, I know, transcend all divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u5	The length of parliamentary procedures is often criticized. More reason to rejoice when we are all able, together, to decide quickly on matters of general interest, such as the taxation of digital giants, the subject of the text we are looking at today. I welcome the sense of responsibility that Members and senators have shown on this text. Responsibility, first, for our public finances, since they voted in favour of the shift in the downward trajectory of corporate tax for companies with a turnover of more than EUR 250 million. Let us remember: this choice does not change our determination to pursue a policy of supply, nor to maintain our objective – which I confirm – to achieve, for all companies without exception, a corporate tax rate of 25% by the end of the quinquennium in 2022. I confirm to companies whose turnover exceeds EUR 250 million that their IS rate will fall well as of 2020, to a level that I will specify in a few days. For other companies, the rate will be reduced from 31 % to 28 %, and the reduced rate of 15 % will of course be maintained for smaller companies. Therefore, all our commitments will be preserved, including, I repeat, that of achieving an IS rate of 25% for all French companies by 2022. It's a question of credibility. It is also a question of the attractiveness of French territory. It has become, I would remind you, Europe's most attractive for foreign investment. Responsibility, too, to restore tax justice in the face of digital giants. As you know, I have been fighting for two years at the European level, at the G7 and G20 levels, as well as at the OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Last week, together with the President of the Republic, we took another step forward, as the G20 Heads of State agreed to endorse the conclusions on digital taxation handed over to them by the finance ministers. The proposal that we are considering today has given rise to much debate: on the scope of the tax, on its limitation in time or on its legal soundness. These useful exchanges have enabled France to improve its proposal and to be a leader in digital taxation on a solid, credible and convincing basis. I welcome the work of the rapporteurs, who have been able to find a balanced solution, moreover solid. Without prejudice to the legal soundness of our national machinery, honourable senators have debated this issue at length. In accordance with the wishes of the High Assembly, we will submit a report on the conformity of our tax with European law. For my part, I have never doubted the legal soundness of our system, but I think this report can be useful. I simply recall that at the national level, the Council of State has validated the bill. At European level, the proposed tax is largely based on the work carried out over two years by the European Commission's tax specialists. It is a political choice: the national tax has the same scope, the same rate and thresholds comparable to those proposed in the proposal for a European directive. We have only chosen, for the sake of consistency, to restrict the application of these thresholds to digital turnover alone. Therefore, the thresholds for coverage will be EUR 750 million in digital revenue worldwide and EUR 25 million in digital revenue at national level. Some, as I know, feel that these legal guarantees are still insufficient. I therefore propose a new one: I hope that, once voted, the text will be submitted and validated by the Constitutional Council. This will strengthen our system, strengthen our national tax on digital giants, and strengthen our political position in the G7, G20 and OECD for this fight on the taxation of digital activities. You have also provided a balance solution for bounding over time. During all the discussions, I insisted on the absolute need not to limit the validity of the tax that we are creating to three years. It would have been a unilateral disarmament decision: by announcing in advance that the tax would only have three years of existence, we would have deprived ourselves of an indispensable negotiating lever in our discussions in the G7, the G20 or the OECD. Our opponents would have used this weakness to slow down international negotiations and prevent us from achieving our goal of reaching a consensus within the ODC by 2020 on the taxation of digital activities. I know that there are still concerns about the temporary aspect of the scheme. I have been saying this for months: our national tax is necessary to give the movement and inspire other states. As soon as we have an equivalent solution within the framework of the OECD, we will withdraw our national tax. We will submit an annual report outlining the status of the international negotiations and the prospects for abolishing the national tax. I recall that our hope is to reach an agreement within the OECD by 2020, with a view to introducing international taxation in 2020. The coming weeks will be decisive in achieving these goals. We are moving forward at a good pace in international negotiations. At European Union level, twenty-four out of twenty-eight States are now convinced. Some have also introduced national taxation, such as France. OECD experts and tax experts are working on the best technical solution to create this new international tax system. This solution is not intended simply to allow us to tax digital services: it tends to build the taxation of the 21st century, which will make it possible to tax all activities related to digital – not only digital companies, which create value solely from data, their resale or their collection, but also all companies that use digital for the marketing of their products and make it an instrument of value creation. The key to the 21st century is how to tax this digital activity, which creates value, in a fair and effective way. It is with this aim in mind that the OECD must intervene within a few months. In the G20, the President of the Republic and I continued to convince our partners and agreed on a programme of work for the coming months. The next few weeks will be decisive. At the end of July, at the G7 Finance Ministers in Chantilly, we will move forward on a better definition of the criteria for a new international taxation, as well as on the question of the minimum taxation of large multinationals, in order to combat tax evasion. We will present these solutions, defined by the finance ministers, at the G7 Summit of Heads of State in Biarritz in August. Thus, we are about to convince the world's most powerful countries – whether they are members of the G7, the G20 or the European Union – of the need to move forward in this direction. Before concluding this speech, I would like to recall the issue of digital taxation. It's double. The first is to build the taxation of the 21st century. We cannot, given the value created by personal data and the digital economy, maintain taxation based solely on the production of manufactured products. It is incoherent, ineffective and deeply unjust. We want to build the taxation of the 21st century, which must be fairer and take into account the considerable value created by the use and marketing of personal data. The taxation of the twenty-first century must also be more effective. I firmly refuse any tax evasion. As Minister of Economy and Finance, I cannot accept that large multinationals make profits in France and relocate them to tax havens to escape tax. The solution is minimum taxation, so that these profits are not taxed at 2%, 4% or 6%, even though they should be taxed at the corporate tax rate in France. We'll work on it. I am confident that, by mid-July, an agreement will be reached within the G7 on the principles that should govern it, including the introduction of a range of tax rates. Then, within a few months, we will define these rates, in order to introduce by 2020 a minimum tax on large multinationals. I would point out that our American partners have already introduced one, at a rate of just over 13%. What the United States is capable of doing, the other G7 countries and the European Union should also be able to do so, in the interests of fiscal efficiency and in the fight against tax evasion, which rightly revolts our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u6	Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u7	The second challenge of digital taxation is to regulate the giants of the sector, which are becoming as powerful as sovereign states. However, States are governed by the general interest; large digital companies are driven by private interests. The private interest cannot, and must not, outweigh the general interest. The taxation of digital services is one of the answers – it is not the only one – that we want to bring about with regard to the indispensable regulation of digital giants, who are sometimes monopolistic and gradually equip themselves with all the attributes of a sovereign state. Thus, their market capitalization, which in some cases exceeds $1000 billion, is greater than the national wealth of most of the world's states. They control personal data, which allows them to guide each person's consumption choices, or even the political choices of some – we have seen this recently. Finally, they have plans to introduce a currency, libra. It can be an instrument of exchange, but it must not under any circumstances become the equivalent of a sovereign currency. The stakes are the freedom of every citizen. We must ensure that it is not threatened, framed or transformed by digital giants with ever-increasing powers. The role of States, which obey the general interest and defend the freedom of everyone, is to gradually define the indispensable regulation of digital giants, in order to avoid their competition with their sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The adoption of the general regulation on the protection of personal data – GDPR – and the work we are doing to respond to the Cloud Act – it is a matter of developing a sovereign Cloud Act that will allow us to store the most strategic data – the proposals for the regulation of libra currency, on which we are working in the framework of the G7, and the taxation of the digital services that you are about to introduce, ladies and gentlemen, all this constitutes a set of answers that will allow us, as we move forward, to preserve the framework of freedom to which we are all deeply attached here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u8	Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u9	The reception reserved for the text on the benches of the opposition, at least among the group The Republicans, on the whole, have been kind, even though this text is a little late. We proposed solutions two years ago similar to those you are advocating today, minister, but no one is a prophet in his country, and things end up happening! The CMP has reached an agreement, and I am pleased with it. However, the text inspires me, at the end of its examination, a mixed feeling, that is, both satisfaction and regret. The reason for my satisfaction is that a solution has been found with regard to digital taxation and the taxation of the famous GAFAs. I have taken note, Mr Minister, that you wish to consolidate this solution in legal terms by submitting the text to the Constitutional Council. You are right: in front of the French state are very important powers, which you yourself have described and which seem to be able to pay some lawyer's fees – that is at least the impression I have! It is therefore good to secure the mechanism legally. This solution is, of course, provisional. You have put it in context, which we understand. We hope that solutions will soon be more sustainable, on a global scale. The debate is about the principles of taxation, but also, beyond that, about the role of the companies that are called, in short, GAFAs and, fundamentally, about the evolution of our tax system – what you call the 21st century taxation. GAFAs are a major concern for the citizens we are all. They no doubt offer great tools for our daily life, but they are very, or can be, frighteningly offensive to our freedoms. It is clear that these companies have almost all the attributes of micro-states: the financial power – superior to that of many states – the ability to collect data and information about citizens and, now, the ability to create a currency – not the bitcoin, which is little or no speculative financial instrument, but much more, namely an instrument that looks strangely like a currency or could acquire most of its attributes. All this is terribly disturbing. I believe that the G7 states should address this issue at the end of the month's Finance Ministers' meeting in Chantilly – this will probably be the case in this very inspiring world, with historical landscapes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u10	Chosen for purpose!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u11	[[Smile]] This is an excellent choice, which I wholeheartedly approve! GAFAs should be subject – like other large companies that have historically exceeded the framework of what a company should be in terms of defending private interests – to a separation of their activities, regardless of the name given to it – "disbandment" is more general. The international community must ask itself these questions. This text goes in this direction, but we can't just gine solutions over time – one day on personal data, the next day on money. We need to go further. As far as the taxation of the 21st century is concerned, introducing a minimum tax seems to me a good idea. However, what is taxed? Consumption? I wrote to you about this, Minister. I expect impact assessments from the Government – we are waiting in Parliament. We need to know where we're going in this area, based on scenarios. If taxation changes considerably, to the point of changing the concept of the tax base and the way in which taxes are based, we must be able to predict the consequences for the state. I mean, I'm sorry. One subject went under radar, even under that of the Senate, since it adopted the proposed measure on the subject, which was therefore not considered in CMP: corporation tax. Minister, you have decided to increase the IS – I know that you are presenting it differently, but that is what this is all about. You decided to reduce it, including for companies with a turnover of more than 250 million euros. But you are restoring the rate that applies to them. This is therefore an increase in taxation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u12	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u13	...which is not at all a good idea, in my opinion, in the context we know.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u14	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would point out that the amounts paid in respect of IS by companies with a turnover of more than EUR 250 million represent 70% to 80% of the proceeds of this tax. This is a claw to the competitiveness of companies, which you claim to support. In this regard, Mr. Minister, you are therefore very contradictory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u16	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u17	As I said at first reading, the introduction of a digital services tax by legislation is an important step for our Republican pact. The Socialist and Related Group welcomes the agreement reached last week in the CMP, which should allow its final adoption on July 11, thanks to the vote of the Senate. For several years, various initiatives have been launched at European level to tax more precisely the profits of multinationals, particularly those of digital companies. These include the draft common consolidated corporate tax base – ACCIS – committed in 2016, which aimed to lay down common rules for Member States in determining taxable profits and to substantially reduce abusive transfer prices. Let us also mention the digital taxation package, presented in March 2018 and made up of two proposals. The first was to define the concept of virtual permanent establishment. The second was to introduce a turnover tax on certain digital services. Both initiatives are at a standstill. The latest example is the abandonment of the digital services tax on 12 March, due to the lack of unanimity among the Member States of the European Union on this project. We all share the same observation: our tax rules are obsolete when it comes to correctly imposing the value where it is created, especially that which comes from digital technologies. Yet we are unable to put in place a new international tax framework, adapted to the economy of the twenty-first century. In view of this, two options were open to us: to wait for an international initiative to succeed – which seems unlikely for the time being – or to take one at the national level – that is the option you have chosen, Minister. The first option is more attractive intellectually. However, within the European Union, it faces the rule of unanimity, which makes it difficult to achieve it. The OECD believes that it is in a position to reach agreement on the introduction of a digital services tax by 2020. I hope so; Anyway, I'd like to share this optimism! The second option, which you have chosen, is now more politically relevant. The introduction of a French tax on certain digital services has the merit of being a response to European immobilism in this respect. In line with its vote at the end of the first reading, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this text. However, I recall that, even if we are about to take an important step, we are not leaving a blank page; We're not leaving anything. In December 2016, against the Government's opinion – this happens, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u18	Thanks to some!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u19	... especially thanks to you, indeed – you were not rapporteur general at the time, but you had voted the measure –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u20	He was a comrade!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u21	Yes, of course! By December 2016, therefore, our majority had adopted, contrary to the Government's opinion, a so-called " YouTube tax" on advertising billed by the platforms. I should like to recall that this vote was torn off, on a Friday morning, by twelve votes to eleven, as the pressure on the deputies was strong to discourage them from coming to public sittings and voting for this measure, as the Government had indicated that the problem needed to be addressed at the international level. So we're not leaving anything. We were told that this tax would bring at best EUR 1 million, as it brings back 10 today, allocated to the National Centre for Cinema and Animation – Mr General, I hope that we will decide, as part of the finance bill for 2020, that the National Centre for Music will also be able to benefit from it. In any case, the taxation of digital platforms and giants is a policy of small steps rather than a big night. This modest progress is essential to underpin this new tax system. To return to the text that we are interested in today, I welcome the contributions of the parliamentary shuttle, validated in CMP. On the one hand, the wording of Article 1, which seeks to introduce the tax, has been improved. On the other hand, an article strongly encouraging the Government to notify the tax to the European Commission was adopted. This provision is essential because experience has shown us how important it is to ensure compliance with Community rules through our tax legislation. Reporting on the taxation of businesses in the trade sector and the results of the tax will provide parliamentarians with an opportunity to examine the relevance of the tax, with a view, where appropriate, to amending the scheme over the next few years. [[The rapporteur and Mrs Sylvia Pinel applaud]] As at first reading, the Socialist and Related Group will vote on this bill, which has been the subject of a concluding CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u22	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u23	After three months of discussion in the National Assembly and the Senate, MPs and senators, meeting in CMP on June 26, found a compromise on the bill to create a digital services tax and to change the downward trajectory of corporate tax. The general purpose of this text is obviously commendable. In view of the dizzying benefits generated by digital giants, the redistribution of wealth takes on a particularly concrete meaning. The Government's desire to integrate more closely the giant digital companies, more commonly known as GAFA, into the scope of the tax contribution is a matter of common sense as well as of the need to respond to the expectations of our fellow citizens with regard to tax justice. However, the numerous debates over the past three months, whether in the National Assembly or in the Senate, have highlighted some technical and legal difficulties. The aim of the text is to introduce a 3% turnover tax on these companies. Only those with a turnover of more than €750 million in services provided worldwide and €25 million in services provided in France would be concerned. Our group had first wondered about the practical effectiveness of the scheme, particularly with regard to the number of companies involved – some 30 groups – and the expected revenues – about 400 million euros, an amount which remains uncertain despite the contributions of the CMP. In this regard, the mechanism for collecting the tax remained imprecise, as the original text did not determine the modalities for locating users in France. The Senate had, moreover, referred to a decree in the Council of State setting out these modalities. On this point, I would like to welcome the solution provided by the CMP, which, in view of the rigidity of the process, preferred to insert in Article 1er, paragraph 27, a precise definition of the user of a digital interface located in France. However, the collection of the tax may remain complex, as access to the relevant data will be based primarily on a reporting system by the target companies, on which questions can be raised. With regard to the provisional nature of the tax, a lengthy debate had taken place on whether or not to take account of the work of the OECD, which could lead to a similar tax at the international level. In this regard, our group had advocated the entry into force of the tax from 2021 if the work of the OECD did not succeed by then. For its part, the Senate preferred that the tax only apply between 2019 and 2021. The CMP removed the three-year limitation on the application of the fee and expressly provided that the Government's annual progress report on international negotiations should indicate when the coordinated international solution would replace the national fee. This is a great step forward. A more binding legal framework might have been preferable, but we have no doubt that the Government will effectively repeal this tax if the scheme envisaged by the OECD is adopted. I would also like to welcome some progress made by the Senate and retained by the CMP. I am thinking in particular of the question of legal conformity with European law. The scheme should be notified to the European Commission in advance. However, we welcome the Government's obligation to submit to Parliament, within three months of the enactment of the Act, a report setting out the reasons why the fee would not have been notified to the European Commission. On the other hand, the removal of the clearing mechanism allowing debtors to charge the amount of the TSN against that of the C3S is regrettable, as it can lead to an unacceptable form of double taxation. On the other hand, I regret the change in the downward trajectory of corporate tax. I fear that it will fuel a sense of insecurity among entrepreneurs as much as among foreign investors, while we need more stability than ever to restore a climate of trust. [[The rapporteur applauds]] In conclusion, while tax revenues and legal certainty remain uncertain, the objective of better tax justice is commendable. The contributions of the compromise found in CMPs are significant, but are still insufficient. Therefore, opinions are divided within the IDU group and independent: the majority of its members will abstain; In my personal capacity, I will support the bill, because it is high time to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u24	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u25	At a time when we are about to vote on the digital services tax bill, following a concluding CMP, let us ask ourselves: What questions does this bill raise? And what answers does it bring? The first question concerns the introduction of tools to ensure fair taxation of digital services and activities, including those related to the sale of data. The second question, the corollary of the first, concerns the territorial distribution of tax, the challenge being to tax wealth where it is created. The third question arises from a finding that the digital economy is largely dominated by large groups, whose market capitalization exceeds the GDP of some states. In the face of these mastodons and lack of coordination, States lose their sovereignty. The growth of the digital economy should encourage legislators to undertake far-reaching and comprehensive reforms aimed at increasing justice, particularly in the tax field. Thus, how can we accept that the corporate tax rate applied to artisans, TPEs and SMEs is much higher than that to which digital giants are actually subject? The CMP has improved the very complex mechanism adopted at first reading. Our benevolence towards this tax does not prevent us from seeing its imperfections. My colleague Michel Castellani, who spoke at first reading on behalf of our group and who cannot be present today, because he is detained in Corsica by the Prime Minister's displacement, had already stressed them. The choice to retain turnover, not profits, as a tax base is unsatisfactory. It is, in our eyes, one of the Achilles' heels of the device. Furthermore, we are concerned about possible legal contradictions, in particular with European law. Finally, we will pay particular attention to the impact that the TSN could have on consumers and on certain French groups. Above all, we must tell our fellow citizens that this text alone will not be the big fiscal night for GAFAs. Let us take this law for what it is: an attempt to provide a partial response to this unacceptable situation; a national solution to a global problem. We must also look at this text by referring to the initiatives under way at European and, above all, global level. Minister, our country must be at the forefront of this fight, particularly within the OECD. In this regard, our group notes with satisfaction the developments of recent weeks. We therefore welcome the consensus reached at the OECD meeting on 29 May: 129 states then approved a roadmap to establish a global taxation of digital giants. The recent G20 of the Finance Ministers confirmed this progress, with the finalization of an agreement in principle on the harmonisation of digital taxation and the modification of the method of calculating business taxation. These commitments must now be translated into an effective agreement. We regret that Article 2 differs from the reduction in corporate tax on certain enterprises; It's a form of renunciation. This change is expected to bring the state coffers nearly four times as much as the TSN, which still holds the debate. The aim is to finance in part the additional expenditure caused by the emergency measures adopted last December. The price is tax instability for businesses, which undermines their confidence, undermines their finances and ultimately their competitiveness. We regret it. We will therefore be all the more vigilant about meeting the target, as the Head of State has set and as you have reaffirmed, Minister, a reduction in the rate of the IS to 25% for all businesses in 2022. We will also be demanding on the evaluation of the introduction of the TSN and its economic impact; we will pay more attention to the report provided for in the text. [[The rapporteur applauds]] TSN is only one step. It must enable France to stimulate the ambition, in Europe and throughout the world, to build a global tax system. We therefore hope that this national tax will give way, as soon as possible, to global taxation. In the meantime, the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u26	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u27	The history of this bill is that of a false appearance, and I do not share the optimism of most previous speakers. Faced with the scandalous and growing problem of tax optimisation by increasingly powerful multinationals, the bill's ambitions have been steadily reduced, thus ultimately eluded the core of the problem. Rather than ensuring that everyone finally respects the same rules of the game, we end up with a tax that will apply only to very specific digital activities, such as targeted online advertising. Moreover, this tax will only be due from an extremely high level of turnover, since this threshold allows many very large companies to pass between the meshes of the net. As if, at less than 750 million euros of global turnover, we were dealing with small businesses that should be saved! No, it is indeed all multinationals that should have been involved, since all can resort to profit transfer techniques and thus avoid paying much of the taxes they owe us. Worse still, the few companies that fall within the scope of the bill will not even have to account for all their profits actually realized in France; We took up this proposal for an amendment that was adopted almost unanimously in the Senate, but you rejected it. As we know, French SMEs are taxed on average at 23%, when GAFAs are taxed at only 9%, although they earn billions of euros in profits each year. Will this new tax fill this unequal gulf? The answer is obviously no, everyone knows it here. How can we congratulate ourselves on such a superficial measure, while recognizing the immensity of the problem? With this text, the Government follows its usual logic: in the same way, it tells us that the issue of climate emergency is essential, while approving the signing of the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur. The proposal before us is more like an amicable transaction with the GAFA than a truly tax-binding one. How can we accept that French and French people are looted with billions of euros every year by ultra-rich people and that we simply ask the thieves kindly to return a small share of the loot, barely 400 million euros in total? Ironically, the companies concerned, notably Amazon, are already telling you that they are ready to pass on the tax on to consumers. Not only will they still not be taxed to the extent of their profits, but they plan to pay almost nothing. Let's mention this absolutely extraordinary message from their lawyer company, which serves as a lobby: she warns that no one really knows how Bercy is going to control the tax revenues associated with this tax. In other words, she reassures her clients, the GAFAs. Despite the seriousness of the situation, you have chosen to completely ignore the amendments proposed by the Group of the European People's Party. However, they could have helped to make this tax a real tool against tax evasion and the omnipotence of large multinationals. The problem of tax havens, for example, continues to be ignored. However, the tax optimisation techniques that pose a problem to us are largely based on their functioning and on the possibility of housing there. Instead of taking into account this inescapable issue, the majority insisted on the need for an agreement at European Union level. It is now known that this is a false hope and a perfect pretext for delaying, or at least limiting, the actual effect of the bill. Today, it is no longer the agreement of the Twenty-Seven that we are waiting for before we really act, but rather the agreement of the OECD. The whole world should thus agree before France allows itself to tax profits correctly on its own territory. These explanations and processes are tantamount to questioning our sovereignty; We forget the international weight our country would gain by adopting exemplary measures. Our country has never been as big as it was when it was bold. We should pave the way in a much more radical way. At a time when a company like Apple is paying just 19 million euros of taxes in France, for a global turnover of about 195.5 billion, at a time when a company like Facebook is projecting its domination ever further by announcing a cryptocurrency project that should raise questions and worry from the states, you are making the sad demonstration of their inability. Earth is burning. Yesterday, in the Gard, we found a temperature of 45 degrees. We can no longer afford the luxury of a small-step policy. What does this have to do with our subject, will you tell me? Here it is: the billions they steal from us are also the ones we miss for the ecological transition. We are at war with a system that puts us at risk. Radical measures are needed, far from missed appointments like this one. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u28	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u29	As we did at first reading, we will not vote on this bill; we will abstain. With this digital services tax, we were going to see what we were going to see; We were going to pull out the heavy artillery; Our country was finally going to take on its responsibilities and tackle an endemic problem at the same time. In fact, tax fraud and tax evasion are all "knife blows carried to the Republican pact",...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u31	...to paraphrase what you said in this Chamber, Minister. For years, the Communist deputies have been constantly denouncing them; Combating these phenomena should be a priority public objective, the major national cause. A 14-point tax gap between the TPEs and the major groups, gapes in our public finances – between €60 billion and €100 billion for our country alone – multinationals that hold the levers against a public power reduced to the role of spectator, less financial means for employment, territories and the environment: these are the sad features of the picture that is available to us. This phenomenon has become a true international sport to which big multinationals, very rich taxpayers and leading political figures have given themselves and are still engaged, as the news shows once again. The Canard's revelations on the fortune hidden in Switzerland by Raymond Barre, former Prime Minister, former Minister of Economy and Finance, former preacher of budgetary rigour,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u32	Don't make an analogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u33	... carry an umpteenth hard blow to the credibility of the elected members of the Republic that we are. The reaction of our fellow citizens to this case shows that they are waiting for powerful measures, not false appearances and other tricks to which they have been far too accustomed in recent years. However, with this digital tax project, the mountain gives birth once again to a mouse. This tax could correct the tax injustice between large digital companies and our TPEs and SMEs; She doesn't. This tax could be used to finance social and fiscal justice measures; She doesn't. And because it's almost an empty shell. Its rate is particularly low, 3%, when some of our European partners have chosen more ambitious solutions, with a rate of up to 5%. Its base is equally riquiqui, since only certain digital activities will be subject to taxation. The Starbucks, Nike and other McDonald's will therefore be excluded from the tax, although they do not operate in the digital sector but are active in tax avoidance and optimisation. Unsurprisingly, the final result is disappointing. The tax will have a return of 500 million euros gross – still this figure is inflated with helium. Since it will be deductible from corporate tax, its proceeds will be reduced by one third. It will therefore earn only 350 million net a year, ten times less than the solidarity tax on wealth. I say ten times less, ladies and gentlemen! This tax is therefore not the answer our fellow citizens have expected in terms of tax justice. True to its values, our group has defended proposals, otherwise more ambitious, but they have been systematically rejected, which does not really surprise us. We are not saying that things are simple, minister. Of course, it would be futile to want to fight alone in our corner, when this scourge is global and Europe is gangregnated by tax dumping. We support the conclusion of a larger-scale agreement and we hope that this tax can be used as a support in the negotiations at OECD level, even if we believe that we would have weighed the negotiations further by setting a higher rate. However, as I have indicated, it must be noted that this is more a communication operation than a genuine commitment to fight tax evasion. Let us remember this strange paradox: on the one hand, you claim to be active in the fight against tax evasion; On the other hand, with clause 2 of this bill, you are anchoring our country in the disastrous race at least so-called fiscal, approving once and for all the reduction of the corporate tax rate to 25%, at a cost of 11 billion euros from 2023, which will further amplify the transfer of corporate taxation to households – we have recently learned of eloquent figures on this subject. So you understand why the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u34	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u35	We are meeting to complete the review of the bill to create a digital services tax and to change the downward trajectory of corporate tax, following last week's successful CMP. We can only welcome the convergence effort that we have all shown, Members of Parliament and Senators, in order to quickly finalize a text of very high symbolic significance at the international level, and also very much expected by our fellow citizens. There are two parts to this text. On the one hand, it introduces a digital services tax specifically applicable to turnover from high value-added activities in the digital sector, which are therefore dematerialised, and which are not covered by the traditional tax mechanism. On the other hand, it maintains the tax rate of large companies and multinationals at its current level, in order to ensure some of the financing of the social measures announced at the end of last year, at the heart of the crisis that our country has experienced. With regard to the TSN, as you know, France has been working tirelessly since 2012 in international forums to put an end to the scandalous situation of multinationals and GAFAs, who manage to escape tax anywhere in the world. OECD countries have worked, in conjunction with the G7 and G20, to redefine base rules through several conventions imposing new obligations. The European Union has also addressed this issue, and I regret that the recent election campaign has not been an opportunity to highlight the enormous work done at European level, which has led to the adoption of more than ten directives dedicated to banking transparency, tax transparency, base rules, financial burden limitation, anti-money laundering or the involvement of intermediaries. While all these advances are changing the face of global taxation, a serious problem remains, that of the location of the taxable results of digital companies, i.e. the question of permanent establishment. To tax profit where it is created is at stake, but also the node explaining the failure of the negotiations so far. I regret that the large French companies represented in the French Association of Private Enterprises – AFEP – have always refused to make any progress on this point, arguing that the intellectual property of the French groups would be taxed in China. But where is she taxed today, if not in Switzerland? In other words, she's not taxed! Again, it is the OECD that says so. The same AFEP appealed to the Constitutional Council against the anti-fraud law, which we adopted almost unanimously and which put an end to Bercy's lockdown. This is the spectacle that these big companies offer us: they make profits, but refuse to comply with our tax rules and our solidarity rules, at a time when we have to rebuild citizen confidence in our tax system. Of course, the digital services tax we introduce is about turnover and does not replace the fair taxation of results. However, this is a first step we must take in order to put an end to the imbalance resulting from the non-taxation of the profits derived from these activities. This tax was adopted by the Senate, with the few corrections set out by Joël Giraud, rapporteur-general and rapporteur of the CMP. In the end, we have retained Article 1 bis A, which provides for the submission of a report by the Government on the reasons for the possible absence of notification of the tax in Brussels, which seems to us to secure the text. For the rest, an administrative rescript should address CRS activities. Finally, we went back to the imputation of the TSN to the C3S, which had been introduced by the Senate. This tax will therefore be deductible from the result submitted to the IS, as will other taxes borne by the company. We can welcome the agreement reached with our colleagues in this chamber. This tax also inspires ongoing work within the OECD and the European Union. It is therefore only a step in solving the problem of the location of taxable profits in the era of digitisation of the economy. OECD finance ministers will meet next fall in Washington to work specifically on this issue, following the Fukuoka summit last June. I turn to the SI rate applied to large companies, which is the subject of Article 2. As you know, the President of the Republic announced, at the end of last year, a series of measures to respond to the social emergencies brought to light during the movement of anger: an increase in the activity premium, the abolition of part of the increase in the CSG, the debilitated premiums, and the cancellation of the increase in the carbon tax. These measures have a cost to our public finances, which we must finance. We are calling here for an effort by the larger companies, by maintaining their tax rates on the IS, without damaging the overall downward trajectory of the IS for the other companies. I note that the Senate majority has not opposed this article, unlike the parliamentary right here.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u36	We'll tell you why!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u37	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] I therefore welcome the immense wisdom of our honourable senators, who have surely seen the Government's provision as a measure of fairness. It is also in response to a request by our majority, expressed last December, to the National Assembly during its discussions with the Government. I hope that our colleagues will agree with the wise position of the Senate. For its part, the parliamentary majority will enthusiastically vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u38	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u39	The text that is submitted to our vote, following the CMP of 26 June, remains unbalanced in several ways. This is the case, first and foremost, with regard to communication. The title of the bill – "the creation of a digital service tax and the modification of the downward trajectory of corporate tax" – clearly mentions the two topics addressed in the bill. However, this title is often reduced to "digital services tax bill," a term that is widely understood. Even the Green Sheet, which presents the agenda of the National Assembly as defined by the Conference of Presidents, indicates this shortcoming. As the chairman of the Finance Committee would say, it went under radar. That is to say, the desire to make it very quickly forget, probably, Article 2, which provides for an increase in corporate tax. In addition, we deplore an imbalance in budgetary issues. Article 2 provides for companies to pay €1.7 billion for 2019, while Article 1 requires the Government to report €400 million in 2019, €450 million in 2020 and €650 million in 2022. Article 2, on IS, therefore weighs four times as much as Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u40	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u41	Nevertheless, the two articles have one thing in common: they respond to the need to increase France's tax revenues. With Article 2, the Government finally renounces to reduce the IS rate from 33.33% to 28% for companies with a turnover of at least 250 million euros. This discreetly introduced measure, which imposes a charge of EUR 1.7 billion on businesses, unfortunately reflects the fiscal instability that is taking place in our country. I remember that in 2017, Mr.Minister, you said that you wanted to breathe new life into asphyxiated French companies, you acknowledged, under the burden of burdens on their competitiveness. With your hand on your heart, you promised, on behalf of the majority, to reduce the rate of the IS to 28%, as of 2018, on the fraction of profits less than 500,000 euros, then to 31% for all profits in 2019, 28% in 2020, 26.5% in 2021 and 25% in 2022. Unfortunately, it took you only a few months to reverse your promise and prolong, in so doing, a situation of fiscal instability. Moreover, if we believe in the media and refer to certain announcements, a further postponement is likely to be envisaged in 2020. It is truly exasperating to see the idleness with which you come back on commitments announced with great strokes of bugle. Finally, we are moving very quickly away from the target of 25% by 2022, even though I heard a few minutes ago that this target was maintained. As you know, Members of the Republican Group are opposed to Article 2. On the other hand, we are in favour of Article 1 on the digital services tax, which has in any case attracted media attention. At this stage, digital giants, often referred to as GAFAM – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft – actually manage to escape very widely from tax in Europe. We therefore share your objective of correcting this situation, in which internationalized companies locate their activities in countries where the tax on profits is low, and thus evade tax. The Republicans Group had also been a forerunner, since it had proposed, as part of the 2019 Finance Bill, a turnover tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u43	We wholeheartedly hope that a solution will be found at European or global level. And we regret, Minister, your refusal to include the transitional nature of the tax in the marble of the law, pending the possible creation of a tax on another scale.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u44	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u45	You mentioned our concerns a few minutes ago. This tax remains imperfect. Since the base used is turnover, this tax created to sanction the least virtuous will also apply to companies that do not practice tax optimisation. It will also be able to reach companies that do not make profits. I had proposed an amendment to make the TSN deductible not from the taxable base, but from the very amount of the SI paid by businesses. Unfortunately, this mechanism, also referred to in the Senate, cannot be legally retained. What about the implementation of the TSN? The device is complex, with a base calculated in proportion to the number of users located in France. The manner in which users are located also remains complicated. You understand, this tax is not the panacea. Nevertheless, it must be the beginning of a European or global solution. That is why we are in favour of Article 1. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Deeply opposed to Article 2, but in favour of Article 1, the Republican Group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u46	All right! It is clear: we are in favour of Article 1, but against Article 2!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u47	We too, but for different reasons...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u48	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u49	My colleague Jean-Paul Mattei recalled this during the debates at first reading: there is currently a 14-point gap between the taxation of companies established in France and that of digital giants, while the former create jobs in our territories and are not relocateable. Anatole France said: "Justice is the punishment of established injustices. The injustice that has been established between the companies of our daily lives and our territories and the digital giants will tomorrow be a little smaller, thanks to this text. This text therefore responds to both a need for tax justice and a need for fairness between our businesses. In addition, it will fund, among other things, the public services we need. The bill we are about to pass is innovative from a legal point of view. First, it anticipates the adoption of a European directive defended by France – we hope that it will be adopted by 2021. Secondly, it seeks to introduce a new objective criterion, the validity of which was recognised by the Council of State in its opinion, namely the taxation of profits realized on a consumer supplier of value located in France. It is the territorial origin of value creation that will be the criterion of taxation. Thirdly, this 3% tax is expected to raise EUR 500 million – in a cruise regime, of course – which will help to finance, among other things, the measures in favour of the most modest ones voted after the major debate. We welcome the constructive work done with our colleagues in the Senate, both during the parliamentary shuttle and during the concluding CMP. This is a great step forward and a sign of our country's determination to act in favour of tax justice. As is well known in the fight against tax evasion and fraud, only coordinated action at European level can be truly effective. However, our responsibility, that of our country, is also to set an example and demonstrate our determination in this regard, as international negotiations continue. We are not naive: this tax alone is probably not enough, if it is not accompanied by regular and permanent negotiation work with our partners. This is illustrated by the example of the financial transaction tax, which is still at a standstill at European level. I refer here to the question raised by my colleague Jean-Paul Mattei concerning Article 1 bis A, which provides for the Government to submit a report on the grounds for failure to notify the European Commission of the fee. Such a report could create a doubt that would weaken the tax. Let us hope, as the rapporteur-general had pointed out, that this provision is simply "superfectory"! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] During the return of the great debate, I quoted Rousseau in this rostrum: "Justice is a gigantic spider's web that catches the little fly and lets it pass wasps and hornets. With this new tax, ladies and gentlemen, we will now be able to catch some wasps or even some hornets! That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will fully support this text, which is an important step towards fairer taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u50	The general discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote by public vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u51	You're a better president than Mr Ferrand, who doesn't give us time to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u52	Mr. The Fur is a real democrat!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u53	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u54	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 34 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 34 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u55	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u56	I just want to thank you, ladies and gentlemen: no vote against this text, adopted by a large majority. Thanks to you, France is the first country in Europe to impose taxation on digital giants,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u57	Let's not forget the YouTube tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u58	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mrs Valérie Rabault also applauds]] ... to pave the way for the regulation of digital giants and to define what the taxation of the twenty-first century should be, that is, taxation that is not only about manufactured goods, but also about digital activities, and that categorically and firmly rejects any tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u59	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u60	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u61	The next item is the debate on the bill authorizing the ratification of the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol on Liability and Reparation for the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety (No. 1391, 1788).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u62	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u63	In the preamble, I would like to thank you, Mrs Poletti, for the remarkable report you have produced on the subject before us today. The Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol on Liability and Reparation is the outcome of a process initiated in 2003 with the entry into force of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, which is related to the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Cartagena Protocol establishes rules for the cross-border movement of living modified organisms – VMOs. It provides for the collection of the preliminary agreement of the importing country and lays down the principle of a risk assessment. As a reminder, LMOs are a subset of GMOs. These are living organisms capable of breeding in the environment, thus excluding manufactured products. The Additional Protocol complements the Cartagena Protocol with provisions on biodiversity damage related to transboundary movements of MVOs. This additional protocol defines the procedures and administrative requirements in the event of damage or a sufficient likelihood of damage to biodiversity. It also specifies the roles and duties of operators and competent authorities in this field. The competent authority may thus require the operator to take measures or to take action if he has not, but also to recover from him the costs associated with the assessment of damage and the adoption of appropriate intervention measures. Ratification of this protocol is important. It will allow us to signify that it is also an international reference for us – many countries already rely on it to establish their own regulations. In addition, the Protocol has made it possible to change the framework of environmental responsibility at the international level, as international legally binding instruments have so far been scarce in the area of biodiversity. Since French law already complies with the provisions of the Protocol, the ratification by France does not require the modification or adaptation of national law and national practices. However, it remains essential to ratify it, on the one hand, in order to establish France's credibility in protecting the environment and biodiversity – this is a priority of the Government, since the President of the Republic has repeatedly affirmed that the preservation of biodiversity and the fight against global warming must go hand in hand – on the other hand, in order to allow our participation in the work to be carried out at the meeting of the parties. The next meeting of the Parties will be held at the end of 2020. It will be part of the momentum of the Fifteenth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity – COP15 – and the Tenth Meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol. This is a major negotiating deadline: it is a unique opportunity to demonstrate our ambition to preserve biodiversity for decades to come. In order to be frank, we must be a party to all the international agreements arising from the Convention on Biological Diversity. This is, I repeat, a priority for France: we want to play a more active role on the issue of biodiversity conservation, our action being also based on scientific knowledge. This is why we hosted the work of IPBES – an intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services – at the beginning of the year and will host the World Conservation Congress in Marseille in June 2020. France is already very involved in international negotiations on biodiversity conservation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are the main observations called the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol, which is the subject of the bill before you. I therefore invite you to authorize its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u64	Mrs Bérengère Poletti, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u65	The Secretary of State has just presented the so-called Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Protocol, concluded in 2010. It is part of a direct connection with the 1992 Rio Convention on Biological Diversity. Article 19 of the Convention dealt, without too much prejudice, with issues relating to biotechnology: it referred to the fact that it might be necessary to regulate the movements of MVOs in order to protect biodiversity. In the years that followed, the development of biotechnology has been accompanied by violent controversies about the risks posed by its applications, particularly in the field of MVOs. The European Union and France then opted for the precautionary principle, i.e. a risk prevention approach in the absence of scientific certainty on the effects of MVOs on the environment and health. France has gone very far in this direction, since the precautionary principle occupies the highest place in the hierarchy of standards since the integration of the Environmental Charter into the constitutionality block in 2005. The European Union has finally banned the cultivation of GMOs, with the exception of Monsanto corn MON810, which actually has a very moderate success, since it is grown only in Spain and Portugal. France has completely renounced the cultivation of OVM, since 2008 on a commercial basis, since 2013 on an experimental basis. In my opinion, this position was wise. Indeed, we still do not have any serious evidence to suggest that GMOs will eventually be essential to feed the planet; This idea is now highly contested. On the other hand, the risks posed by GMOs to biodiversity are now documented by many scientific studies, not to mention the risks to human health, which fall outside the scope of the protocol we are examining today. In view of the evolution of biodiversity in major GMO-producing countries, we can boast that we have made the right choice. I think, among other things, in the United States, Brazil, Argentina and Canada – 85% of OVM's cultivated areas are located on the American continent. In these countries, the increase in the area under cultivation of OVM has not reduced the use of herbicides and pesticides – it is often the opposite. And there is no doubt that the diversity of cultures has been reduced as a skin of grief. The Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Protocol reflects an awareness of the risks by the international community, which began with the conclusion of the Cartagena Protocol in 2000. It has regulated transboundary movements of MVOs in order to limit the risk of uncontrolled release that could lead to serious biodiversity damage. However, as we all know, prevention is not always sufficient in the absence of sanctions. This is the contribution of the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Protocol, which is submitted to us today. By requiring States to prescribe mandatory remedial measures in the event of damage to biodiversity, it encourages States to strengthen their vigilance to avoid such damage. He therefore creditizes the process initiated in 2000 with the Cartagena Protocol. This protocol is undoubtedly a step forward, which should be welcomed. Of course, it will not solve all the problems associated with the spread of MVOs, if only because it will not be able to force the major producing countries, which will not be able to ratify it. But this is an inherent limitation of all international texts of this nature. On the other hand, the Protocol applies to MVOs imported by States Parties from States that are not parties to the Protocol. It therefore reinforces the pressure on the latter by creating an international standard for the protection of biodiversity in the face of VMOs. No doubt you will find that this is very little in the face of the large producers of OVM, whose weight in trade is considerable. Indeed, the balance of power was uneven, particularly for developing countries, which were concerned that their local resources were threatened, but did not have the means to withstand the economic pressure they were under. Europe, too, struggles to resist economic pressure when it signs trade agreements with the States of America. This also justifies some of our reservations about these agreements. The Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Protocol is an important issue for Europe, as it gives us an opportunity to bring a message to the international community, to defend a model, to show pedagogy about our own regulations, which can sometimes be misunderstood. It would be incomprehensible that the countries of the European Union, whose standards are fully in line with the provisions of the Protocol since the adoption of the Environmental Liability Directive in 2004, do not support this when they have weighed heavily in its negotiations. In this regard, I believe that France has been somewhat slow to ratify the protocol. Concluded nine years ago, it entered into force in March 2018, after having been ratified by forty states. Within the European Union, 18 Member States have already deposited their instruments of ratification. It was therefore more than time for France to mobilize itself. It is now done, and we must rejoice at it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Christian Hutin also applauds]] I therefore invite you to vote unanimously, as we have done in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the bill authorizing the ratification of this protocol, which does not imply any change in our domestic law and reflects our concerns about MVOs and environmental responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u66	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u67	It is very good news that this House is now completing the ratification procedure for the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol. I thank the rapporteur of the bill, Bérengère Poletti, who, as usual, has submitted a very comprehensive and precise report, which has fed into a real debate in committee, not only on the protocol itself, but also, beyond – and this is probably the most important – on the preservation of biodiversity and its corollary, the fight against the spread of VMOs. To recognize the seriousness of the situation in this area, I would like to recall here the alarming report published last May by the scientists of IPBES, who are alerting the international community to the serious state of biodiversity. All the tools that will enable us to respond to this alarm cry are really welcome. This protocol is part of it. Its ratification by France will contribute to this vital movement for the preservation of biodiversity. This text strengthens the international regime for the prevention of the risks associated with the spread of VMOs, by imposing binding measures to repair damage to biodiversity. It imposes a healthy exercise of international responsibility, which should be welcomed. We have here a concrete mechanism for applying the principles of nature protection. In doing so, this protocol contributes to the adoption, at international level, of a precautionary approach similar to that which governs European and French regulations. For us French, who chose to give constitutional value to the precautionary principle as early as 2005, it is a real step forward and a great satisfaction. By ratifying this protocol, France is in a position to better promote this precautionary approach throughout the world. This is an essential point, because we all know that GMOs and MVOs pose a real threat to biodiversity in the world. This debate is also an opportunity to stress that Europe must go even further, be more proactive, to promote biodiversity and the precautionary principle in the face of large producers of MVOs and large multinationals. As you pointed out, the rapporteur, the main producers of OVM – the United States, Brazil, Argentina, Canada and India – have still not ratified the protocol. We cannot and must not be satisfied with such a situation. Many developing countries are under pressure from large multinational corporations, which want to impose on them, among other things, their seeds. Europe must help them resist and offer them alternative solutions, for example by allowing African producers to use local seeds for better biodiversity conservation. France must take the lead in this fight and include this ambition in the future law of direction and programming on development policy and international solidarity. The European Union must also reaffirm its commitment to the precautionary principle in its trade negotiations. Future trade agreements will have to take into account the major international conventions on climate, but also on biodiversity. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr Christian Hutin, Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon also applaud]] The adoption of this protocol is therefore good news for the preservation of biodiversity. But it must also push us to do more and better on this vital issue for the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u68	In the general debate, Mr Bruno Joncour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u69	Harmful toxins for non-target insects, the transfer of modified genes to other organisms, the risk of invasion for the ecosystem, are some of the risks presented by VMOs, which were grown on more than 190 million hectares in 2017, knowing that this area is constantly increasing. In response to these risks, the Cartagena Protocol, adopted on 29 January 2000, established international regulations for the transfer, handling and use of LMOs, in order to prevent their harm to biodiversity. It is complementary to the Rio de Janeiro Convention on Biological Diversity, adopted on 22 May 1992. Ratified by 171 states, including some large producers of GMOs, such as Brazil or India, this protocol does not address the issue of liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by movements of GMOs. This is the purpose of the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol, which is intended to allow ratification. How could we consider the mechanism established by the Cartagena Protocol to be complete, without the establishment of "international procedures for liability and reparation for living modified organisms"? The answer to this question is simple: we cannot. That is why Article 27 of the Cartagena Protocol called for further negotiations to this end. This is not a question of establishing a responsibility in principle, considering that the fear that the protocol will inspire the various operators will help to avoid any incident. The considerations of this species are quite different: it is primarily a question of limiting the impact on biodiversity of possible incidents related to movements of MVOs, because we must consider its preservation as a prerequisite for the production of quality foodstuffs, which we all need. This is not about convictions, it is about necessity! France understood that very well. This is why our country has completely interrupted the cultivation of OVM since 2008, as well as experiments in the field since 2013. The stakes for France are not negligible. Indeed, as a result of the decisions I have recalled, biodiversity damage related to VMOs can only be caused by accidental contamination at the borders or through imported seeds. Even though these violations remain, in fact, limited, our collective responsibility can only encourage us to join the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol. This consideration is not Franco-French. Apart from the question of the conformity of French domestic law with the Protocol, the real challenge for our country lies in the promotion, within the international legal order, of European rules on GMOs. Everyone is able to see the proliferation of bilateral trade agreements; Some of us regret it. In any case, if we do not bother to impose the philosophy of European standards in this area, in particular that of the precautionary principle – knowing that European standards are themselves faithful to French philosophy – we will one day be confronted with other, less qualitative rules that pose a risk to biodiversity. The Protocol therefore calls for the establishment of a system of binding administrative liability for biodiversity damage related to transboundary movements of MVOs. This mechanism includes intervention measures, i.e. the obligation for States, where damage has occurred, to require operators to inform the competent authorities without delay, to assess the damage and to take appropriate measures. These intervention measures may also be preventive where there is "a sufficient likelihood of injury". The simple reading of this mechanism reveals the common sense of the protocol and the progress it represents because of its binding nature and its effectiveness as against MVOs from non-parties. Our law is more demanding than the system provided for, in particular under the 2004 European Directive on Environmental Liability, which introduces a polluter pays principle. However, no one can doubt the validity of this protocol. For countries that do not have the same right as us, it will be a major step forward in protecting the environment and biodiversity. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group and on the benches of the committee]] Thus, there is no valid reason why the French Parliament should be allowed to ratify this protocol, to which our domestic legislation is fully compliant. Recognizing that the defence of biodiversity is a fundamental issue, which will be even more so in the coming decades, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports the bill and will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u70	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u71	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u72	Let me begin by telling you, Madam Chairman of the Committee, that the examination of this protocol in a public meeting honours the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I believe that all the groups in this House are pleased that you are defending the committee with energy. You have given its members the opportunity to speak in the Chamber on key issues such as this one, and I would like to greet him. Madam rapporteur, dear Bérangère, what a complicated text, especially for the modest general practitioner I am! Biotechnology, whether GMOs are VMOs, whether VMOs are GMOs... However, in your report you have shown great clarity and objectivity. You're not hiding anything, and the report makes it clear. I wanted to congratulate you on that. It is clear from this that the protocol is a good text, which we will of course allow to be ratified. As was pointed out at the time of the introduction of the bill, there are some paradoxes: the countries that produce the most GMOs have not yet signed the protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u73	Of course! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u74	The Cartagena Protocol and the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol are an open door and offer hope for progress. In France, we like to open doors, and that is a very good thing. The report refers to major risks to biodiversity, including the invasion of our land by these resistant plants – they remind me of green algae – or their effects on non-invasive insects. In any case, the protocol is fully compatible with European directives. France is, moreover, well ahead of these issues: we have banned GMOs in cultivation and experimentation. So we are the freest and most objective in the world to talk about it. Don't be mad at me, I'll talk about my family. This weekend, I visited my parents, aged 89 and 90, in their campaign. Thinking of common sense peasant, I went to see my cousin who is a farmer in the neighborhood, I showed him the report of the committee and I discussed the problem with him. To my astonishment, he told me about an episode of recent contagion – perhaps you don't know, Madam Secretary of State. In Picardia, two kilometres from the fields my grandfather operated more than sixty years ago, two thousand hectares were contaminated with Canadian camelline, a three thousand-year-old plant that underwent major genetic changes. However, the precautionary principle and the traceability system worked very well. The seller immediately contacted all the farmers who had sown the rapeseed in question. He advised them to turn over the rapeseed and not to plow, otherwise the consequences would have been serious; There was compensation. Nevertheless, some farmers, including members of the Peasant Confederation, have refused to do so, and discussions are under way. This corner of the Hauts-de-France campaign has therefore already experienced, a few months ago, the situations we are talking about today. To believe the common sense of my cousin's peasant, for whom I have a lot of admiration and affection, the seed of rapeseed, planted by my grandmother forty-five or fifty years ago, dates back. The contaminated seeds will then go up some day; It will be a reality, even if they will constitute a minor part of the cultures. We often talk about the butterfly's wing beat that changes the world; In this case, it will be the small universe of life of the earthworm which, forty years later, will bring up the seeds of GMO rape. [[Smile]] [[Applause on all benches]] So we're playing the sorcerer apprentice, Der Zauberlehrling. Don't worry, I won't do my Bruno Le Maire: I won't speak German, except for this reference to Goethe's poem of 1797, which deals with the same subject as the American film Fantasia of 1940 or the French symphonic poem L'Apprenti sorcier. It is up to us, in this House and at European level, to do everything we need to ensure that the situation never degenerates. This additional protocol is an excellent thing, as it may allow us to type a little bit on the fingers of the sorcerer apprentices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u75	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u76	We are about to allow the ratification of an additional protocol on biosafety. This Treaty is in line with France's international commitments since the 1992 Rio Convention on Biological Diversity. The objective of the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Protocol is to develop international rules and procedures on liability and reparation, when damage is caused by transboundary movements of living modified organisms – a somewhat broader category than GMOs because they also cover non-genetic biological changes. I haveten to point out that, like Mr Hutin, I am not a specialist in these highly technical matters. However, with your permission, Madam Secretary of State, I propose a small trip to the territory of Caledonia, from which I came, to try to measure the concrete effects of this international protocol, sometimes a bit complex to read. In concrete terms, the risks to which GMOs expose us are, I believe, of three kinds. First risk: their uncontrolled spread in agriculture, by mistake, by ignorance, sometimes by chance, with possible effects, especially on the ecosystem. In the 2000s, New Caledonia imported two varieties of papaya from Hawaii: sunset and sunrise. Since the cultivation of the papaya GMO is highly developed on this American archipelago, it has become clear that New Caledonia is cultivating, out of ignorance, papayas contaminated with GMO. This is at least what Hong Kong Customs tests reveal, which now refuse the Caledonian papayas. There is therefore work to be done locally to replant unmodified papayas, and the impact on local agriculture is significant. Clearly, beyond this example of Caledonian, it can be said that many other ultramarine territories, large importers of food and seeds from countries outside the European Union – from Asia to the Pacific, from the United States to the Caribbean – are also affected by the presence of imported GMOs that are proliferating. The introduction of MVOs into the territory of New Caledonia can sometimes be a legitimate cause. For example, to combat the dengue epidemic, which contaminates thousands of people every year and some of whom die – this arbovirosis has killed two people since January – New Caledonia will experience a release of a colony of biologically modified mosquitoes. The process, already experienced in Australia, is simple. The bacterium wolbachia is inoculated at a local colony of mosquitoes raised in battery, if I may say so, at the Institut Pasteur. This genetically transmissible bacterium affects the mosquito's ability to transmit the pathogenic germs of dengue, zika and chikungunya. Once spread across the territory – the release is scheduled for July 10, in a few days – these modified mosquitoes will reproduce with wild mosquitoes: over time, all mosquitoes will therefore carry the Wolbachia bacteria, reducing to nothing, I hope, the risk of an epidemic of dengue and other mosquito-borne viruses. For the High Biotechnology Council, this technique uses an OVM and therefore falls under the scope of the 2001 European Directive. In the face of the health drama caused by mosquito-borne arbovirosis, New Caledonia therefore takes the risk that a species of modified mosquitoes will, in the long term, completely replace a species of endemic mosquitoes. The effects, obviously beneficial in the short term, are unknown in the long term. However, replacing endemic species with modified species is a first risk, against which a State must be able to take responsibility. Second risk of the introduction of OVM: the impact on soil fertility and the environment. Since GMOs are designed to resist herbicides, they allow for massive application in crops in places. However, if the plant resists, the soil, which harbours and feeds insects and worms, becomes sterile under the influence of herbicide, not to mention that GMOs also produce, with a seed that will eventually rise, a molecule that kills harmful insects. However, removing insects also removes a large portion of the food from birds and amphibians, hence from those that pollinate plants and allow for their reproduction. A recent study has shown that Europe has lost 76% of its insects and 400 million birds. According to Greenpeace, 75% of global food production depends on the activity of bees and other bumblebees. The model of intensive agriculture, which is highly resistant to herbicides and GMOs, should therefore be examined in terms of its impact on the destruction of biodiversity. That is why, beyond our participation in the Cartagena Protocol, we believe that the precautionary principle of not allowing GMO crops and prohibiting the use of certain molecules such as glyphosate or neonicotinoid insecticides remains essential to ensure biosecurity in France. Third risk: the cultivation of some GMO seeds also favours monoculture, to the detriment of the diversity of crops. It's also an ultramarine issue – sorry to be so insistent, but it's a local reality. The autonomy of these territories rests on their ability to be self-sufficient in food, thus producing a variety of food. In the face of the risks associated with the introduction of living modified organisms, the Protocol first establishes a principle close to "polluter pays", providing that States Parties require operators to apply measures to respond to damage or risk of damage. The responsibility for the damage therefore rests with the exporting State, not with the importing State – this principle has been the subject of lengthy negotiations. This is a faultless responsibility. Second, the protocol aims to facilitate the safe transfer and use of VMOs, in order to prevent and redress damage resulting from the transboundary movement of other living modified organisms. The UDI and independent group therefore fully supports this proposal for ratification, but would like to make a few comments, some of which have already been mentioned, on the real scope of this agreement. First, the requirements of this Additional Protocol have already been introduced into Community law by the 2004 Directive on Environmental Liability, which was transposed into our Environmental Code in 2013. It therefore has no scope for agricultural trade with our main European partners. On the other hand – this is my second point – the major exporting countries of OMV in France and Europe such as the United States, Canada or Argentina are not parties to the agreement, as you said, Madam Chair of the Commission. Recall that the United States alone cultivates GMOs on 74 million hectares, more than twice the agricultural area cultivated in France, and Argentina 24 million. Thirdly, it might be thought that France is at low risk of the damage covered by the protocol, since GMO crops are not allowed on its territory. However, in reality, it imports 4 million tonnes of transgenic plants per year – especially for animal feed and the agri-food industry – as potential risk factors. Similarly, in ultramarine territories, GMO monitoring must be more proactive. It is a real subject on these territories, which, however, participate in the first place in the extraordinary biodiversity of France. France's participation in the Cartagena club therefore makes sense. That is why the elected members of the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of this text without reservation, demonstrating their willingness to move forward on biosafety and biodiversity conservation work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u78	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u79	The case is heard: it is a good protocol, and we will all approve it. Without going further into its content, which has already been very detailed, I shall share some thoughts which the situation suggests to us. First of all, it took time, so say! The Cartagena Protocol dates back to 2000, the conclusion of the 2010 Additional Protocol, and is subject to our ratification in 2019. Secondly, Europe already applies the rules laid down in this protocol, and the French are even more advanced. It is therefore all right from this point of view, but France must ratify it, because it can be understood that if many countries ratify it, this norm will eventually be imposed on others. [[Smile]] Let us, however, wish not to be naive in this matter: we sometimes sign many protocols and agreements before we find out that the other signatories do not apply them, which makes us almost prefer those who do not sign anything and do so only at their head, in the kind of United States of America, which totally disregard all the rules, those such as those of the International Labour Organization. The Brazilians, for their part, have signed the Cartagena Protocol, but no doubt as they sign greeting cards every year: they take absolutely no account of it. This is not nothing, given their share in the production of GMOs. That is what we need to talk about: the more GMOs there are, the more they will be, because it is an incentive for the massive use of pesticides and products that destroy other plants. So they lead into a kind of infernal spiral. Monsanto has fully understood this since this company produces both the GMOs and the products that are released on the GMO crops to exterminate all the others. It was bought by Bayer, a European company. However, it is right to ask European companies, particularly in Bayer, to apply the protocols signed by Europe. Still Bayer would have to survive his adventurous purchase from Monsanto, since Monsanto was condemned by the courts on several occasions because of the use of Roundup and other pesticides of the same nature, of extreme gravity. For my part, there is no need to say that I wish Bayer's bankruptcy, for historical reasons and for his irresponsibility; I believe in fact that the larger a company, the greater its influence in the world, and the greater its responsibility: but it has not yet assumed it. GMOs of this nature do not simply encourage the growing use of pesticides: they exterminate not only other plants but also all biodiversity. Thus, the reduction in manual work and the efforts to be made are always welcome. In fact, everything else is dead, including animal biodiversity and the first links in the food chain, which feed, for example, birds. There is therefore a direct relationship between pesticide use and the disappearance of birds!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u80	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u81	I have often been criticized for my archaism – it is curious, for a man who is part of the tradition of the humanism of the Enlightenment – by retorting that cultures have been changed from time to time. Certainly, but in the long run, so that human beings have been able to verify the effects of these changes and have adapted or disappeared! Let's remember that not everyone came out unharmed from crop changes! Moreover, maps of population migration since deep ages in Europe show that, in a number of countries, diseases are directly related to the consumption of products that have never been assimilated by the populations concerned. I will not insist on the tragic example of alcohol: in some areas people die in the first gram of alcohol absorbed. In Europe, certain flours, milk or other products still cause diseases in pockets of people who cannot assimilate them. Therefore, it is futile to claim that the modification of a culture is an innocent act from which everyone comes out unharmed. No, that's not true: it always has consequences and it causes diseases. Today, for example, gluten allergies are the direct result of selections made on flour products. But let's go back to the protocol we're dealing with this morning. The danger is that Europe is totally dependent on imports of soybeans. Of the 33 million tonnes of this plant we consume every year – that's a lot – 96% come from outside and 90% are used for animal production. If we import soybeans, it is because it is the only agricultural production that has not been included in the protectionist measures of the CAP – the common agricultural policy – initial. It was an American requirement. Soya is the only crop for which we have never managed to float and be self-sufficient. This also demonstrates the value of protectionism such as the CAP, which has enabled Europe to become self-sufficient in less than 30 years in the food field, except for soybeans. And why do we consume soy? This is the most absurd protein processing technique that can be imagined, since it is a matter of transforming a plant protein contained in soya to produce an animal protein, you see, with a decreasing yield: instead of producing 1 gram of animal protein per 1 gram of vegetable protein, one undergoes a terrible rate of yield, in the order of 50%, that is, 2 grams of vegetable protein are necessary to produce 1 gram of animal protein. This absurd practice is linked to our consumption patterns. The production of meat proteins for livestock feed will one day have to be stopped. It'll take time. This does not mean that we will never again breed or produce meat – please, let us keep cartoons every time someone puts forward an idea that seems a little avant-garde at the moment, while it will become banal afterwards! Our compatriots have to think, on the one hand, that we can consume less protein and, on the other hand, that the latter must be more plant than today, all in favour of better quality farming. You must have guessed that I was going to talk about the agreement with MERCOSUR, the South American Common Market. The European Union is in the process of reaching agreement with Brazil and Argentina, two countries that are friends of France – this is not at issue – but which produce dizzying quantities of soybeans, which are heavily treated with pesticides and genetically modified, which we import. Do you have any idea what's going on? In both countries, 95% of soybeans are genetically modified. In Brazil, 200 times more glyphosate is used to treat soybean crops than the limit set by Europe – I am talking about a limit and not a ban. Brazil and Argentina are members of MERCOSUR, and both countries have signed the free trade agreement. Argentina uses 400 million litres of glyphosate per year. In absolute terms, this figure does not mean anything, but it amounts to 10 liters per Argentine. In Europe and France, when testing contaminated people, 0.1 to 4 nanograms of this product per millilitre of urine are found. Argentinean Senator Fernando Solanas performed this test on himself several times: he found 40 nanograms of glyphosate per millilitre of urine. Indeed, like all Argentines, he eats meat, which comes from soy-fed animals, which is genetically modified, and in the end it is found in the human body. This will affect, in unknown proportions, the long chain of generations. There is no doubt that one day there will be a link between the decline in sperm quality and population decline, on the one hand, and consumption of sperm products, on the other. It can be said that humanity is committing suicide through the use of methods that have no justification other than economic efficiency and that no one has ever really been able to demonstrate that, at the end of the day, they do not have more costs than benefits for society! We've already missed the check twice. When the Free Trade Agreement with Canada was signed, it was not enforced. When Japan signed the free trade agreement, which applies to a third of the world economy, it was also not imposed on it the observance of this protocol or even the protection of the poor whales, who could have been saved at the same time. There, we are in the process of reaching an agreement with MERCOSUR, and we still do not impose anything. [[Christian Hutin applauds]] I shall, however, vote with both hands for the ratification of this text, because it can now serve as a legal basis for refusing the import of products imported from Brazil and Argentina, since the animals from which they are derived have been fed with glyphosate-treated soybeans. In other words, the ratification of the protocol will allow us to oppose legally the application of the free trade agreement with MERCOSUR.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u82	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u83	This additional protocol deals with the liability and redress of biodiversity damage related to the transboundary movement of living modified organisms, VMOs. VMOs are genetically modified seeds, plants or cuttings, animals or micro-organisms that can reproduce and spread in the environment. This category is more restricted than that of genetically modified organisms because it excludes anything derived from living, i.e. manufactured products such as flour or cooked dishes. Thus, transgenic corn is a VMO, but when processed into flour, it becomes a GMO. The main objective of this additional protocol is to require States to compel operators handling VMOs on their territory to take action, i.e. prevention and redress in the event of biodiversity damage. It also establishes a legally binding mechanism of administrative liability for proven or imminent damage related to VMOs. This polluter pays scheme is interesting in that it helps to protect biodiversity. Communist deputies have always defended this system because it is the most just. This is a very small gesture towards our planet, which is currently experiencing a massive collapse during the lifetime of capitalism; It's a small step, but it's important. It was regrettable, however, that the concept of damage was limited, while States parties retained considerable flexibility to define liability and reparation regimes. It was also regrettable that some States, which wished to go further by providing for binding mechanisms of financial security and civil liability, had not been heard in the negotiations. This protocol therefore remains unclear as to how administrative responsibilities are to be charged. The same question arises with regard to the involuntary importation of invasive plant or animal species: who is responsible? What level? If we find the culprit, how can we make him pay for the damage and what damage does he charge? Let's imagine that we would find the company responsible for the arrival of Asian hornets in Europe: should we charge it all the costs associated with the eradication of nests? This is a fundamental question because, with the intensification of world trade, the movements of species, whether they be MVOs or not, are increasing and creating risks. France has completely interrupted the cultivation of OVM since 2008 and the experiments in the field since 2013, the question of biodiversity damage in connection with the OVM arises only at its borders, especially in ports, where the majority of imported goods are transported. Let us pay tribute, in passing, to all those who have contributed to the debate on GMOs, such as voluntary mowers and investigative journalists. They played a real role as whistleblowers; We hope that tomorrow, despite the law on the protection of business secrecy, among other things, it will still be possible to work on these issues. Let us return to the port problem: the risk is linked to the functioning of our exchanges. In Le Havre, for example – my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq is following the case – only 0.5% of the 2.5 million containers unloaded each year are checked, due to lack of resources and the need to go fast. The procedures will never achieve the zero risk of illegal import of MVOs, but they could be more stringent if there were more customs officers. Moreover, the diversity of fines and container control procedures in European ports, which helps to favour the least-called ports on these issues, is a matter of debate. Harmonisation at European level would be highly desirable. That is why it is important to ratify the Additional Protocol on Liability and Reparation for the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, which will be beneficial at the international level. But then, why was France so slow to ratify it? This slowness is absolutely incredible. With fourteen other countries, France signed this additional protocol on 11 May 2011 in New York. Since then, only three of the fifteen States have not yet ratified it; all the others have done so within three years of signing. Why did we wait so long? We can understand that it takes time to prepare these texts, but it is not serious to wait more than eight years, especially since the protocol entered into force on 5 March 2018, since forty countries had ratified it at that time. France has not even been among the countries that have contributed to this success. It is a shame: it does not show the best face of a dynamic and voluntary democracy on the issue of biodiversity. Thus, eight years and two months later, the National Assembly will finally ratify the Additional Protocol. This slow pace will at least have allowed France to create a regulation in accordance with this protocol, and even beyond. Our regulation on GMOs is indeed one of the most demanding in the world: therefore, no change will be necessary to ensure that our law complies with the protocol. That is another reason that could have led us to ratify the text much faster. But it is better late than never, because this text is symbolically important to recall that France maintains its precautionary principle towards living modified organisms. It must be recalled that the import of OVM is already a reality in Europe. According to the European Commission's estimates, over the period 2013-2015, 85% of the soybean imported by the European Union, or 30 million tonnes, was OVM soybean. France imports about 4 million tonnes of transgenic plants per year, including US soybeans, feed maize and rapeseed for processing. Thus, we refuse to produce these foodstuffs, but their import threatens our biodiversity and certainly misleads already fragile agricultural sectors. This brings us to the main grievance that can be made about this protocol: it is not signed by the world's largest producers and exporters of MVOs. A great deal of work remains to be done to ensure that the largest producers of MVOs in the United States, Brazil, Argentina and Canada become parties to the Additional Protocol. The National Assembly as a whole should regret the absence of these States among the signatories of the text. In this capacity, the Communist deputies encourage the Quai d'Orsay to step up its efforts to make these countries and their large companies producing OVM more coerced. In addition to this ratification, the National Assembly could request that France create the conditions for all its economic partners to be obliged to sign this protocol in order to do business with it. We are indeed embarking on an extremely paradoxical process. We ratify this text the day after the presentation in Council of Ministers of the bill authorizing the ratification of CETA – the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada – and at a time when the majority, hand in hand with the European Union, are in turn ratifying free trade treaties with all the world's largest GMO producers:...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u84	With MERCOSUR! That's scary!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u85	...Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and Argentina within MERCOSUR, Japan and the United States! We therefore encourage trade with countries that do not share our philosophy about the precautionary principle,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u87	... thus flouting our ecological commitments in relation to biodiversity. That is extremely regrettable. Communist MEPs are satisfied with the ratification of this protocol by France, but such hypocrisy cannot be agreed. This text aims to raise international food safety standards – I repeat, the GDR Group welcomes this progress – but it is far too timid and carries the stigma of pro-GMO lobbies and agro-industry that have limited its scope. [[Christian Hutin applauds]] For all these reasons, we will abstain. However, we hope that the majority will eventually understand that it is totally inconsistent to ratify this text today and CETA in two weeks' time, and that it would be preferable to vote only on texts aimed at preserving our planet instead of ruining it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u88	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u89	Everything or almost everything has been said; It is difficult to speak after so many brilliant presentations on a subject that was not obvious at first sight. I too, after Mr Hutin, would like to thank you, Madam Chairman of the Committee, for giving the Committee on Foreign Affairs the opportunity to vote on a text of such importance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u91	... to which the entire national representation must be associated, because, despite its somewhat obscure title, it deals with a highly important subject. [[Smile]] [[Smile]] The playwright Émile Fabre said that the title was "the point of view where one puts the audience to judge the work". In this case, judging by the title of the "Bill authorizing the ratification of the Additional Protocol of Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur on Liability and Reparation for the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety" – I take my breath back –, it must be noted that the legislator has nothing of a dramatic author, even though I know the temptation that some may yield to blurring the lines... I confess, for my part, that my lines have been blurred: Nagoya and Kuala Lumpur, this is my home, it will not have escaped you! So I thought we were going to talk about my riding and it was great... Not at all: it's about the environment and biodiversity! The purpose of this text is therefore to authorize the ratification of the Additional Protocol, the last stone brought to a building that we have already mentioned on several occasions. I would point out to those for whom these issues may not be familiar that the concept of "living modified organisms" is very important: it is a small subset of genetically modified organisms, which by their nature may represent risks to biodiversity. These risks are fully accepted, as recalled by the Convention on Biological Diversity adopted in Rio in 1992. The Cartagena Protocol, which entered into force in 2003, provided a first concrete response, based on the precautionary and preventive principles to which France refers. It lays down international rules – this explains why it is submitted to our committee – with the aim of preventing damage to this biodiversity caused by the crossing of borders by living modified organisms. It is therefore the first international environmental agreement on genetically modified organisms. It is also one of the few instruments of international law that can be opposed to WTO rules – the World Trade Organisation – with regard to limiting the import into a country of genetically modified species, which could therefore pose ecological problems. Its application is certainly not mandatory, but it remains enforceable, which is extremely important, even though, as was pointed out earlier – and I will come back to it – some countries have not chosen to ratify it. This additional protocol, set up in Nagoya and Kuala Lumpur, was finally adopted, as was recalled, ten years later – ten years, that it is long!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u92	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u93	It establishes a wide range of very practical rules and administrative procedures for liability and compensation for damage resulting from such movements. That clarification, should we allow the ratification of this protocol? Yes: three times, ten times yes! First, French law is in line with the stipulations it provides for, following the transposition into the Environmental Code of the 2004 European Directive on Environmental Liability, thanks also to the 2016 law for the reconquest of diversity, which itself created a new action for compensation for ecological damage. Secondly, this protocol represents a step forward in the prevention of biosafety, which France can promote in the coming international timeframes, in the face of large exporters of living modified organisms such as Canada or the United States, which, unfortunately, are not yet parties to it. Finally, on a more political level, count on the pressure of the public opinion that we all represent here towards countries that refuse to sign this protocol and which could, one day, perhaps finally resolve it, for the security of our planet. I also know how much the President of the Republic can be an engine to shake rigid positions. I therefore count on him: France, by his voice, but also, I know, by that of the French representatives in this Chamber – including those who are not here this morning –...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u94	The absent people are always wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u95	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM and SOC groups]] ...has the ambition to make a firm speech in favour of biodiversity. This text helps to strengthen it, and we would be happy to adopt it unanimously, which seems to have been achieved; It's great news for our children. The La République group will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u96	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u98	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u99	This additional protocol represents a step forward in the prevention of biosafety and the establishment of an international liability regime for living modified organisms, VMOs. To re-emphasize this text, it is an additional protocol to the Cartagena Protocol on the prevention of biological risks, which addressed the shortcomings of the Convention on Biological Diversity adopted in Rio in 1992. The Cartagena Protocol called for a process to develop appropriate international rules and procedures on liability and compensation for damage resulting from transboundary movements of living modified organisms. It is therefore necessary as the outcome of this process, its consecration. In substance, it applies only to living modified organisms, a category of GMOs intended to be introduced directly into the environment and likely to proliferate, such as seeds, cutting plants, animals and micro-organisms. The Cartagena protocol, for its part, had the benefit of identifying the risks associated with the use of LMOs, including the dissemination of modified genes that could have an impact on non-target organisms and, more broadly, the ecosystem as a whole. These are the risks that we are being asked to avoid today. We must ratify this protocol to make France an example to follow. Indeed, this instrument will also serve as an international reference for countries in terms of liability and compensation for damage related to the use of MVOs. Of course, the cultivation of OVM is prohibited in France and the import of transgenic plants is mainly intended for animal feed. France is therefore not exposed to the damage covered by the protocol. In our territory, damage could only occur under certain specific circumstances, including transportation or accidental or fraudulent contamination of imported seed. However, these cases must be protected: let us now be proactive. With this protocol, in the event of proven damage or even the likelihood of damage occurring, States Parties should require operators to inform the competent authority to take appropriate action to restore biodiversity. The competent authority has an obligation to establish the causal link between the activity and the damage. It may also take appropriate intervention measures, in particular if the operator refrains from doing so, and recover costs from the operator. In the alternative, States parties are also permitted to apply their domestic law. Thus, in France, we will apply the liability rules already in force, especially since the law of 2016 for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes has allowed a new opening framework for the compensation of ecological damage. French law is therefore in accordance with the provisions of this Protocol, which was approved by the European Union in March 2013. A few days ago, we were studying the energy and climate bill. Today, we ask you to go even further by taking one more step towards the conservation of biodiversity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and SOC groups]] It is for these reasons that I invite you to pass this bill, which we are already implementing more or less.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u101	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u102	As my colleagues have pointed out, this morning we have come to express our views on the ratification of the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol on Liability and Reparation for the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, adopted on 15 October 2010. The Cartagena Protocol, which aims to protect biological diversity from the potential risks posed by living modified organisms resulting from modern biotechnology, was adopted in Montreal on January 29, 2000 and entered into force on September 11, 2003. It is therefore an additional instrument to the Convention on Biological Diversity. While the issues of liability and reparation for damage caused by transboundary movements of MVOs were discussed under the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, the details of a reparation regime could not be fully resolved within the time allowed for the preparation of this protocol, and a negotiating clause was therefore included in the final text for this purpose. Article 27 of the Cartagena Protocol provides for a process to be initiated to develop appropriate international procedural rules on liability and compensation for damage resulting from transboundary movements of living modified organisms. This is the meaning of this additional protocol of Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur, subject to ratification. The Cartagena Protocol addresses the rules that apply to the cross-border movement of living modified organisms and contributes to the consumption and sustainable use of biological diversity, while maintaining an interest in the safety and service of human health. The transfer of living modified organisms had to be regulated, in order to protect us from any adverse effects on biodiversity. The adoption of the Protocol has thus played an important role as a precedent in the context of environmental responsibility at the international level, since so far there have been very few legally binding international instruments which define a system of liability without fault. However, while some countries wished to go further with a system of binding civil liability, the compromise was found around a binding administrative approach linked to the possibility for each party to create a civil liability mechanism, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. The adoption of this text makes it possible to establish an international reference on which many countries rely to establish their own regulations, which can then be imposed on any MVO present in their territory. The national provisions establishing this mechanism for the prevention and redress of certain environmental damage are set out in Title VI of Book I of the Environmental Code. Their objective, consistent with that of the Additional Protocol, is explained in Article L. 160, paragraph 114. Like the directive, the scope of French legislation is much broader than that of the Additional Protocol, since it covers the different dimensions of biological diversity, not limited to activities involving VMOs. Since the French scheme is therefore in conformity with the provisions introduced by the Additional Protocol, the latter's ratification will have no economic or financial impact on France. On the other hand, by encouraging other parties to align their internal rules with the provisions of this Protocol, it contributes to harmonising the level of requirements for operators responsible for the dissemination of organisms and to reducing divergences of approach between the European Union and third countries. Within the European Union, the requirements of the Additional Protocol are already met by the provisions of the European Directive 2004/ 35/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on environmental liability with regard to prevention and redress, including a much wider scope, taking into account many activities which may have an impact on the environment. The European Union has been a party to the Protocol since 21 March 2013. France signed it on 11 May 2011, as my colleagues said, but its ratification did not appear to be a priority. Indeed, the existence of a national mechanism and a Community mechanism already covering the obligations of the Protocol, as well as the desire of France, successfully implemented since 2008, to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs on its territory limits, in fact, the risks associated with these GMOs to biological diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u104	I will conclude by stressing that, by complementing, as envisaged, the Cartagena Protocol, the Nagoya Protocol submitted to our ratification is therefore, in the first place, aimed at protecting States that have not developed binding financial tools to ensure biodiversity and biosecurity on their territory, in particular developing countries. The Protocol therefore adds a reference to the international regimes governing liability for damage to biodiversity caused by transboundaryly moved GMOs and MVOs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, MODEM and SOC groups]] By ratifying this protocol, we guarantee near-optimal security at the international level and the extension of the preservation of the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u105	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u106	It is no less than the French and European ambition to protect biodiversity that the National Assembly is called upon to take a decision this morning. Behind this additional protocol is indeed raised the essential issue of liability and reparation for damage to biodiversity resulting from the risk of the spread of living modified organisms – which are nothing but a category of GMOs – which we cannot fully take into account. Our group is fully aware of the progress made in reaching this text. In international matters, the negotiation of agreements is often referred to as "the diplomacy of the coffee machine". For it is there, around a café, outside the rooms where the official negotiations take place, that the States try to agree on provisions that will satisfy their national interests. And it took coffees and hours of negotiation to reach the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Additional Protocol on Liability and Reparation for the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety! This additional protocol is the result of a compromise between particularly divergent interests. Its negotiating process, provided for in Article 27 of the Cartagena Protocol, was initiated in 2004. On that occasion, an ad hoc working group was formed, bringing together numerous legal and technical experts in the field of liability and reparation. Together, they worked for six long and difficult years on the drafting of this text. Many stumbling blocks had to be overcome, such as the legal nature of the instrument aimed at involving the liability of the perpetrators of damage caused by transboundary movements of MVOs. Some countries wanted to limit themselves to guidelines; However, we all know that the guidelines unfortunately do not weigh heavily on economic interests. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore welcomes the choice to agree on a binding instrument, which is certainly a precedent for international environmental liability. To date, there have been very few legally binding international instruments defining such a system of faultless liability. However, the absence of some of the largest exporting countries of MVOs – such as the United States, with its 75 million hectares of MVO crops, or Canada and Argentina, which are not parties to the Cartagena Protocol – considerably weakens the scope of the text. Admittedly, it has the merit of establishing a kind of international reference, on which countries can rely to establish their own regulations, by imposing its application on any VMO present in their territory. However, without the commitment of the major exporting countries, what real impact can the Cartagena Protocol and its Additional Protocol have? How can credible, universally accepted international rules be established to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, taking into account the risks to human health, in the absence of key biosafety stakeholders? Given the "pacta sunt servanda" rule and the sovereignty of States on the international stage, we know that large exporting countries will not be subject to these rules. The Cartagena Agreement and its Additional Protocol therefore include those States which have signed them in an asymmetrical relationship with non-signatory countries guided more by economic interests than by environmental and health considerations. As the conclusion of the agreement between the European Union and MERCOSUR raises serious concerns and our Assembly is about to vote on the ratification of CETA on 17 July, we must have these considerations in mind more than ever. As I was able to point out, on behalf of my group, during the examination of the bill in committee, the scope of the additional protocol seems to be insufficient in view of the considerable issues raised by the following questions, which are, of course, basic, but essential: what are we producing? What do we import? How should we do it, with what quality, with what safety? The youth, who manifest and mobilize on the issue of climate, awaits answers to these questions, which the text clearly does not bring. The seven years that it took to reach the required number of ratifications for its entry into force demonstrate its weakness. In the face of an agreement that is more symbolic than effective and in the face of the long-standing nature of the proposed provisions – they were drawn up fifteen years ago – the timidity of the States is understood. Moreover, France, despite signing this additional protocol in 2011, had never considered its ratification a priority; It must be admitted that this is partly due to the fact that we are rather at the forefront of the matter, which has resulted in the adoption of national and Community provisions already covering the obligations laid down. Together with my colleagues in the Libertés et territoires Group, we are deeply committed to promoting growth that respects people, ecosystems and natural resources. We are defending an energy transition from the territories. We are very sensitive to the protection of biological diversity and the potential risks associated with the use of living modified organisms, LMOs. However, this protection must take account of current environmental, health, economic and social issues. But the problems have worsened since the adoption of the Cartagena Protocol twenty years ago – almost an eternity, in this particular case. Environmental damage did not wait until the number of signatures required for the additional protocol to enter into force. We therefore consider that an adjustment is necessary to take account of the biotechnological developments of recent years and the grip of the producers of OVM and seed producers, these industrial giants who control plantations and even the placings on the market, often going so far as to force African farmers to buy them seeds, to the detriment of an inclusive and sustainable agriculture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u107	That's right! This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u108	We doubt the effectiveness of the additional protocol on these actors, whose considerations are guided only by profit.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u109	That's no reason not to adopt it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u110	At the same time, the issue of controls is essential in order to avoid impunity. However, this text does not really dwell on it. What about the effectiveness of controls and their operability? For example, within the European Union, port rules are not harmonised, whether for the detection of illegal MVOs or even for fines. I would remind you that Portugal and even Spain, with which we have a common border, do not apply the same protection as ours. Madam President of the Committee, you yourself pointed out in committee the lack of harmonisation between European ports as regards controls. With the ratification of the Additional Protocol 15 years after the start of its negotiation process, the question arises of our responsibility as legislators with regard to provisions which are certainly no longer adapted to the health, food and environmental challenges of society. For our part, we believe that we must stop lying and act as if, by approving such a protocol, we were to lay the foundation stone of a virtuous, collectively designed building. Around us, everything shows us the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u111	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u112	Large states, often despicable of the environment, are absent. There is a lack of human and financial resources to ensure the customs control of our ports. The too wide margin of discretion left to States to measure damages, reparations and responsibilities will create disparities that will penalize the most virtuous countries, starting with the signatories of the Additional Protocol. Should we ban ourselves from being virtuous by refusing to ratify it? No one's thinking about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u113	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] However, by ratifying it, we will have only given us a good conscience. A large majority of Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group consider that it would be our responsibility not to approve an inadequate text for today's environmental and social emergencies and for tomorrow's challenges. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u115	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-07-04-E1005.u116	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill to combat hate on the Internet. The meeting is adjourned.
