ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u1	The next item is the question to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u2	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u3	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group. – Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, you missed the catch-up session of the Congress of Mayors that the President of the Republic offered himself yesterday with Norman mayors sorted out on the track: the first twenty suggested questions, the first ranks that applaud the presidential responses in cadence, an atmosphere "salmon of mayors" that occupies the chains continuously, a president La Palice who will repeat: "I love proximity. Tomorrow it will be beautiful, if it does not rain, perhaps" and, let us be fair, some real questions about the situation of abandonment of the communes. No one is fooled by the "com' plan" of this launch of the big debate on the "school of management" mode: we promise to say everything, except that the referee bears the color of the government team and that it plays at home. But the real subject is that yesterday we had to leave his yellow jersey in the locker room, put in the trunks the vests of anger under penalty of a fine of 135 euros – the price of a golden vest. The real subject of this debate is that there was no microphone for France that wants to live from its work, that calls for wage increases, that wants to be able to live from its retirement pension without being considered a golden generation, that waits for care to be taken of its hospitals, its courts, and that is fed up with a democracy where the President decides everything and nothing. On this subject, you don't "fuck" and it's getting weird on the street. You will not answer this by trying to turn mayors into shields of your politics. Mayors are here to protect the population, not the President. You will not answer it if there is no taboo question, but answers that are on the purchasing power or on the "crazy money" to take where it is. You will not answer this by proclaiming "it is us or chaos." We warn you against the temptation to make this debate a springboard to speed up your bad liberal policy, to hit harder by leaving aside the causes of chaos: fiscal injustice, social injustice, territorial injustice. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR Group and on a few benches of the LR Group, as well as among non-attached Members]] Prime Minister, we don't take a roundabout backwards, even at 80 kilometres an hour. Do you really want to appease the Republic? If so, what are your concrete answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u4	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u5	Mr. Member of Parliament, you mention your disappointment...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u6	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u7	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...that the meeting that was held yesterday took place in the conditions that we all noticed: six and a half hours of debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u8	Castro did better!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u9	... with mayors of all political families, who were able to ask all the questions, expressing their desire to discuss, debate and show a very great sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u10	It's no longer "squeeze your mayor," apparently!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u11	I imagine, honourable Member, that you do not criticise these mayors, nor their comments, nor their attitude towards the President of the Republic. They had the will to exchange, to say what they felt about the situation in their commune, in our country. They were waiting for answers from the President. I do not have the memory, Mr. MP – but perhaps my memory is failing – of such an exercise, as long, as direct, and "on-line".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u12	Not to say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I think, Mr President, that our fellow citizens have found that there is a real exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u14	Get up, the Playmobils!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u15	This was the first occurrence of a two-month debate. Not all the meetings that will be held throughout France will take this form, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u16	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The President of the Republic will not always be present. There will be other French than mayors, but finally, ladies and gentlemen, if we criticize the fact that mayors speak and the President of the Republic answers them, where are we going in this assembly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u18	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u19	There will be a lot of very different meetings. Some will have the same desire to discuss and the same respect, others may be more toned or even more tense. When we engage in a public debate, we know that it can take very different tones. The important thing, honourable Member, is that the debate should take place. He started yesterday. We have developed a whole series of instruments that the French will seize. All French people, regardless of their age, regardless of their geographical or professional situation, will express themselves. We believe in it. The President of the Republic said yesterday in very clear terms that many subjects were on the table and that the French could express themselves in the most free way possible. Don't try, Member – I know you enough to know that this is not your state of mind – to cast the discredit on an exchange that has been of an extremely special nature...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u20	Extremely organized!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u21	... and, I think, quite frankly, to the honor of our democracy: serious, true in some respects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u22	In some respects only!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I'm not saying it, but the mayors who were here yesterday. You who are elected from this region and who know them as well as I do, you know very well that not all of them were so much in favour of the Government or the President of the Republic. However, they have all been extremely sensitive to the duration, tone and intensity of the exchange. For my part, I wanted to thank them, because this exchange has been useful, as will all those who will be taking place in this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u24	Mrs. Elizabeth Toutut-Picard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u25	Mr Minister responsible for territorial authorities, the President of the Republic yesterday, in the department of Eure, launched the great national debate by responding very long and without taboo to the arrests of the 600 mayors who came to talk with him. These elected representatives, mostly from rural communities, showed a clear desire for dialogue and mutual trust. Through their freedom of tone and their sense of public good, they have demonstrated their commitment to our institutions and representative democracy. These lengthy exchanges highlighted the great concern of the mayors about the future of public services in the territories, a major subject on which decisions will have to be taken at the end of the major national debate. Indeed, it is no longer tolerable to see the disappearance of public services in certain rural areas or parts of our country. In consultation with local elected representatives, new, innovative solutions that are closer to the inhabitants will have to be proposed. This is the meaning of the great debate announced yesterday, which all French people can seize in villages, towns, neighbourhoods, at the initiative of mayors, elected representatives, community leaders or ordinary citizens. It is a real chance to come together to find concrete solutions to the difficulties of our compatriots and to respond to the anger of some of them. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, how do you see the role of local elected officials in mobilizing around the big debate? What initial conclusions do you draw from yesterday's meeting, particularly as regards territorial organisation, administrative simplification and access to public services?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u26	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups as well as on a few benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs Toutut-Picard, thank you for reminding you of the representative force of the mayors of France, in particular yesterday, of those of the Eure and Normandy, because there was no filter, no sorting, no word calibrated in advance. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on a few benches of the LR group]] Mr President Jacob, you who refer to Castro, I would have preferred you not to forget General de Gaulle when, in 1962, he brought together the mayors of the Doubs to carry out a similar republican exercise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u28	Comparison is not right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u29	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] However, this direct link between the mayors and the President of the Republic will continue, even if I feel that, on some benches, it is disturbing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u30	A little calm!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u31	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, in order to organise this debate, we need mayors, figures of local democracy. They are, of course, largely already mobilized with the contribution books, the complaint books. I will meet Vanik Berberian very soon to deepen the approach undertaken. Tomorrow, we will bring together the prefects in order to provide the mayors with the means to organise these debates with the associations, their fellow citizens or in their own capacity if they so wish. Moreover, the first debates will take place in a number of town halls, Madam Member of Parliament, from Friday evening and Saturday – I think, for example, the mayor of Palaiseau, to give you a concrete example. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Secondly, this debate must be useful to the mayors. The Prime Minister and Jacqueline Gourault wanted it to be possible to open a specific consultation for local elected representatives, particularly with regard to their daily lives. It is the meaning of the announcement made yesterday by the President of the Republic, who wanted to open this consultation on a possible – we will see what will result from the dialogue with all the deputies – revision of the NOTRE law, establishing a new territorial organization of the Republic, which, as we know, did not only good to our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u32	What about the national redistribution?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u33	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u34	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] Prime Minister, your great national debate began yesterday with a speech by the President of the Republic. The style exercise lasted almost seven hours and sometimes held more political meetings than a real exchange. We can only salute the talent of communicating with the President, who seeks to replay the 2017 election campaign to save his quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u35	Bad memory for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u36	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The problem is that all this masks the indigence of its action and the sad record of your Government. For more than 18 months, all economic indicators have been low: unemployment is not falling, growth is very low, debt is exploding, the deficit is growing dangerously, our trade balance is catastrophic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u37	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u38	You are unable to control public spending and you charge the bill to the middle classes of our country. That is your assessment, which you are trying to hide behind the big debate. Worse: By an attitude close to contempt and extremely unfair tax decisions, you have triggered a social crisis of unprecedented gravity. Yet none of the questions put to the French during this great debate concerns the actions of the President and the Government that have been taking place for 18 months. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My question is therefore simple: is your Government really prepared to make its own self-criticism, to question itself and, above all, to really change its attitude and action through this great debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u39	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u40	Mr Vatin, the great debate is a wonderful opportunity for democracy, as we saw yesterday during this unprecedented exchange between the President of the Republic and the mayors, who were able to ask questions on all the subjects and to which they were answered both very precisely and in an extremely sincere, honest and constructive way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u41	Is it written on the card that you're reading?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u42	This debate covers four very open topics. As you know, the Government proposes that the issue of taxation and social justice be discussed, the question of democracy and citizenship, the question of ecological and solidarity transition, and the question of the organization of the State and public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u43	What about the ISF?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u44	For two months, the debate will take place everywhere in France. This has already begun on the major national debate platform, where dozens of meeting dates are recorded. The French will gather as close as possible to the territory and discuss these issues. I myself met yesterday with two delegations of yellow vests who expressed their concerns to me. They will participate in this debate because it is important for all French people to meet again. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] Finally, the great debate will take place under conditions of neutrality, quality, guarantees of independence,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u45	It's relative...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u46	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...through the appointment of five guarantors – one by Mr. the President of the National Assembly, one by Mr. the President of the Senate, one by Mr. the President of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, and two by Mr. the President of the Republic – so that our democracy can be found for Act II of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u47	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u48	Prime Minister, local taxpayers and local elected officials don't understand the housing tax anymore. In September 2017, in front of the Congress of Mayors of France, and then on December 30, 2017, at the signing ceremony of the first five-year finance law, the President of the Republic announced the abolition of the housing tax for all taxpayers and no longer for 80% of them, as he had promised during his presidential campaign. However, conflicting announcements were made by members of the Government. Mr. Le Maire suggested on 8 January 2019 that the Government might waive the removal of the housing tax for the 20 per cent of the most affluent households. Darmanin reaffirmed on January 10 – two days later – that he was in favour of its total abolition. In January 2019, the Palais de l'Elysée announced that "the Government's position is that of a 100% abolition but we will decide to put this back on the table for the big debate." Prime Minister, my first question is quite simple: can you reassure us, and reassure the taxpayers, whether or not the total removal of the housing tax is maintained? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on several benches of the LR group]] Second question: can you confirm to local elected officials the Government's intention to compensate the communal bloc for the loss of income from the housing tax through the transfer of EUR 14 billion of the proceeds from the tax on built land? How do you intend to compensate the departments for the loss of this tax? It would appear that you have chosen a levy on the product of the generalised social contribution, the CSG. In this case, how will you compensate the social security agencies for this 14 billion loss?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u49	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u50	As you know, dear Charles de Courson, from the outset, the objectives pursued by the Government with the abolition of the housing tax are clear: we want to reduce the compulsory levies on the French without debt to future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u51	It's gone wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u52	Already, this majority decided in the 2018 finance law to restore more than 10 billion purchasing power to the French by removing the housing tax for 80% of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u53	By digging up the deficit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u54	You know that the Constitutional Council has ruled that there is no breach of equality with regard to taxation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We want this local tax system to be fairer. As you pointed out yourself in your excellent information report with Jean-Paul Mattei, the housing tax has long been challenged by many voices because it is not fair. As rental values have not been revised, it does not take into account the contributory capacity of households. I am convinced that a tax that is not fair to 80% of the French is no more fair to the remaining 20%. This is all the more true because within these 20% the situation is far from uniform: for the most part, they are middle classes to which we want to restore purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u55	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u56	That is why this item will be interesting to discuss in the context of the general debate on taxation and tax accession. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In any case, as far as local authorities are concerned, Monsieur de Courson, there will be a relief and a law of reform...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u57	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u58	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u59	Minister of Solidarity and Health, with 31,000 deaths each year in France, lung cancer is the first most deadly cancer in men and the second most fatal cancer in women. Without wanting to make morbid comparisons, this represents almost ten times the number of people killed on the roads. Last year, no fewer than 49,000 new cases were identified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u60	Increase the pack of cigarettes to 80 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u61	Your commitment to the fight against the causes of this cancer is well known and action is urgently needed to ensure that patients are treated as soon as possible. Some 30 French experts, pneumonologists and oncologists, have launched a call to generalize lung cancer screening among smokers or former smokers over the age of 50. According to their work, it is 7,500 lives that could be saved every year. This is shown by the study they conducted on more than 15,000 patients followed for nearly ten years. It was determined that a scanner can be used for all large smokers or former smokers over the age of 50 to reduce lung cancer deaths by 26% in men and 40% in women. There is therefore, Madam Minister, a real public health issue. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on a few benches of the LR group]] The department of the Somme, where my constituency is located, is the first to propose this examination thanks to a weakly irradiating scanner at the Abbeville hospital centre. Doctors associate an awareness of quitting with smoking. Why not generalize this screening device that could significantly reduce lung cancer mortality and save, you understand, thousands of lives?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u62	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u63	Mr. Demilly, thank you for focusing on this major public health issue that has been dear to my heart for many years. When I was chairing the National Cancer Institute, I wanted us to take strong action on prevention: implementing the neutral package and then increasing the price of tobacco, two provisions that led to a million fewer smokers in our country. We are in the process of winning the bet of reducing smoking in France. Beyond prevention, screening, which detects cancers at an early stage, would help to cure more patients. It is important to see what techniques could be disseminated in our country. The High Health Authority, HAS, had issued a negative opinion on generalised low-dose chest scanner screening in 2016. The large number of false positives resulted in unnecessary gestures and the examination, which must be done every year, exposes patients to ionizing radiation that induces cancers themselves. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] We look forward to the results of the NELSON study – which you mentioned – carried out at European level. We again seized the HAS to issue an opinion. It is included in its work programme released in January 2019. It should therefore decide on the advisability of generalizing this screening and lay down the conditions for ensuring that safety and quality are guaranteed to all our citizens, as it should be. The work is on its way, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u64	Mr. Richard Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LR and GDR groups]] Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, this Wednesday and until the end of February, many French companies and agricultural representatives are under discussion with the large-scale distribution in what is known as the "negotiation box". For my part, I would rather refer to the "blockbox", where employees in the large distribution sector receive premiums to buy food even less expensive than the previous year. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] [[Applause on all benches]] A few months ago, a big brand dereferenced overnight a brand produced by our French farmers, because the company refused, excuse the term, to "lower the pants". I decided to go public with a few packages of this shamefully ejected product from the shelves. Through this gesture, I wanted to be part of the continuation of the fight that many members of parliament from all political sides led during the general states of food, from Vincent Descoeur and Jean-Yves Bony to François Ruffin, including André Chassaigne, Sébastien Jumel, Nicolas Turquois, Dominique Potier, Jean-Baptiste Moreau, Thierry Benoit, Philippe Vigier and Julien Dive! We must maintain intact the state of mind of the general states of food, so that our peasants can live properly from their production and that French companies are not crushed in the negotiating boxes! [[Applause on many benches]] To Mr Michel-Édouard Leclerc, who invited the Members, a few days ago, to come and do an internship in the supermarkets, I reply that it is a high point that he would be able to make such remarks while the low prices that he practices in his supermarkets strangle French farmers! [[Vif applause on all benches. – The members of the MODEM Group and many other Members from all groups stand up and continue to applaud]] Minister, what steps do you intend to take to stop the concentration of purchasing power plants killing French agriculture and agri-food SMEs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u66	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, UDI-Agir and LT groups]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] Allow me, Mr. Ramos, on behalf of the Government, to congratulate you very warmly on the strength of your question, for involving the entire national representation and for having passed the EGALIM law – for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector – which, from this year onwards, transforms the relations between distributors and producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u68	What a trick!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u69	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In all objectivity, it should be noted that there had never been so many contracts concluded before this year between manufacturers, distributors and producers on 15 January. I have met all the purchasing power plants, all the large areas, all the industrialists, all the interbranch: there is no debate, this text has made it possible to change the situation. For the first year, thanks to the general states, farmers' and co-operatives' incomes will increase. We must all congratulate ourselves on that. We will meet in the next fifteen days, with Bruno Le Maire and Agnès Pannier-Runacher, the follow-up committee. At the beginning of February, we will ask the Ombudsman for Agricultural Trade Relations to analyse the situation. Finally, we will ask the Director General of the Competition, Consumer and Fraud Enforcement Branch to go to all major areas to check that everyone is in compliance with the order and the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u70	Piss off!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] By opening new negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, you have opened a new and wonderful phase, which will have nothing to do with the past. The negotiations will not end, as usual, at midnight minus ten, on the last day, in the parking lot of the large areas! On the contrary, they take place on the big day, in front of everyone. It is thanks to you that we are moving forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u72	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u73	Prime Minister, the birth figures published yesterday by INSEE are very worrying: last year, 12,000 fewer births were deplored; This is the fourth consecutive year of decline. By falling from 2 children to 1.87 children per woman, current fertility no longer ensures the renewal of generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u74	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u75	The natural balance of the population, the difference between births and deaths, has never been so low since the end of the Second World War. As UNAF – the National Union of Family Associations – says, families have less and less confidence in the future and their daily lives are deteriorating. That's true, since 2015, many measures have abused families. I am thinking of the violations of the family quotient and the family allowances or the reform of parental leave, decided by the previous Government. I am also thinking of the measures you have taken, by lowering the early childhood care benefit or by not revaluing family benefits in proportion to inflation. Family policy is thus called into question in its very foundations when it had reached consensus since the Liberation, considering every child as a wealth for our country. These measures, which particularly affect the middle and disadvantaged classes, will ultimately have disastrous consequences on the financing of our social protection and pensions. The adoption of certain laws in recent years has also called into question the family as the basic unit of our society. The proposals of our colleague Jean-Louis Touraine, if they were to be adopted at the next revision of the bioethics law, would go through new red lines that we will not accept. Finally, is it not revealing that at no time does the letter to the French by the President of the Republic refer to family policy or even to the family? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, when will you finally trust the families to prepare for the future of our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u76	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u77	Mr Breton, first of all, I thank you for putting the emphasis on this dramatic problem for our country, namely the reduction of the birth rate. It has been observed for four years, it is real in all the countries of Europe. Fortunately, we still have the highest birth rate in all European countries. However, there is still concern about demographics. We must make the French want to make children.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u78	This requires a family policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u79	It's not just a problem of hospitality or finance, you know that. Women, because they want to make children later, find themselves facing a decline in fertility. We must work with family associations and national representation. Many families also want to better reconcile professional and personal time, which raises the question of how to accommodate. In the COGE – the objective and management agreement – of the CNAF, the National Fund for Family Allowances, we insisted on the increase in the number of places in nurseries and the assistance to families for the care of children, because it is because of the shortcomings in this area that some women are discouraged from having more children. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, you refer to the general states of bioethics. Our joint work is just beginning. You and Jean-Louis Touraine have moderated the information mission on the revision of bioethics laws, and the resulting report will be the fifth on this subject: it will enrich our debates after that of the general states of bioethics, that of the National Ethics Advisory Committee, that of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technical Choices, and that of the Council of State. We are now opening a phase of thematic seminars with the elected representatives of the nation, you and the senators, in order to debate calmly on the four main themes – assisted medical reproduction and oocyte freezing, genetics, embryo research and filiation – in order to define the regulatory developments that our country will accept or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u80	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u81	Two and a half years ago, I witnessed the British referendum campaign on the possible exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. I still remember the promises of some British politicians. Get out of the Union? Childish! The economic consequences for the United Kingdom? Negligible! The gains lost for all the British? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Last night, British parliamentarians rejected by an overwhelming majority the withdrawal agreement negotiated by their Prime Minister, throwing a raw light on the cascade of lies and the accumulation of false information that fed the June 2016 vote. The situation is clear: an immense majority of the British parliament admits that the European Union plays a central role for the prosperity and security of the United Kingdom, but is striving to respect the legitimate decision of the British people, which in essence has serious consequences. Anglo-Saxons have a word for this kind of situation: it is a "catch 22", an intrinsic problem of logic, or the snake that bites its tail. Madam Minister for European Affairs, it is the British political leaders who are in a quagmire of conflicting injunctions, and it is up to them to propose an alternative solution to the agreement that they negotiated and then rejected. That said, this vote clearly increases the likelihood of two perfectly opposite issues. The first is a dry exit, without agreement. The second is a challenge to the Union's exit by March 2019, either by an application for an extension of the time limits provided for in Article 50 or by a unilateral UK withdrawal of its own exit request. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr. Antoine Herth also applauds]] Can you, Madam Minister, give us an update on the Government's preparations for a dry exit? Can you also tell us what the Government's attitude will be if a request for an extension of the time limits under Article 50 is made by the British?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u82	The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u83	Two and a half years ago, the British voted to leave the European Union. There is probably a lot to be said about this referendum and the massive misinformation during the election campaign to which you are referring. But finally, this vote took place. We can regret it, but we must respect it, and implement it in the most sensible, reasonable and orderly manner possible. That is what we have tried to do by negotiating and concluding a withdrawal agreement with London. This agreement is the best it can be. It is even the only possible agreement, and the discussions on it cannot be reopened. Yesterday, the British Prime Minister failed to get this agreement ratified by the House of Commons. It is now up to the British government and parliament to tell us where they want to go. What we, for our part, have to tell them is: hurry up. There are no 36 solutions for this; In reality, there are only three of them: if one wants an orderly withdrawal, it is the agreement that is on the table; Otherwise, it won't agree at all, or even, not with Brexit. You're referring to the assumption of a postponement. It's just a hypothesis, and she asks questions: for how long, and for what? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, it is perfectly possible that there is no agreement at all. We are preparing for this, with the help of Parliament, which I thank, and in particular you, Mr President, who have been rapporteur of the special committee. We will be ready, to protect our compatriots, to protect the British who live on our soil and who are welcome, and to protect our businesses. Whatever the scenarios, we'll be ready.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u84	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u85	My question is addressed to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and concerns the serious difficulties facing our small towns and their small businesses. Of course, when we were in the government, our actions were not perfect, but everything that was good, you threw it away: the end of the central-bourg contracts, the expiry of rural contracts, the abolition of the FISAC, the intervention fund for services, crafts and commerce, the weakening of commercial and economic development tools and networks, such as the CCI network, chambers of commerce and industry, employment houses, and I pass by... As well as the medium-sized cities, our small cities, those with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, need to be accompanied to improve the business atmosphere and offer the first levels of service. The "Cœur de ville" scheme must therefore be extended to small towns, with funds specifically allocated to them. There's an emergency. Are you aware of the cumulative difficulties of our small businesses? Or are you blinded by your digital society at all and your metropolization logics? Lack of purchasing power, siphoning of customers by the large distribution more or less close, explosion of e-commerce, sometimes poorly adapted commercial surfaces: our small shops can no longer. Yet it is the life and the dynamics of our rural territories. Don't be a fool, don't be a fool! Act quickly, we await your proposals: your proposals to reduce fixed loads, now disproportionate to the density of the barge areas; your proposals to help our small towns support their businesses; your proposals to accompany solutions of the future, such as "unified trade", for example, by finding solutions to bring our small businesses closer to your digital platforms. [[Applause on several SOC and GDR benches]] It's time to move to a higher speed, and that's what's happening. So get out of the way, damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u86	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u87	[[Exclaims on the SOC and GDR panels]] As you know, the Government has made the attractiveness of small and medium-sized cities one of the central areas of its land-use planning efforts. For yes, Mr Bricout, we are aware that these small towns have often been forgotten from previous spatial planning policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u88	It's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u89	This has had the effect of weakening the network of intermediate cities, some of which have seen their population decline at the same rate as essential services and shops disappear for the benefit of large areas. To combat this, the Government launched, almost a year ago, the Action Cœur de Ville plan, which, as you know, mobilises €5 billion to renovate housing, shops, public spaces, and develop new services. Since its inception, 1,600 projects have been supported and are in the process of being deployed. But we had to go further – I am coming, Mr Bricout – with concrete measures. You know that a number of decisions have been taken within the framework of the ELAN law: it is the whole meaning of the operations of revitalization of the territory, the famous ORTs, provided for by this law, which allow a permit to develop multi-sites, a right of reinforced urban preemption, a right of preemption on artisanal commercial funds, and commercial leases to facilitate the installation of new commercial and craft activities in small towns. These tools will make it possible to build a new specific approach in favour of the city centres which have similar concerns to those of the municipalities which were chosen by the city centre action plan. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Government fully shares your concern, Mr. Deputy. That is why we are actually going to put in place a plan for small towns, including restructuring for housing and trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u90	Mr Eric Bothorel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u91	Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to associate my colleague Marie-Pierre Rixain with my question. News regularly reminds us of the urgent need to secure our digital sovereignty. The President of the Republic still referred to it when, on 12 November, he announced France's support for the Paris call for trust and security in cyberspace. The nature of the cyberattacks that we are experiencing can lead to a paralysis of the functioning of our strategic security services, our businesses or our public services. In this area, the mastery of our infrastructure choices and the manufacture of electronic components are fundamental elements. Moreover, we cannot escape the debate on the place taken by US and Chinese companies in these markets. In Europe, we are fortunate in terms of infrastructure to own two international companies: Ericsson and Nokia. Yesterday, Nokia announced a new global downsizing plan, including its two French sites in Lannion and Saclay. The plan mainly concerns support functions. A total of 460 posts will be abolished by 2020. I would like to recall that Lannion, the historic birthplace of telecoms now at the forefront of digital and photonics issues, has already suffered particularly during the group's previous social plans. However, when a major in our ecosystem sneezes, it is not uncommon for others to sneeze right after. Minister, we are all interested in Nokia's presence in the territory of Lannion, and I would like to pay tribute here to the expertise of our engineers on 5G and cybersecurity. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So how does the Government, sensitive to the issues of sovereignty and digital independence, react to this decision of a major European equipment manufacturer? How does he intend to act to ensure the sustainability of his French sites? Through these questions, I express the concerns of employees and staff representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u92	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u93	Mr Bothorel, I recall that Nokia, which employs 4000 employees in France, has announced, as part of a global plan, the elimination of 460 jobs over two years in France. Secretary of State Agnès Pannier-Runacher met with Nokia's management; I will see Nokia's president myself in a few days, to remind him of the three lines on which we agreed: first, no forced departure among these 460 jobs; Second, no site closure; third, probably the most important, maintenance of Nokia's research and development activities in France. This will be the case in Nozay for 5G, the most vital technology, and in Lannion, the territory that concerns you directly, for cybersecurity. Beyond that, you are absolutely right, the stake of digital sovereignty is vital. This implies innovation first. The break-up innovation fund, which has been set up with €10 billion, will also help us protect our technologies and gain digital sovereignty. Digital sovereignty also means that we are capable of resisting U.S. extraterritorial sanctions and the Cloud Act – the law clarifying the lawful use of data abroad – which allows any U.S. government to retrieve data from French companies from a hosting company. Under the authority of the Prime Minister, we are currently working on a strategic data protection system for our companies, so that they cannot be recovered by the US administration or justice without these companies being notified. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, digital sovereignty is also European digital sovereignty, in particular through the establishment of the GDPR – the general regulation on data protection – and a European digital area, which will allow us to state loud and clear that we are a sovereign nation and also, in digital matters, a fully sovereign continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u94	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u95	Mr Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, we heard yesterday, in the press, that the administrative court in Lyon had cancelled the authorisation to place on the market a weeder containing glyphosate, which we welcome. I recall that this molecule was classified in 2015 as a probable human carcinogen. The President of the Republic had committed himself to abolish its use as soon as "alternatives were found" at the latest in 2021. The ambiguous wording of the President seems to me merely intended to allow industry time to produce new products to the detriment of our health. Why is it so complicated to ban glyphosate when its danger is proven? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It therefore seems important to me, Minister of State, to ask you about the weight of lobbies in your decision-making. Yesterday's World tells us that the preliminary expert report on glyphosate is, more than 70%, a copy-paste of the registration file submitted by Monsanto. It is this document which serves as the basis for the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate in Europe. I also recall that Nicolas Hulot left his ministry denouncing the considerable weight of lobbies in French politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u96	He was right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u97	Finally, it is still unclear how the pesticide industry lobby was aware of Mrs Batho's amendment. There is a question, Minister of State: what about the independence of policies from lobbies? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the citizens' actions of those who seize these subjects, while regretting that whistleblowers are sometimes treated as offenders, whereas their aim is simply to defend public health and the common good. I also encourage members of the Glyphosate Campaign, whose complaints have been found admissible, to continue and expand their screening actions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the SOC and GDR groups]] Minister of State, what steps do you intend to take to make transparency about the implications of lobbies in your political decisions, particularly in the field of public health?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u98	The next speaker is the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u99	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you know, Mrs Taurine, with regard to glyphosate, we have taken a clear direction: we are the only country in the European Union to organise the release of glyphosate in three years now,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u100	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u101	While the other most ambitious countries wanted to ban it in five years' time and a majority of countries were in favour of allowing it again for ten years. That is the political reality. And you can check that only one other country in the world has banned glyphosate. With regard to health safety and assessment agencies, in France, ANSES – Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail – is an independent institution that continues work on this and many others. I can tell you that more than 150 marketing authorisations for products containing glyphosate have already been withdrawn and that the Minister of Agriculture and Food and I have requested a review of 50 authorisations without waiting for the three-year deadline. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] France is one of the countries which, at European level, are fighting to change the system, so that EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority, can rely on independent studies carried out by public bodies and no longer on studies provided by private companies. We are fighting this fight to strengthen its independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u102	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] In concrete terms, we are acting at the French level, since we have appointed the prefect Pierre-Étienne Bisch to coordinate and organize the mobilization of the sectors, territories and farmers with a view to the exit of the glyphosate. To this end, we have released a budget of 71 million as early as 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u104	Three lies in one answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u105	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u106	Madam Minister of Solidarity and Health, tonight will be broadcast on France 3 the report "Enfants situés: les sacrifices de la République". The results of this survey are disastrous: they show that children who are already extremely vulnerable are being subjected to further violence, among themselves and sometimes even by those who are supposed to protect them. It is not a question of stigmatizing the professionals in charge of these children who, in the vast majority, carry out a formidable job in more than difficult conditions. Today, more than 300,000 children are cared for by child welfare and 160,000 are withdrawn from their families; 70% of these children do not have any diplomas or training. In addition, 40 per cent of the homeless under the age of 25 are former children in care. The figures for child protection are also overwhelming. Two children die every week under beatings and torture. In addition, 73,000 cases of violence against minors are identified each year, or 200 per day; 7,000 rapes of minors are recorded each year, almost 20 per day – representing 44% of rapes. Half of the victims of rape and sexual assault are under 12 years of age and only 2 per cent of the cases are convicted. These figures illustrate the overall failure of our child protection policy. It was in this sense that I proposed, as part of the review of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill, an amendment to establish a regular evaluation of child protection arrangements. I regret that it was not adopted. The Government has initiated work on the development of a national child protection strategy, which was released on 20 November on the occasion of the International Day for the Rights of the Child. He has embarked on a campaign of prevention and reform, which I welcome with all members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. The vote in the National Assembly on my colleague Maud Petit's bill to ban ordinary educational violence is also a first step. In addition, a High Commissioner for Child Protection has been appointed. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group as well as on several benches of the LaREM, UDI-Agir and SOC groups. – Mrs Bérengère Poletti also applauds]] Madam Minister, what progress has been made to date and what action will be taken?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u107	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u108	As you know, child protection is an exceptionally sensitive subject. We are fully mobilized in this regard, since a communication campaign aimed at the general public was launched on 20 November to encourage people who witness violence against children to call 119, the telephone number for children at risk. I also undertook a mission in support of the Public Interest Group Children at Risk – the agency responsible, among other things, for the emergency number 119 – so that it could better organize the follow-up of reports and provide us with statistics to assess the public policy for the care of children at risk. This public policy is historically shared between the State and the departments. While the State will play its full part in future reforms, departments are obviously responsible for handling reports, via the collection cells of worrying information, and for caring for children in need of protection and unable to remain with their families. The new strategy that I have with Mrs La Garde des Seales, Nicole Belloubet, will have to be the subject of consultation with the Assembly of the French departments and with the departments. For example, we will have to work together on the sensitive issue of the time frame for enforcement of court decisions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] On 28 January, I will present the Government's road map for child protection to the National Child Protection Council. In this context, as you are asking us to do, we will have to think with the departments about how to ensure better management of the actions to be taken in order to guarantee the rights of the child effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u109	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u110	My question is to Ms Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disabled Persons. "The red tape fight with bare hands": this is what I heard again this morning on France Inter, in Nicole Ferroni's post about the galleys of the démarches – yes, the galleys of the démarches – of Nora, mother of a child with a disability. I thought of Julia and her mother, who live in my village, Volx, and whom I took care of as a nurse. I've been thinking about all those who live in similar situations in France. I have thought of all the people who call me daily on the ground, exhausted by the administrative impasses. For decades, we have always heard the same disarray. It's intolerable! We can't solve this. Nothing is done in a day, but I know, Madam Secretary of State, the energy and the will that drive you and the entire Government to ensure that the situations and journeys of people with disabilities are no longer chaotic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on several benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] Let's go back to common sense: simplify! Let us not overwhelm these families with administrative procedures and give them back their trust! In May 2018, our colleague Adrien Taquet issued his report entitled "Easier Life". What a great ambition! Since then, two decrees have been issued, but are the families concerned aware of these advances? Do they know their rights? Can you tell us where, when and how life will be "simpler"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u111	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u112	Simplification of the daily lives of people with disabilities, their families and loved ones, restoration of confidence in their expertise: this is the thread of our commitment. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] My ambition is simple: to stop asking the French to constantly prove their disability in order to gain access to their rights, finally to alleviate the burden on those who need to be supported more and who foster the distrust between institutions and administrations and families. Along with the Prime Minister, I have embarked on a determined policy of simplification, drawing on the expertise of national representation and the voluntary sector. To do this, I jointly sent Adrien Taquet and Jean-François Serres. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I am pleased to confirm that some of their proposals are now a reality. On 24 and 27 December, two decrees were issued: for example, since 1 January, there are finally life rights such as the allowance for adults with disabilities or the inclusion mobility card. The status of disabled worker will soon be recognized for life. Similarly, the education allowance for the disabled child will be awarded up to the age of 20 years. No more paperwork for Nora, Julia's mom and more than a million people! I am thinking of children and adults who are blind, trisomic, tetraplegic, polydisabled, with multiple sclerosis and many other types of disability whose rate has been estimated to be more than 80%, unfortunately without any favorable evolution possible. It is true that this simplification is very recent: it is therefore absolutely necessary to make it known. To do this, I will visit all the departmental houses of disabled people – CDMH – in the first half of 2019 to ensure that this right is finally known, promoted and especially carried by the administrations to the knowledge of the people. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on several benches of the MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] Trust in people, respect for our commitments: these are many invariants of government action as a whole. They are more than ever at the heart of my work in the service of people with disabilities, whose journey I want to facilitate so that they are fully citizens next to us, with us, in the midst of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u113	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u114	[[Applause on all benches]] Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, France is constantly fighting Islamist terrorism in the Sahel. With you, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome the action of our soldiers who are currently engaged in it. Of course, and fortunately, France is not alone and the cohesion of all actors alongside the G5 Sahel force is absolutely essential. However, on 10 January, the United States House of Representatives passed a law codifying the Trans-Saharan Partnership against Terrorism to strengthen the coordination of United States actions with the countries of Africa, not only in the West, but also in the North. In the wake of President Trump's unilateralist temptation, one can see in it the prefiguration of a new strategic order redefining the map of ambitions and influences in the region. This war of positioning Western powers in the Sahelian theatre would be detrimental, given the magnitude of the evil to be eradicated. Recall that the relevance of the G5 Sahel lies mainly in the strength of the security and development nexus in this desert area of 5 million square kilometres, with 80 million inhabitants distributed in five border countries. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] My question will be three times, Secretary of State. First, how will the Trans-Saharan American partnership be articulated with the G5 Sahel force? In other words, will it be complementary or competitive? Secondly, what is the state of the terrorist threat in this region, quantitatively and qualitatively? Finally, what about the fund-raising, after the promise of €420 million in donations, including €220 million from France, plus the $50 million pledged by the President of the Republic last December?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u115	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u116	Mr Ledoux, the National Assembly committed itself to this subject, not later than on 19 December, at an inter-parliamentary summit that you hosted, President Ferrand, which enabled us to take stock of the commitment that unites us all, with the States and peoples of the Sahel, in the fight against terrorism. We naturally associate ourselves with the tribute you paid to the 4500 French soldiers who work daily for this security. I come to the three questions you have just asked. Of course, the United States is and remains an essential partner. They support the Barkhane force and have provided €95 million in support for the equipment of the G5 Sahel joint force. The vote of the Congress confirms and reinforces this common work, and we will ensure that it remains complementary. The terrorist threat remains real, alas, despite a number of successes achieved on the ground by our forces. Of course, we are concerned about the expansion of certain areas of conflict – I am thinking of eastern Burkina Faso. That is why, as early as December, on the occasion of President Kaboré's visit, the defence partnership was strengthened. [[Applause on a few benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir]] Mention should also be made of the financial efforts made to better equip the joint G5 Sahel force. As you pointed out, this represents several hundred million euros, of which 390 million were pledged by partners outside the Sahelian countries. Equipment has already been delivered for 50 million euros and the others will be in the course of the year, with France among the states that will allow these deliveries. We will succeed together. Europe, Africa: our destiny is linked.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u117	Mrs Monica Michel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u118	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to draw your attention to an emergency situation. Farmers in the CAPA grain sector have asked me to express their great concern. They were affected by a period of four months of continuous severe drought, followed by dense rainfall in the spring, while wheat cultivation did not require water at that time. After this episode of climate hazard, their crops deteriorated in quantity and quality. As you know, cereal farms are not covered by the agricultural calamity fund and are therefore not eligible for insurance. This is accentuated by the situation of a dense and fragile ecosystem. Indeed, the Camargue is a specific land, made difficult to exploit by the phenomenon of salinization, the uplifts of salt making the land unusable. However, it is an ecosystem rich in biodiversity, which is why it is of paramount importance to conserve existing farms in order to avoid dropping this land, which is indispensable for the fragile balance between agricultural development and livestock production. On the other hand, pastries and meal manufacturers are concerned about the decline in local supply, while they are heavily involved in FranceAgriMer's durum wheat recovery plan, whose aim was to halt the decline in this crop. Finally, regional grain production feeds a large pasta production plant in the department and the jobs of this agri-food giant could be threatened, thus penalizing our region's economy. I would therefore like to have some clarification, Mr. Minister, on the approach that you intend to take, in the face of this urgent situation, to respond quickly to the needs of our farmers, who find themselves deprived of these substantial losses. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would also like to ask for the declaration of a state of natural disaster, taking into account their requests for relief of burdens, in order to help them through this crisis. This has already been done for the tree industry, which received state aid during the freezing period. While cereals have always faced climate hazards alone, this situation is unprecedented for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u119	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u120	Mrs Michel, thank you for your question. It is true that the PACA region, especially your territory, was affected by the double phenomenon of a great drought followed by a great rainfall, which caused a lot of damage in the crops. This year the country has experienced a huge drought – I will answer your question in a moment – and a CNGRA, a national committee for risk management in agriculture, is still meeting today. Dozens of cases will be discussed there, and I would like to reiterate before the National Assembly that the State and the Government are on hand to respond to the plight of all the farmers affected by the drought, everywhere in France, in the seventy departments concerned. I'm coming to your constituency and your department. You referred to the exceptional situation experienced by the tree farmers. You know, however, that they can't be compared in any way with cereal growers, who don't have access to the same devices – I regret that, but that's how it is. As a result, grain farmers affected by such a situation can make declarations to the DDTM – the departmental management of the territories and the sea – in order to benefit from land tax exemptions and social security tax deferral measures, as field crops are insurable and, therefore, the State cannot take over. On the other hand, in its current negotiations for the new common agricultural policy of 2020, the Government is studying how the CAP, in the event of climate, health and other hazards, particularly climate, could assist these territories. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] However, we will have to find a solution – and Europe can help us – to spread crop insurance across all regions of France. This is the only solution, because there will certainly still be climatic hazards from year to year, and without this crop insurance to the taste of the day and allowing farmers to take out an insurance contract at an average cost, this will not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u121	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u122	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u123	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.10 and resumed at 16.30 with Mr Marc Le Fur in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u124	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u125	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law empowering the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (No. 1508).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u126	Mr Alexandre Holroyd, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u127	We are gathered here for the final stage of the legislative process of the bill enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The Joint Joint Committee, meeting on 18 December to discuss this bill, unanimously adopted a text common to the two parliamentary assemblies, in accordance with the broad guidelines required by the Senate and the National Assembly. [[Smile]] First of all, let me thank the chairman of the special committee, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, who presided over our work with talent, height and surprisingly British humour. I would also like to thank all the members of the Special Committee, of all political sensitivities, for the constructive work done together, which brings us here today. It is the honour of our national representation to be free from political disputes when the interest of the Nation is at stake; This is the case here, and it seems to me that our assembly has been on the rendezvous. This bill is part of a particular context on which I do not think it would be useful to go back in detail. Having said that, I do not think it is possible not to mention the vote that took place yesterday in the House of Commons and the considerable uncertainty that resulted therefrom. The rejection by British parliamentarians of the withdrawal agreement negotiated by Michel Barnier with Theresa May shows as never before the need to actively prepare us for the hypothesis of a lack of agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom in March. It was with this in mind that the Government had sought, as early as October, the authorization to legislate by ordinances. The text consists of three distinct parts, of which only the third is intended to apply if the United Kingdom and the European Union agree. Article 1 concerns the fate of the British in France after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. Madam Minister responsible for European Affairs, I would like to thank you for your listening in this area to our special committee by taking, here in this same forum, the unequivocal commitment to do everything possible to ensure that British nationals in our territory are in a situation comparable to that which they would have benefited under the withdrawal agreement. It is also to my great satisfaction that, at the request of all the political groups, we have introduced into the text of the bill the need for the Government to define the conditions for the retention of staff and trainees of the British civil service recruited before the date of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union under the conditions of their status and employment. It is to honour their commitment and dedication to the service of France that they protect their status and their rights. The preservation of citizens' rights is a moral imperative; As the United Kingdom withdraws from Europe, our mutual commitment to the rights of European citizens must prevail. France is doing its part here. Article 2 seeks, among other things, to protect the rights of French and Europeans who may personally suffer from Brexit – a subject that is particularly dear to me. These Frenchmen, I know their worries and I know their anxieties; I have heard them every week for 18 months and this text gives them concrete answers. Thus, French nationals who, by obligation or choice, return to France will be able to see their periods of insurance, activity or vocational training carried out in the United Kingdom taken into account for the opening of their social rights, whether it be unemployment or retirement, up to six months after the date of the British withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u129	In addition, students and apprentices will benefit from recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications acquired or in the process of being acquired in the United Kingdom up to five years after the date of its withdrawal from the European Union. The Europe of education, education and training is a reality for tens of thousands of young people; France also ensures continuity of service in this area. The same Article 2 goes beyond the situation of European nationals living in the United Kingdom. It enables the Government to ensure the continuity of exports of sensitive equipment. It ensures that the vital artery for our economy, the Channel Tunnel, will continue to function as best it can. Finally, it guarantees the continuity of contracts in the banking sector and the possibility for our financial entities to access the UK banking system. These are very concrete challenges for our economy and our fellow citizens who work in the companies concerned, which the Government is now able to protect. Article 3 relates to the specific problem of adapting transport and storage infrastructures. The urgency of the situation is obvious, but whether or not there is an agreement, additional checks will have to be carried out on this new border of the European Union, which will be the Channel coast. The parliamentary chambers, the Government and the territories are aware of the absolute need for coastal regions to prepare for the potential for future shock. Finally, Article 4 endorses an innovation which I had proposed during the examination of the text, which was included in the version adopted by the Joint Joint Committee. Our two chambers will be able to be informed without delay and in detail of the measures taken by the Government and their state of preparedness, and will be able to request further information in the context of their monitoring and evaluation mission. This is a fair way for the Government to involve parliamentarians in the preparatory work: we must prepare together, Parliament and Government, for the magnitude of this challenge, which has no historical precedent and shows, in watermark, the place, importance and contribution of the European Union for our countries, our lives, our fellow citizens and our economies. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I welcome the agreement reached between our two assemblies: it is a victory of parliamentary work in the service of the interests of our country, of those who live there and of our businesses. This text contains many advances proposed by the House and allows us to anticipate and adapt. France must be prepared for any eventuality; through this text we give it the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u130	The Minister for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u131	Last night, the House of Commons voted clearly against the ratification of the withdrawal agreement, with a very clear majority of 230 votes. This text, together with a political declaration on future relations, had been the subject of an agreement between British and European negotiators, after seventeen months of negotiations which allowed many hypotheses to be explored. It was then approved by the Heads of State and Government of the 27 Member States at the extraordinary summit on 25 November. The agreement aims to ensure an orderly withdrawal from the United Kingdom by minimizing disruptions for citizens, economic actors and all stakeholders. This is, of course, a severe vote for the British Prime Minister. Today, I hear all kinds of speculation about what's going to happen now. In this complicated moment, it seems to me essential to keep our peace and unity. The British situation is complex; Let's let her settle. A motion of censure was tabled yesterday and will be voted on tonight, but the Prime Minister normally has a majority on this point. Yesterday's vote does not mean the end of the withdrawal agreement, since Mrs May has the legal opportunity to propose its ratification to Parliament again. With regard to the possibility of a postponement of the date of withdrawal – I repeat what I have said in the context of the questions to the Government – this is only a hypothesis that has so far not been presented to us by any British official. It is technically and legally possible, but it still needs to be supported politically in the United Kingdom as well as in the European Union – as the 27 would have to be unanimously in favour of it. There should also be a clear and convincing answer to two common-sense questions: a postponement, for what to do and for how long? I will be careful not to anticipate what the British authorities will do and what specific messages they will send to Europeans. It is up to Mrs May, by 21 January, to state the consequences of the vote, to consult with British parliamentarians and to clarify her intentions for the next steps. The wide variety of opinions expressed in the House of Commons on what should be done to make Brexit more radical or less strict, or even to remain in the European Union, makes any forecast difficult. One thing is certain, however, the main asset of the European Union since the beginning of the negotiation is its unity: unity in the negotiation and, it goes together, unity in substance around the guidelines adopted by the European Council and made public. We will not depart from this and will continue to defend our interests, including the need for a safety net in Ireland – a fundamental issue for Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, but also for the integrity of the single market. I said this before you and I repeat: we can explain and try to reassure – this is what the President of the Republic and the other members of the European Council did in December – but not change the substance of the agreement. One thing is absolutely certain today: an exit without agreement becomes less unlikely. Preparation for all assumptions, including this one, is therefore even more essential today than when we discussed the enabling bill here. At European level, the Commission has accelerated its work since November 2018 and published two communications, on 13 November and 19 December, as well as sixteen proposals for legislation in various fields. These texts concern visas, energy efficiency, financial services, air transport, road transport, customs controls, climate, regional cooperation on the island of Ireland and statistics. At the national level, the objective of the draft law enabling the Government to take the necessary measures by order – in particular in the event of a lack of agreement – which was agreed by the Joint Committee on 18 December, is precisely to allow France to be ready regardless of the scenario. That is why I would like to thank you solemnly. The fact that the Joint Joint Committee has reached an agreement demonstrates Parliament's sense of responsibility for the urgency and unprecedented nature of this situation. This text makes it possible to secure as much as possible the situation of French nationals in the United Kingdom and the British in France, to promote the continued movement of people and goods, and to organise within a very short period of time the controls which will become necessary after the exit from the United Kingdom. The vote and the promulgation of this text will enable us to adopt the first ordinances very quickly. France, together with Germany, will be among the Member States best prepared for an exit without agreement. The bill you have been working on is already a source of inspiration for many of our European partners. I want to point out that the work of the National Assembly and the Senate in reviewing this bill has led to substantial progress. They have thus made it possible to clarify the aims sought for the different types of measures, while maintaining the necessary flexibility, in particular with regard to the possible adaptations or derogations in order to organise the controls to be carried out at the borders in a material way. In one specific case – I am thinking of the fate of British nationals recruited before Brexit in the French civil service – your assembly wanted to be explicit and to specify that the status quo would be maintained. That is what the bill provides for: no nationality requirement will be imposed on the persons concerned. We are moving quickly forward with the preparation of orders that can be presented to the Council of Ministers shortly on the basis of this enabling bill. Beyond the various legal measures required, I would like to stress that the Government is making every effort to minimize the effects of withdrawal from the United Kingdom without agreement. The implementation of the contingency plans of each ministry is monitored closely and regularly. Tomorrow morning, the Prime Minister will once again bring together all the ministers concerned to ensure that all the measures to be taken by the various administrations are well advanced. It will also provide an opportunity to ensure that all information and communication measures are in place. A unique Brexit information website has been created to answer questions from individuals and businesses. Many doubtless had the hope that preparing was not going to be indispensable; It is essential to help them understand that they were wrong. We will continue in the coming days the steps I have taken with Mrs Agnès Pannier, Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, to explain in detail to professional federations and businesses how to prepare for a Brexit without agreement, and to answer their questions. From tomorrow, with the Prime Minister, we will also meet with the regional presidents, because, in order for us to be perfectly ready, everyone has to do their part of the work, state, regions and economic operators. Finally, I would like to assure the National Assembly that the Government has heard the requests made to it, even if they cannot be met in the context of this bill. They concern, for example, areas such as air transport or fisheries policy, which are covered by European and non-national contingency measures. I am also thinking of the issue of migration. Be assured that we are particularly attentive to this last subject, and that we will remain so, regardless of the future developments of Brexit!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u133	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of this enabling bill, because it is essential for our country to be able to deal with all situations, including a lack of agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u134	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, chairman of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u135	We are coming to the end of the parliamentary journey of a bill that will enable the Government to anticipate all the consequences of an unacceptably exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, a hypothesis which is, unfortunately, less and less unlikely. In these troubled times, when the United Kingdom again yesterday showed the spectacle of a more divided Parliament than ever before, I am pleased that our two chambers were able to agree on the text that is before you. We have shown a spirit of responsibility, seriousness and unity that we can be proud of. As you know, Madam Minister, legislation by ordinance rarely has the favors of parliamentarians, but all have agreed, both in the Assembly and in the Senate, that the emergency conditions and the unpredictability of the situation fully justified recourse to section 38 of the Constitution. Yesterday's vote in the House of Commons showed that unfortunately we were too right. Of course, it is clever to know how the British parliamentary process will end, between popular vote, referendum or the choice of a dry exit. However, the likelihood of an agreementless exit from the United Kingdom's abrupt transition from the status of a Member State of the Union to the World Trade Organisation regime has acquired an undeniable likelihood. The potential legitimate risk of rapid preparation of our infrastructure for the coming shock. [[Smile]] What happened yesterday in London obliges us to face the situation in a calm and united manner. The coolness and unity, qualities usually recognized by the British, qualities they have now forgotten a little bit, are more necessary than ever. Our special commission has tried to meet the challenge. It has, of course, endeavoured to reassure the French and European citizens who will be the first to be affected by an unauthorized exit from the United Kingdom, those who are outside our borders. If they have to return to France, if their choice of life is finally telescoped by an exit without agreement, they will have another six months to return and enjoy all the social rights to which they can legitimately claim until now. However, we have not forgotten to ensure the safety of the British citizens who live in our territory. In particular, at the initiative of our rapporteur, whose efforts I welcome, we have been able to guarantee to the 1,700 British civil servants who are currently in posts, particularly in national education and in the hospital service, that they will continue to be employed on the same conditions as they now enjoy – subject, of course, to a certain reciprocity in the treatment, different but comparable, which will be reserved for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u136	Singing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u137	We also wanted to protect the valuable and shared asset of student and apprentice mobility. I want to conclude by thanking the members of the special committee whom I had the honour and pleasure of chairing. Beyond the postures that never spare parliamentary life, we have, I believe, demonstrated our ability to overcome partisan quarrels, because the fate of our citizens across the Channel and of our businesses here was at stake. I would also like to welcome the good quality of cooperation with the Senate. A successful Joint Joint Committee is always a sign of a common understanding of the issues at stake by our two chambers. We had initial differences; We have been able to overcome them in order to enable the Government and our administrations to respond to the emergency. In particular, we have decided to leave ample room for the Government to adapt port, airport and road infrastructure, so that the new European border, which is the Channel coast, can come in good conditions. However, we expect full information from Parliament on this matter. We also agreed to preserve the attractiveness of French territory for British citizens and businesses who want to continue to benefit from the common market and all the resources that our country and the European Union as a whole can provide. The bicameral agreement has therefore produced a quality compromise. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Our action will not stop with the passage of this bill. Article 4 of the Act contains a provision which will enable Parliament to be informed without delay of the state of preparation and the content of the orders. We will therefore keep an attentive eye, Madam Minister, on the preparation of this exit without agreement. Together, we will take up the common sense challenge that was launched yesterday by our dear neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u138	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u139	Defending a procedural motion remains, at this time, the only means available to us to maintain the expression of our opposition to the principles underlying the European Treaties. In any event, minister, be assured that we have appreciated the quality of the milestone you have just presented. It allows us to understand what is happening, and to know what we can possibly expect after Brexit. We had many reasons not to like the exit agreement, but we had first and foremost an essential question: why on earth do the English want to leave the European Union? This question is now hidden. I heard one of our colleagues explain that the British spoke on the basis of a flood of lies and ignorance. To assume that people are not smart enough to understand what is being asked of them remains an easy solution for those who do not get the "right answer". The truth is that the English, like the French and many others who react very differently, have fully understood that the European Union has come to an impasse because of the principles that organize it, principles set out in the Treaties, in particular in the budget treaties. The great European utopia that filled the heart of so many generations – and that goes back a long way – was based on a union that created cooperation between peoples, mutual aid, a union that drew a horizon of social progress and progress in all areas of human life. This is the reverse because of a particular method of organising the Union, a method based on budgetary treaties drawn up under the pressure and hegemony of the political thinking of the governments of the German CDU-CSU. These treaties have established ordoliberalism as the doctrine on which the whole functioning of the Union is based. Let us not be told that this is not true, because, since the beginning and since the first negotiations, the question has been on the table, so that the first German negotiators, at the time when Europe was six, already called the French "romantic" because they wanted to put on the table the necessary social convergence that was not in the plans of the German governments of the immediate post-war period. This is the subject which has divided us since the beginning, even though it was thought at the time that the problem would eventually be solved by the gradual integration of the nations united in a union of six and in a convergence comparable to that which had enabled Germany to form itself from the Zollverein, which was initially only a customs agreement. This is not what has happened, and the budget treaties have introduced a bifurcation into the history of which we are paying the price. You can't say otherwise! The European Union, as a particular political and economic organisation sealed by treaties, has entered a phase of decomposition. Why this decomposition? Simply because it has placed at the heart of its operation not the cooperation but the competition of everyone against everyone in all fields. When we sow competition and build the other as an adversary, we reap the anger of the peoples and the refusal to live together. That is what motivated the vote of the English who are neither fools nor ignorant, but, on the contrary, a very great people to whom we owe a great deal, we must always remember! You fully understand that we could not accept the following sentence in the withdrawal agreement: "The Union and the United Kingdom agree on the importance of free and undistorted competition in their trade and investment relations. The same sentence was already at the heart of the 2005 debate on the Treaty establishing a European Constitution. At the time, the principle of "free and undistorted competition" was to become the absolute top of the hierarchy of Union standards; re-establishing this notion in the same way in the exit agreement was tantamount to validating it when we voted the opposite by referendum. The agreement also states that "the Union and the United Kingdom recognise that anti-competitive business practices" – seen by the European Union – "concentrations between companies and state interventions are likely to disrupt the smooth functioning of markets and lessen the benefits of trade liberalisation". This is a manifesto of liberal thought that cannot be presented as a law of nature. This is a political choice among others. I recall that when the first six-country agreement was presented before the National Assembly, Pierre Mendès France explained, at the rostrum from which I speak, that the French Republic could not accept an intervention outside human laws to regulate human activities. He said in a way: neither God nor market! I refer you to the text of his speech in which he referred to this market whose mysterious action, if free, would have harmoniously regulated human activities. At the same time as Brexit was being negotiated, negotiations began on what would be the relations between the countries of the European Union and England after Brexit. Nor can we agree on this. In October 2018, the CEO association, Corporate Europe Observatory, filed a complaint denouncing the lack of transparency in the negotiations. She even said: "What is clear from the investigative work we have been doing for several months is that both on the Brussels side and on the British side, we are deliberately trying to keep the omertà on the trade between the negotiators and the financial sector. As far as the EU is concerned, this is even a major step backwards in terms of transparency: never before had the European authorities refused to reveal even the words spoken by lobbyists. » We therefore had strong reasons to be opposed to this text, not because of our relationship with the English, but because of the result that would come for us French. And that's how I'm going to look at what's happening. The truth is that the attempt to agree on Brexit has broken, in particular, on the question of Ireland. I do not blame either the Government or the rapporteur on this subject, but I invite everyone to reflect on a point that I often return to, including in this forum: borders are no longer a question that we can leave at the edge of the table until we know how, in the future, the peoples of Europe can evolve together in the framework of political agreements of the European Union type. The case of Ireland shows this. I put aside my personal feelings – I believe in one and indivisible republican Ireland, but it is my business and the reason may be that I am projecting feelings on another country that I am applying to my own – but it must be noted that there are two countries and therefore a border, that it has been the subject of an endless battle, and that, even though the framework of the European Union has made it disappear in practice, thereby gradually relieving tensions, we see today that the question of borders remains, since it is because of the border in Ireland that the proposed agreement was rejected yesterday. Indeed, the Conservatives rejected it for national reasons. Of course, Labour also voted against it, but given the Conservatives' point of view and their idea of the unity of the kingdom, they did not want to hear about a status that would in some way undermine the unity of the kingdom. I would add that we should think about what we're doing. Two statutes had been proposed: one for the Irish side, which would have remained in the Union, and another for the rest of Great Britain, which would have been in a customs union. I want to mark this moment with a white stone: we will soon be discussing the cross-border districts, to which it is proposed to apply legislation different from the rest of the country – this concerns Germany. But the following question will arise the next day: what are the cross-border regions of regions that are not? And, as a result of contagion, we will see the law of the least apply everywhere. The question of frontiers has also almost been raised with regard to Catalonia's independence. We think what we want, but I would remind you that the European Union had started by saying: "If you are independent, you are no longer in the Union. Of which act. But if they are no longer members, we will have to explain why those who had never been members – I am thinking of East Germany – have been integrated into the European Union without any other form of trial or popular vote. Now it is Catalonia and, not long ago, it was Scotland. I thank you for the rest, that is to say the borders of eastern Europe, for it would be to put your hand in a nest of hornets, as everyone who knows the long history of the countries of Eastern Europe knows. I must therefore stress once again in this rostrum the need for a border conference that will enable the various nations of the European Union to take up the questions that may arise about borders. Do I have to point out that we French would have a serious problem if a problem of this type ended up settling down in a way that would not fix our affairs in relation to our neighbours? I am thinking in particular of what is happening in Belgium: if the Flemish, whose animadversion against the Walloons is known, decided to question the unity of the kingdom, do you think that we French people would have absolutely nothing to say about the status of our neighbour? Of course I do. Let's be careful to organize before we have to go through it. In these moments of decomposition, I would like to mention two points which I am saddened by, Madam Minister, taking advantage of the occasion to expand the point, as you can see I am already doing. The first is that it is very shocking for the national representation to learn that our country will soon sign a new treaty with Germany without us knowing anything about it. We are aware of the agreement with the German Parliament, but nothing about the treaty with Germany itself, if not an article published in a daily newspaper criticising a particular clause. I think it is not a good sign to take such an important step without Parliament's prior consent. It seems to me that such a precondition would facilitate the possible acceptance of this Treaty. But this will not be the case for our group, because of the harmful nature of a number of measures, if I believe the press. And then, ladies and gentlemen, you remember the Treaty called 'Merkozy', the budget treaty concluded by Mr Sarkozy and Mrs Merkel, then ratified under Mr Hollande, who had first stated that he intended to renegotiate it, before accepting it in return for a supposed 120 billion European recovery plan, financed half by existing appropriations and the other half by borrowing. No one has forgotten this magnificent moment of the failure of French diplomacy, since, at the end, we signed the treaty as it is and we swallowed everything. As you can see, this Treaty contained a provision that provided for some sort of expiry date: it would lapse on 1 January 2018 if, by that date, its provisions had not been introduced into Community law. Surprise: As of January 1, 2018, nothing had been done or planned. Horror! The European Commission is therefore preparing a directive and, at the speed of all bureaucracies, it reaches the European Parliament's ad hoc committee around November. Second surprise: while no one was prepared for it, the committee voted against it. The transposition of the Merkozy Treaty into Community law has therefore never been achieved. There is therefore a legal vacuum which does not seem to be worrying anyone and I hear saying: "My faith, the European Commission will soon be proposing another directive. She said: "I'll be here in January 2019! "... No one has seen anything happen, either in committee or in the plenary of the European Parliament. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to realize that the very people who spend their time asking us for the strict application of all kinds of measures, never failing to remind us of the imperatives of the Merkozy Treaty, do not impose the same rigour on themselves in order to make the legal texts live, whereas this Treaty should no longer apply if we were to respect exactly what it had planned. I hope that my explanations are clear enough for everyone to understand why our group feels that something is breaking down before our eyes. I would like you, Mr rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, to welcome the unity of the European nations in the debate on Brexit. Why not? It's better to be united than disunited. But we are obliged to note also the extraordinary resemblance between the conditions under which this debate fails and its initial conditions, when General de Gaulle had opposed the entry of the English into the Common Market, saying in substance: "These Englishmen are incredible, they want to be both in the Common Market and not abandon anything in their own way. » That is exactly what the agreement proposed by the European Union contained, namely that they will do what they want while remaining in the customs union. But if that is the case, everyone will be bothered, because it would make them the hub of goods from the rest of the world to the continent and, for their part, they will protest, because they will be able to access the single market only under the conditions of the Union, with its regulations and its court of justice, and they will say, "How would we be an independent nation if we participated in a market where you alone decide the rules? » Either in parentheses: it's not us. You see the imbroglio we're in. I do not know more than you, Madam Minister, how this will end, but it is very clear that between membership and non-membership of the European Union, it is extremely difficult to find an in-between. That is why there can be no other choice, if we really want to build a political union of Europe, than to adopt an approach assured from a union, but from a union based on cooperation and not competition. The evil that gnaws the current European Union is budgetary treaties, because they place "free and undistorted competition" instead of cooperation at the top of the hierarchy of standards. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] That is why the La France insoumée group has chosen to put forward this motion of rejection. I know I've been told on other occasions that I'm out of the question. It happened to me to be in my student life, but it didn't prevent me from making noticed remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u140	Primer!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u141	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u142	Mr Mélenchon, perhaps I will surprise you: we do not agree on everything, but there are elements on which we can find ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u143	Thank you, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u144	We don't agree on what triggered Brexit. I am not convinced, far from that, that the British have rejected what you call ordoliberalism or budgetary treaties. Unfortunately, they have instead rejected European solidarity, preferring competition to solidarity. They also rejected what they thought was a migratory submersion...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u145	Like Gérard Collomb?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u146	[[Mrs Célia de Lavergne applauds]] ... since, in this campaign of disinformation which was the one before the referendum, they had been made to believe, for example, that millions of Turkish nationals would arrive in the United Kingdom. We see that, at times, recourse to a referendum, however noble the intentions may be, must be framed by special precautions as to how the debates will take place, especially when the result can be so far-reaching. But we can find ourselves in the dissatisfaction we are experiencing with the way in which tax or social dumping still prevails in the European Union. I agree with you on this point: the European Union must not be the union of unbridled competition, but the union of cooperation. And that's France's entire effort for almost two years. It is a matter of reviving social ambition and bringing closer the way in which our various countries deal with tax consent, an important subject in France if it is – knowing that, in the tax field, the British wanted to maintain their full independence. You brushed a large fresco. I will not repeat all the elements, but I would like to make two points. The first concerns Ireland. The backstop, which can be translated as a "safety net", has been planned to deal with the somewhat surreal issue of the Irish border, which is not one. It is included in the withdrawal agreement. This measure was desired by the British, although it was not originally provided for in the European Union's proposal for an agreement. But we made this concession as a last resort. And that is what followed, a rather complete debate took place in the Communes. There is therefore no agreement on anything since there was no agreement on a unilateral UK exit from the backstop last night. It is clear that the issue is difficult to resolve. [[Ms. Mireille Clapot applauds]] The other clarification relates to the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. You are well aware that the Constitution is such that the Government negotiates the treaties and that Parliament ratifies them. The text had been entrusted to an interparliamentary working group which was working on an interparliamentary agreement. This Treaty will be aimed only at completing the Elysée Treaty by enabling our compatriots and German citizens to work better together, to exchange better, to intensify our cooperation, which is necessary and beneficial to our two countries, thus enabling the Franco-German engine, which Europe so much needs, to continue to function in order to make a Europe re-founded and more united.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u147	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u148	Mr Mélenchon, this is the second motion for a preliminary rejection that you defended on this text, and it is always a pleasure to be able to answer you and to dialogue with you on a theme that is all the more fascinating because you leave us the choice of subjects, since you have covered a wide field to say the least. You mentioned the question I asked the Government and the lies I mentioned as being an essential part of the campaign that took place in the United Kingdom. I lived there at the time, and I heard a political official explain that it would be super easy to get out of the European Union, that it would be done in two shots of spoons. It is very clear today that this is not the case and that it is on the contrary complicated. Yesterday's vote and the fundamental division of the British political class, which goes through political affiliations since it concerns both Labour and Conservatives, symbolize what this issue is a very difficult one. I have also seen and heard on radio and television politicians explaining that within a few weeks, a few months or a few years, the United Kingdom would sign free trade agreements with all the major countries on the planet that would be waiting in front of the new Department of International Trade to sign them. The British are still waiting for these agreements! You, like me, are very attached to social security. In the United Kingdom, the NHS – the National Health Service – is a centrepiece of political life. However, politicians also visited the whole country explaining that the UK's total European contribution would be allocated to the NHS. The British hospitals are still waiting for this money! A series of inaccuracies therefore played a role in the decision of the British people. Nevertheless, it would be wrong to think that no teaching can be drawn from Brexit. On this point, I share your point of view, and that is even one of the reasons that led me to engage in politics behind a candidate for the Presidency of the Republic who proposed a new vision for Europe and made concrete proposals to help our fellow citizens. I am thinking, for example, of the report I have recently written proposing that universal unemployment insurance can be presented to Europeans as a means of stabilisation. This proposal to protect them could have, for example, helped Greece in 2005, and could help other countries that are currently in difficulty. It is this kind of proposal that may have had to be heard upstream of Brexit, I agree, and that needs to be put in place today. That is why the speech of the Sorbonne of the President of the Republic offers, in my opinion, a set of solutions to these problems. On the budget treaty, I find it difficult to follow you: the United Kingdom has not signed it and, having no euro, it does not have to comply with its conditions, contrary to the situation of other European countries. I assure you that I have never heard in the British public debate an argument taking advantage of the fact that the European budgetary treaty would be a binding principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u149	I was talking not about England but about the rest of the European Union!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u150	This is another discussion. I was surprised that, in your speech, you criticized the European competition law proposed by the agreement. Dumping, whatever its form, is a scourge of modern society whose European competition law protects us. If the French steelworks are still open, it is thanks to this right, while the British steelworks are not in great shape because Great Britain has not used the tools at its disposal. In this agreement, this competition law was therefore essential, as it would have protected French industries and prevented the danger of competition between undertakings established on either side of the Channel. My purpose is not to defend this agreement. I would say, however, that he protected the French, that he protected the Europeans, that he protected our industries while offering a way out. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are here to discuss a bill enabling the Government to provide very concrete responses to citizens and businesses that may find themselves in great difficulty in March. In considering this text, we must give priority to the citizens – the French living in the United Kingdom, the British living here, those working in the civil service – who would not be protected if it were not adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u151	The President of the Joint Joint Committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u152	We must always consider the appropriateness of these rejection motions that intervene in the course of our proceedings in a relatively unnecessary manner, because each of us will agree that, if we can be for or against the use of section 38 of the Constitution, there is less reason to refer this bill back to committee or reject it than it is now that we need a decision. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, I must acknowledge that President Mélenchon is honouring his part of the contract and that, if his motion to reject is of little or no use, it is always a great pleasure to hear him put forward his ideas. A double pleasure, moreover, since, to listen to a man of talent, is added the pleasure of listening to a man who is wrong by thinking the opposite of what is considered to be true. After hearing it, we find ourselves thus strengthened in his own ideas while having, throughout his intervention, the happiness of greeting the artist. President Mélenchon, the same thing, considered in two ways, distinguishes us: the diagnosis of what is happening in the United Kingdom and the analysis of our own role. As far as the diagnosis is concerned, you do not see that what characterizes the British situation is not the rejection of the European Union but the division of the British people, its fragmentation. It is indeed striking that yesterday's vote unites with the same negative attitude of people who are fiercely hostile to the United Kingdom's retention in the European Union and of people who are very supportive of it. When we look at the debates taking place in the United Kingdom, we can only see that this country has never been so weakly united and that it is the "disunited Kingdom" that sends us this signal of distress. I do not underestimate the importance of this message, because the British do not have the monopoly of a disunity that is also at work at home, in different countries of the European Union and throughout the world. The difference between you and me, and the difference between you and those who have tried to succeed in the special committee, is that we are striving by every means to overcome these disagreements, to avoid this fragmentation and to find agreements that bring us together. We feel that, on this question of Brexit and the relationship with the United Kingdom, we have better things to do than to do, and that we should try to sew and sew. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As chairman of the special committee, I can only rejoice that she has worked in this spirit. And I must say, Mr Mélenchon, that she did it with the help of yours, because there is a moment for posture, there is a moment for speech, there is a moment for talent, there is a moment for the duel – and you are an admirable robber – but we must also show shared responsibility. I therefore pay tribute to all the colleagues who have worked in the special committee, who have all taken their part in the common responsibility, even if, today, they aspire to defuse themselves a little – it is human, too human.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u153	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the amendment, Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u154	Last night, the British Parliament rejected the draft British withdrawal agreement presented by the British Prime Minister, Mrs Theresa May. This vote was only half a surprise, because everyone expected it. What was more a surprise was the very large majority who rejected the agreement. In any event, this rejection is a step further in support of the assumption that the United Kingdom will withdraw from the European Union without agreement, such a withdrawal seems increasingly likely or, as Jean-Louis Bourlanges has said, less and less unlikely. This situation refers us to our own responsibilities as defendants of our fellow citizens: we must take urgent action. The work carried out so far shows that, in order to achieve this, the best way is to use orders under article 38 of the Constitution, taking into account a certain freedom on the part of the Government but also constitutional requirements and respect for the right of Parliament. In my turn, I am a witness to the quality of the work done in this special committee by our chairman and our rapporteur. I also welcome the agreement between the National Assembly and the Senate that took place within the framework of the Joint Joint Committee. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] We believe that this bill is fair, necessary and balanced. For this reason, the MODEM and related group will vote against the motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u155	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u156	The last time we examined this text, the British Prime Minister decided to postpone the UK's exit vote from the European Union in the House of Commons. A few weeks later, the vote took place and, as my colleagues have pointed out, the result is implacable. Like the British, their elected officials seem more divided than ever on the question of Brexit. Their vote also manifests this division, some having voted against it because they are in favour of keeping the British in the European Union – I am thinking of Scots and some Labour or Conservative MEPs – while others have voted against it because they want Brexit to be even harder. The vote of confidence, which must take place today, creates additional uncertainty about future events. As I recalled in our work in the Special Committee, the fate of the agreement is for the time being suspended from the turbulence of British policy. However, one positive point has to be stressed: Europeans have succeeded in adopting a strong common position, while some have planned a division on exit and agreement. Moreover, they exclude any new renegotiation of an agreement...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u157	That's your opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u158	That's my opinion, ma'am, I'm free to speak! I was therefore saying that they exclude any further renegotiation of an agreement that they consider to be the best possible given each other's positions. In this uncertain context, we must be ready. On 30 March we will mark the first day of the effective withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and, two and a half months before that date, we still do not know whether this exit will take place with or without agreement. The opinion of the Socialist and Related Group is therefore justified, even if the use of orders is not, as I have said on several occasions, the method that we prefer, and that we have expressed reservations on the substance. We could also have looked at this text earlier in order to take more time to frame the actions to be taken to compensate for the consequences of Brexit. [[Applause on certain benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, whether or not the agreement is ratified, whether or not the Prime Minister remains in office, whether or not a delay before withdrawal is granted, our country must be able to take prompt steps to ensure the necessary controls, the continuity of trade and the future of the French living in Britain and the British present on our soil. Therefore, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u159	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u160	Mr Mélenchon, what is the rhyme of a motion for a preliminary rejection on a text which is intended precisely to respond to an emergency situation, if not, as Mr Bourlanges has pointed out, to put forward your oratory art? This bill is intended to protect the rights and interests of our citizens. To reject it is to abandon the citizens of our nation. I can hear that orders are not a method that Parliament appreciates, but are you aware of the risks that the adoption of this rejection motion would involve for our citizens, for our businesses and for our country? You're just adding uncertainty and trouble in this discussion about an already very complicated situation. I would like here to welcome the agreement reached at the CMP and the work of the special committee. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges and Mr Alexandre Holroyd applaud]] The IUD Group, acting and independent, which is deeply committed to European values and to the protection of our citizens, will therefore oppose this motion for prior rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u161	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u162	It is not for questions of posture that the Group of the European People's Party has tabled this motion of rejection in advance, but because we are parliamentarians and our role here is to debate in order to shed light on our thinking and understand the fundamental reasons that have led us where we are, because what is happening in Britain has and is going to have an impact on all European countries, on the European Union and on our country. This is the political meaning of this motion, which is the opposite of a posture or some form of superficial Tribune eloquence. The various points developed by President Mélenchon reveal our differences of political analysis on the causes, consequences and prospects for our country and for the European Union of the vote on Brexit and the decision of the British Parliament. Reference was made to the discussions that preceded the referendum. If you have delegitimized the use of the referendum, Madam Minister, no doubt because of very French-French motivations, it seems to us that asking the people for their opinion is a fundamental condition of democracy and that we must respect this word, not only by declarations, but by acts. It is true that these debates have been accompanied by numerous exaggerations and caricatures, as is also sometimes seen in our country: I refer to the debate we had on asylum and immigration, during which, in an attempt to convince us to vote on this infamous text, a minister was able to speak of "migrant submersion". It is true that there has been caricature, but it must not hide that the people can fully understand what is being asked of them, nor must it obscure the political reasons why the economic crisis destroys societies or social services. We cannot understand the reasons for this vote without referring to what has happened in Britain over the last thirty or forty years, with a process initiated by Mrs Thatcher and continued by Mr Blair – which, I believe, with the idea of a "third way", is one of Mr Macron's at least ideological inspirators. Today and more than ever, because this is a major crisis for the European Union, we must ask ourselves about these reasons and the policies that led to this result, in order to anticipate and anticipate the next crises, not only in Britain, but also in France and Europe. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we have tabled this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u163	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u164	We are well aware that, given the urgency of the situation, the rejection of this bill could be considered absurd. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will, however, support this motion, because, in fact, what we reject is your way of doing it. So we'll support her to tell you: there's a lot of it. While we had discussed it in the special committee – I participated in these debates, the rapporteur and our colleagues are witnesses – when you said in the rostrum that France's honour would be to respect the status of the British in the French civil service, we are told, at the turn of a sentence, that this will only be done if there is reciprocity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u165	Not for the officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u166	I invite you to listen again to the recording of our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u167	It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u168	Jean-Luc Mélenchon spoke of the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle: my commune is twinned with a German city whose elected representatives have kept me informed of the state of the discussions. In the Bundestag, Members were informed of the exchanges in order to change the text. We never do! In no National Assembly commission: no discussion! And you want to teach us the lesson about democracy, saying that things are fine, that you respect the people's representatives? That's not true, you don't! You want to bring uncertainty and fear to bear by repeating that there is an urgency and by giving, through the ordinances, full powers to the Government. We do not accept it, so give the powers to Parliament instead! You know how to get us to work at night, until four o'clock in the morning, on texts that we wonder what in them justifies us keeping watch so late, and we wouldn't be able to get together in an emergency to understand the Brexit issues? Please respect us! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports the motion to reject it beforehand, because it is you who created the emergency situation by doing nothing, for the last year and a half, following the British vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u169	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u170	Brexit is, of course, a European problem, but it is also quite a British problem. And it poses, more generally, the problem of those nation-states that were created in the sixteenth century, that dominated the world in the nineteenth century, and that, in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, became States like the others. While, at one point in its history, the English people have conquered – and a little enslaved – the Scots or the Irish, they are today wondering if they still have to stay on the trailer of the United Kingdom. And the question arises not only for them, but for other countries, and more particularly for France, where it happens that Corsicans and Britons ask themselves about it. How can we look forward to a future that I, for my part, wish to be European? How can we find ways to respect those peoples who pre-existed in nation-states? It is about our European future. The text we are looking at responds to an exceptional situation. Nor am I very much in favour of ordinances, but it cannot be denied that there is an urgency here: it is urgent, indeed, to secure the status of the British in France and that of the French in the United Kingdom. It is to be hoped that, in the event of a lack of a deal, a bilateral agreement will allow us to do so: that would be to the credit of the British and the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u172	The Liberties and Territories Group will not support this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u173	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u174	Since yesterday, the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union without agreement seems to be confirmed, which we regret, as it makes the days and weeks that separate us from 29 March uncertain. It is in order to anticipate this exit without agreement that we are considering the bill that is coming back in our Chamber today: through a competition of circumstances of which it has the secret, the current situation allows us to react in a "at the same time" highly relevant. If, as the President of the Republic has pointed out, there are still possibilities to avoid this disastrous scenario, it would be irresponsible for us to play, for reasons of political publicity, with the daily lives of our fellow citizens and British citizens living in France, to endanger our businesses, which are often SMEs, and our territories, especially since we have answered the major questions they posed themselves through collective work which has led to a joint and final joint committee. In the case of British staff holding and interns in the French civil service, they will be kept under the conditions of their status and employment. As for the simplified procedural regime that will be put in place to arrange the entry points in our territory for passengers and, above all, goods from the United Kingdom, it will be temporary. The Minister is also committed to ensuring that decisions are commensurate with the notions of urgency and competitiveness, including environmental and heritage issues. We have also provided guarantees to French people living in the United Kingdom in the event of their return, particularly with regard to the opening of their social rights or the recognition of their diplomas. Above all, on the initiative of Alexandre Holroyd, and after many exchanges with the Government, genuine parliamentary control can be exercised over the measures to be taken by order. Parliament will be informed without delay, and in detail, of the measures taken: this is real progress, once again achieved within a collective framework. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote against this motion of rejection, which it considers to be meaningless.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u175	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u176	Definitely, the parliamentary journey of the bill before us today is adorned with peripets and prickly dates. At first reading, we had to precede the first vote in the House of Commons by twenty-four hours, and at the same time as we started our discussions in this House, we learned that Mrs May was delaying this vote in Westminster. Today, we are meeting to read the text drawn up by the Joint Joint Committee – and therefore at the last reading of the bill – a few hours after the British Parliament voted against the agreement. In other words, each time we are reminded of our responsibilities and of the perfectly exceptional and unique nature of our debate and of the political situation in which we find ourselves. We listened carefully to President Mélenchon's comments that the Republicans cannot support – in many respects, this should not surprise anyone. Indeed, we want, in a spirit of responsibility, and also with the concern for the intellectual and political coherence that, at first reading, led us to vote in favour of this bill, to reiterate our position: we are still in favour of its adoption. So, of course, we will not be able to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Pierre-Henri Dumont will have the opportunity to come back at length, during the general discussion, on the reservations and reservations which we had already expressed at first reading and which we will again express on sensitive subjects and points relating to the state of preparation or unpreparedness of the Government. We shall then make sometimes sceptical assessments concerning them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Alexandre Holroyd, rapporteur, applauds]] In any event, in a spirit of responsibility, because we are aware of the exceptional situation in which our two countries and the European Union are plunged, and because the situation has a real urgency, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u177	As the various groups have spoken, I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u178	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 86 Number of votes cast 86 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 11 Against 75
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u179	In the general debate, Mr Vincent Bru has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u180	On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom notified the European Council of its intention to withdraw from the European Union, thus formally triggering the application of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. Last night, in Westminster, the British Parliament rejected the agreement between London and Brussels very clearly. This is a doubly negative vote for me, and first of all because it seals the rejection of a text which was nevertheless the result of long months of negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union, but also, and above all, because, obviously, there is no alternative to the risk of a hard Brexit, i.e. a Brexit without agreement. Of course, we cannot but regret these two decisions, which have serious legal, economic and financial consequences, both for the United Kingdom and for the European Union and for our country. While the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, which is deeply European, regrets the situation in which we are in, it believes that we must draw all the consequences of a choice which we respect and which is essentially the property of the British people, who are sovereign. If we cannot judge this choice, we must, on the other hand, show a collective responsibility, which imposes on us an absolute duty: to take account of the interests of our fellow citizens. I therefore welcome the agreement reached on this text at the Joint Joint Committee. The current writing refers to a subtle balance, oscillating between responsibility and pragmatism. Responsibility, first of all: no one is unaware of it, the use of legislative authorizations by ordinances is justified in the case of withdrawal from the United Kingdom with or without agreement. The importance and urgency of the situation lead us to consider the use of such a mechanism as appropriate. However, our Assembly has been attentive to compliance with the provisions of the enabling laws contained in article 38 of the Constitution. The necessary flexibility granted to the Government will not prevent the supervision by the legislator – who will, in any case, have to ratify the ordinances. We have taken care to introduce an obligation to strengthen Parliament's information on the measures taken under these orders. Pragmatism, then. In the presence or absence of a withdrawal agreement, our country must be prepared to take the necessary steps. To this end, Article 1 of the Bill seeks to draw the conclusions of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union for the British subject to French law, by empowering the Government to legislate in various areas such as the right of entry and residence, the employment of British nationals or the control of goods to or from the United Kingdom. I would like to welcome the retention of British civil servants in the French civil service without a nationality requirement being opposed to them. Nearly 1,700 British civil servants will benefit from this measure. Article 2 deals, in the event of a lack of agreement, with the situation of the French subject to the British rules, with interbank licences and regulations and with the continuity of transport flows through the Channel Tunnel. Article 3 of the bill, which is intended to apply both in the presence and in the absence of a withdrawal agreement, deals with the creation of a specific procedural regime for the redevelopment of border infrastructure. In this regard, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement proposed the deletion of a provision prescribing a principle of strict proportionality concerning the objectives of maintaining safety and fluidity of passenger or cargo flows. This is a general principle which is intended to apply to all the measures concerned. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] All of these reasons make the passage of this bill both fair, necessary and urgent. I would therefore like to assure you once again, Madam Minister, of the full support and responsibility of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement in this period of crisis. We will vote with conviction for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u181	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u182	The British Parliament yesterday issued a vote of course sovereign. The result is spectacularly clear: the agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union, which was fiercely discussed between Theresa May and the European negotiator, was rejected, forcing further discussions or a Brexit without agreement between the partners. Fortunately, most of the text we are looking at today was preparing for such a scenario and for the absence of compromise by the deadline of 30 March 2019. The priority is to protect French and British nationals who have worked, work and will work in the coming years in our countries. Indeed, it is not because the United Kingdom leaves the European Union that ties with it will be cut off. As we said at first reading and in committee, the Socialist and Related Group believes that this bill is necessary, provided that the government's power to legislate by ordinance is sufficiently regulated. This was the subject of the amendments tabled by the members of the Socialist and Allied Group, which were aimed in particular at safeguarding the interests of French industrial enterprises and guaranteeing the right of persons in training, so that our fellow citizens would not be harmed by the advantages granted, in particular in tax matters, to those who would like to settle in France following the Brexit. The amendments were also intended to strengthen the monitoring of the economic and financial consequences of the measures adopted. The Socialist and related group will remain vigilant as to the scope and meaning of the measures taken by the Government. Its priority is the protection of France's interests, with a practical concern for social justice and balance. However, our discussions, which are very theoretical, are at present in clear contrast with the harshness of the debate across the Channel and the impasse in which Theresa May's government seems to be in. I repeat: Article 3 seems particularly important to me, since it will apply whatever the outcome of the forthcoming votes in the British Parliament and the European Parliament. It will enable our country to take urgent steps to remedy the re-establishment of controls, particularly in the north-west ports and at the level of the Channel Tunnel. However, as we pointed out at the hearings, material questions arise, particularly as regards the human and financial resources made necessary by these measures. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges also applauds]] In any case, Brexit offers us the opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the European Union. Of course, it is perfectable and will have to constantly evolve in order to adapt to the changing world and to the needs of European citizens. The British decision is a wake-up call. It must not, however, become the signal of departure for other countries which strongly question the legitimacy of institutions which remain dependent on the will of the Member States. We must reiterate that the European Union is nothing more than the fulfilment of the wishes of the Member States. We said Brexit will have to be a chance to move forward. The temptation to retreat must be ruled out. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u183	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u184	Last night, without surprise, British MEPs massively rejected the Brexit agreement negotiated with Brussels by Prime Minister Theresa May. Just two and a half months from the planned date for the UK's exit from the European Union and four months from the European elections, we are in a state of uncertainty. The national debate on the merits and disadvantages of membership of the European Union only opens now and the British people have just discovered the complexity and consequences of Brexit. Unfortunately, this debate is coming a little late. The Brexit agreement was a fair compromise and the best possible agreement, but it does not seem to satisfy the Europhiles, who support closer ties with the European Union, nor the Eurosceptics, who want a more frank break. Prime Minister Theresa May has until Monday to present Plan B. It could be tempted to renegotiate the agreement in Brussels, but apart from a few clarifications, the European negotiators went to the end of what could be done. It would be inconsistent to try to solve a problem of British domestic policy by forgetting the interests of Europeans. As the Head of State pointed out, the pressure is rather at home. What can the United Kingdom do now? The current situation brings us closer to a Brexit without agreement, which makes it even more necessary to pass the bill enabling the Government to take the necessary measures by order. However, the possibility that there would eventually be no Brexit should not be ruled out, as a result of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union allowing the United Kingdom to decide unilaterally to waive the procedure under Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, without having to ask for the approval of the other Member States or for another referendum to be held. As for the request to postpone the date of Brexit, it might conflict with the text of the Treaties. Indeed, if that date is set beyond 30 June 2019, the date of the constitution of the new European Parliament, the United Kingdom will have to participate in the European elections which will take place between 23 and 26 May. In any event, the European Union and France must prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom must clarify its intentions as quickly as possible. The consequences of the UK's exit from the European Union raise concerns, particularly with regard to the free movement of persons and goods. As a reminder, 25 million tonnes of goods pass through the Channel Tunnel each year; We can easily imagine, in the event of unpreparation, the consequences of a re-establishment of borders! Despite the instinctive distrust that the use of ordinances provokes among parliamentarians, this enabling bill is justified by the need, in the current context, for a rapid response. That is why it is necessary and in the interest of the country to give the Government the means to prepare us for the consequences of the British withdrawal. It is important to recall that these measures will not replace the decisions of the European Union, but rather are intended to complement them. There are several points that need our attention. Firstly, we must remain attentive to the situation and rights of French nationals living in the United Kingdom. The Government will also take appropriate measures with regard to British nationals living in France, while taking into account the status granted by the United Kingdom to our nationals on its territory. In order to best prepare for the possible re-establishment of border controls with the United Kingdom, the Government may, by order, take measures to accelerate the development of premises, the installation or development of port, rail, airport and road infrastructure. On the other hand, we know, Madam Minister, that you are vigilant about the fate of officials of British nationality, who risk losing their status and advancement. It would be doubly tragic, for France and for these personnel, if any possibility of collaboration were lost. I would also like to return to this marotte, which is for me the free zones. Would it be possible to launch a study on port areas, which are likely to be affected by the UK's withdrawal from the European Union? Some French ports could qualify to become free zones. Such a measure would certainly benefit their economic health, as well as the preservation of jobs and businesses. The text before us provides protective answers for our citizens and businesses. It will enable France to anticipate the UK's exit from the European Union and adapt to all scenarios. I would like to welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, as well as the work done by the Special Committee, its chairman and its rapporteur. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bourlanges also applauds]] We do not like prescriptions – it is a pharmacist who tells you (Smiles) – but the urgency makes them necessary. In addition, we trust you, Madam Minister, to involve parliamentarians in their drafting, as far as possible, and to inform them of the decisions that the Government will have to take. That is why the IUD, Act and Independent Group will vote in favour of this enabling bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u185	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u186	The French Government wanted to send a strong signal to Westminster when it set the timetable for the consideration of this enabling bill. It was in fact Westminster who sent us yesterday a signal that was otherwise more striking. The British representative reiterated his rejection of the European Union's ultimatum, which was summarized as: "Beyond this agreement, no salvation. The almost unprecedented scale of this rejection must question even the most Euro-beaten. MEPs refused to accept blackmail, which was the only way to maintain the rules of free and undistorted competition, free movement of goods and services and fratricidal competition for workers, while the European Union rejects the bodies of migrants considered undesirable daily to the sea. This rejection of the hypocrisy of a "Union" which constantly advocates the great values of solidarity and humanity while trampling on them by directives, regulations and summits calling into question the votes of the citizens, we share it. This was the meaning of the victory of the "no" in the 2005 French and Dutch referendums, of the vote of the Greek people in 2015 against the austere stranglehold organized by the troika – the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank – and, at least in part, the British vote in favour of an exit from the European Union. Yesterday, commenting on the outcome of the House of Commons vote, Emmanuel Macron stated that there is no new agreement in sight since the European Union has nothing to concede. That is all the European Union can offer: humiliation for people who refuse to suffer the economic, ecological and social consequences of austere policies. Once again, through his statements, President Macron despises and delegitimizes the expression of the peoples who are most severely affected by unjust decisions, and who aspire to another European ideal than the promise of austerity for perpetuity and that the daily, harassmentous struggle for precarious jobs that pay badly. It denies them the right to reject a Europe of financial predation against the environment, a Europe incapable of taxing GAFA, the Europe of Monsanto and glyphosate, from the globalization of the rich to the detriment of the socialization of wealth. For, contrary to what Mr Macron said, the issue of yesterday's vote and what will happen next is not just a matter of domestic policy. What the British vote in favour of Brexit and then the vote in the House of Commons have brought to light is the lack of control of the peoples on the European machine: the impossibility of giving its opinion within the European Parliament with no autonomous legislative power, and the impossibility of coming out with dignity in order to avoid being crushed by the diktat of austerity, the agreement being only a chain of future trade agreements subordinated to the United Kingdom's submission to the demands of European ordoliberalism. In our previous debates on the subject, we, France, have proposed that we should not be able to apply to the new procedures between our two countries and to British companies rules similar to those which organise seconded work, i.e. social dumping and competition between workers. To this proposal, you have opposed a rejection – for the coup – of posture. However, you cannot fail to see that your policies exacerbate insecurity and no longer receive any support anywhere in Europe. The enabling bill is intended to secure the situation of some British people on French territory. Because we believe that this possibility should apply to all those who migrate, and not just to some on the basis of their nationality, we have proposed that at the same time be called into question the so-called agreements of the Touquet – and, from now on, of Sandhurst – which make France the border guard of Great Britain and create unacceptable living conditions in Calaisis, for those who try to join Britain at the risk of their lives, first, but also for the inhabitants. You rejected our amendment with a beautiful hypocrisy, considering – even though we were talking about migration! – that this was not the subject. In the wake of the historic defeat of Theresa May, who had been the spokesperson for the European Union, the Government must not take the path of a diplomatic relationship based on a revancchard spirit of bad law. To say "good luck" condescendingly, as President Macron did, is to deny the interdependencies that exist in fact between France and the United Kingdom. The main objectives of the rules of solidarity protectionism must be to guarantee, as a matter of priority, sufficient material living conditions for all persons residing in France and Great Britain, and to strictly respect the capacity of the ecosystem to produce resources for a given period of time. No one can predict what will happen in the next few weeks in the UK. Our role is to propose common solutions that make possible the emergence of another European model: a model which is not based on blackmail and humiliation of peoples and which does not exclude leaving the Union; a model based on political, economic and social cooperation for the benefit of peoples and the ecological transition. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Unfortunately, this is not the path chosen either by your government or by Theresa May, who share the same neoliberal and conservative project. Fortunately, it is the one we are building – we, that is, in France, France, France, and, in Britain, those around Jeremy Corbyn, with many other European partners such as Podemos in Spain, the Left Bloc in Portugal, the Red and Green Alliance in Denmark, among others. Together, we say with the same voice: "For the many, not the few"; "Now the people"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u187	[[Smile]] Excellent! Amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u188	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u189	We have before us a text that Minister Loiseau announced this morning on the public service that it would be voted on; I'm still going to try to make another voice heard. Yesterday's events across the Channel catch up with us, like the new episode of a bad, bouncing vaudeville which, according to the promoters of liberal Europe – who are at the same time the fosseurs of the European peoples – must be completed by one or the other of these two epilogues: either a harsh and punitive Brexit, without agreement, to learn to live for those who rebel; Or, better yet, an abandonment of Brexit that would mean "still vote, it's no use." In short, it is a matter of doing everything possible to ensure that a democratic vote expressed within the Union is not respected, and to explain that referendums are useless – in times running, it is risky; we know the song : remember 2005! [[Smile on the benches of the FI group and applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This morning, it was crocodile tears that were smirk in the corner at the announcement of the British Parliament's massive rejection of the unacceptable agreement that the European Commission wants to impose on a people who want to divorce for fault, in order to force them either to stay or to leave humiliated. This is the image Europe offers us! And, to achieve its ends, everything is good: the threat of the lightnings of hell in the event of a lack of agreement, the prolongation of supposed negotiations to make lasting the threat of the sword of Damocles, the questioning by a head of state – in this case, ours – of the legitimacy of the referendum on the ground that the British voters, he claims, would have been manipulated. What am I interfering with? This referendum was no more or less manipulated than the voters were in our presidential election!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u191	That is to say, in passing, the contempt that the expression of the people inspires – but it is not a scoop... So, at two months' notice, almost three years after the vote of a sovereign people, we have to take improvised measures in a context where nothing is resolved. Let us begin with the substance of the text we are considering. As we explained at the previous reading, we, the GDR Group, regret that successive governments did not think it was right to anticipate things since the vote in June 2016. But we understand better why today. Acting through ordinances – no matter how practical they may be for the Government – is not serious. I would like to remind you that Parliament is not here to help you, Madam Minister, but to vote for the laws that help the French and protect them. No trace of this aim in your last actions. Thus, the French government has missed the European negotiations on European corridors and left the ports of the countries of the North to the detriment of its own ports. It was the Members who asked you about this and you had to relaunch the negotiations so as not to lose the face in Brussels! In addition, the 2019 Finance Bill foresees an increase in the quota of customs officers that is ridiculous in view of the enormous needs to be expected in the event that the United Kingdom exits the European Union without agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u192	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u193	The Communist deputies have called on the Government on a number of occasions on this subject, but not a single one of our proposals has been taken up. However, it is by increasing the number of customs officers who are preparing to create a new border. I would like to point out to you, Madam Minister, that the only control device by scanner of the 3 million containers passing through the port of Le Havre is currently inoperative: the Sycoscan does not work! Nor did the Government want to hear from us about emergency measures to meet the need for veterinarians to accommodate products that meet French health standards. More generally, we strongly denounce the behaviour of the European Union and France in this divorce. Just as the French Government is using and abusing violence against yellow vests, as a confession of its inability to remedy the ills faced by the peoples and restore harmony, the European Commission is also using the rotting strategy. By not wanting to offer anything else to the British in a chain, or just an arm of honour, the Commission may expect that by watching the rebels it will calm the ardour of the other European peoples who reject a European Union disconnected from the realities experienced by its citizens. It is high time, on the contrary, to make a profound change in European policy in order to preserve this magnificent idea of the Union, but by changing course. And to this end – we have been telling you for a long time – we must give priority to social Europe, in order to finally stop the widespread harmonisation from the bottom and the competition of peoples, workers or ecosystems. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Because the Government has not sufficiently anticipated the situation and resorts to orders for comfort, because the State has made very poor preparations, particularly with regard to the organization of public services, the GDR group, as at the first reading, will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u194	It could be worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u195	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u196	For me, the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union is a real heartbreak. The ties that bind us in the United Kingdom, we in the West of France, especially the Britons, are very strong. They are cultural, especially musical – I am thinking of the interceltic festival of Lorient. They are such as it is sometimes said of the Welsh, in a manner of defiance, that they are Bretons who do not know how to swim, because they did not cross the Channel between the 5th and the 8th century to come to settle in what was then called Armorique and which became Brittany. We, Bretons, are so close to the Welsh that we have exactly the same hymn, that we sing together when we meet. After the massive rejection yesterday by the British Parliament of the negotiated agreement, we must note that the most pessimistic prophecies are being realized: we are finally heading for a hard Brexit. This is not a miscarriage – the United Kingdom is free to act as it does and we would be ill-inspired to tell it what it has to do – but we are facing an unsustainable situation, and of course we are not the only ones. This bad news creates a lot of uncertainty. I am thinking in particular of a friendly country – France, Brittany, Europe – Ireland, which is looking forward to knowing what sauce it is going to be eaten. As chairman of the France-Ireland friendship group of the National Assembly, I was able to visit the border in Dundalk; We met both Northern Irish and Irish from the Republic of Ireland, who told us that there was no need for a border, for fear that the Good Friday agreement would be transformed and that the civil war that ended in 1999 would not be reborn. Ireland, of course, also raises the question of freight, since 80% of its exports have so far passed through the United Kingdom. We need to coordinate so that Irish freight can eventually continue to transit there – but this requires an agreement – or that it is directly welcomed into European ports. The French Government has therefore intervened with the European Commission on the French ports of the English Channel, and even those of the Atlantic – because the Port of Nantes is also on the road, this great Breton port if it is historically dedicated, with Saint-Nazaire, to departures to the South and, in the past, to Guadeloupe and Martinique.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u197	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u198	We had to organize ourselves and take the necessary action. We still have some uncertainties about customs officials. We will see whether there are two lines of lorries, one for British lorries and the other for Irish lorries which would have been passing through the United Kingdom. Of course, all this is a little complicated. It goes without saying that the Libertés et Territoires Group will also be watching carefully the fate which will be reserved for fishing. Basque fishermen, but also Breton fishermen, are concerned, our fishing areas being located in the North-East Atlantic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u199	What about the Normans? What about the Dieppois?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u200	You're right – but you're in the North Sea, and we're in the Scottish Sea. In fact, the Irish have only one fear: that all this world would come to the Irish Sea, which would diminish their resources. So we have to deal with a number of problems. Fortunately, we make our decisions quickly. Knowing British pragmatism, one might have thought that, as the deadline approached, the agreement was going to be approved – we knew precedents of this kind in history. Finally, it seems that divisions are too important to allow it. That is why Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for this text. It is simply a matter of guaranteeing the safety of British citizens in France – and there are many in Brittany who asked me what they would become: will they be obliged to justify a residence permit? [[Applause on the benches of the LT and MODEM groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore hope that we will reach agreement on all these issues in order to continue to live intelligently with the United Kingdom, even if it is no longer part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u201	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u202	As the United Kingdom's exit date from the European Union is inexorably approaching, we need to examine definitively the modalities of this withdrawal within a strictly national framework. Yesterday's vote in the British Parliament, although it is not surprising, now obliges us to move forward in unknown terrain. It is because we are in uncertainty that we must now consider all eventualities. I stress that this bill allows us to anticipate and avoid too much uncertainty at the time of the actual departure of the United Kingdom, because we must be clear: an exit without agreement now seems difficult to avoid. As a matter of urgency, the use of orders is justified. For example, the re-establishment of physical borders and customs controls will have to take place within a limited period of time. In this sense, we are also following the recommendations of the European Council, which, in its conclusions of 29 June 2018, prompted the Member States to intensify their preparatory work with a view to withdrawal, regardless of the modalities. Indeed, it is imperative that we draw the consequences of the departure of our British friends and allies. However, this exit does not mean the end of our relations and cooperation: these essential points will subsequently be the subject of extensive negotiations between our two countries. This is therefore the purpose of this text, which combines both prospects for withdrawal without agreement and more general measures intended to apply in both cases when leaving the United Kingdom. The main measures concern the status of persons and mainly British nationals in France, the preservation of French interests and the maintenance of conditions for trade in goods and capital. These measures include all cases relating to freedom of movement: road transport of goods or persons on French national territory by persons established in the United Kingdom; control of goods and passengers to and from the United Kingdom; veterinary and phytosanitary checks on imports from the United Kingdom; the continuity of passenger and freight transport flows between France and the United Kingdom through the Channel Tunnel; Finally, the creation of a special procedural regime of work and adjustments with a view to the urgent re-establishment of border controls. Progress has been made in committee. I am thinking of the restoration of the six-month deadline for the tabling of the bill to ratify the ordinances, of the precise measures that the Government will be empowered to take within the framework of the latter, of the emphasis on the defence of all the French interests which may be affected by these measures and, above all, of the retention for British nationals, who are employed as staff members in the French civil service, of their status after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Through its obligations, previously laid down by Parliament, the British Prime Minister must present possible alternatives following this vote by 21 January. However, her position was extremely fragile, since Ms. May would now face a motion of censure again. We now have many uncertainties, both as a nation and as a union. Whatever happens, our bilateral economic relations will have to be governed as a matter of urgency. In recent weeks, unfortunately, we have been able to observe a certain lack of preparation on the part of the United Kingdom, which could be detrimental to everyone and not only to him. The queues and border control times have not been sufficiently anticipated, the risks of a sudden breakdown in the supply chain of goods do not appear to have been measured, and the economic assessments carried out by local experts suggest a worrying situation for the UK's future. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The measures provided for in the text, if they do not solve all the situations, allow at least the most urgent solution, the priority being to prepare ourselves individually. These are the interests of the Union, of France and above all of all of these families who have been established on both sides of the English Channel and who we must protect. For these reasons, the Members of the Group of the Republic on the move invite you to authorize the Government to take by order the measures of preparation for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u203	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u204	[[Alexandre Holroyd, rapporteur, applauds]] The House of Commons yesterday, by an overwhelming majority, rejected the exit agreement negotiated between the United Kingdom and the European Union. This vote directs us to a "no deal", an exit without agreement, on March 29th at midnight Paris time. Even if we expected it, this vote requires a rapid response from France in order to limit the damage of this "loser-loser" situation. Members of the Republican Group will act responsibly by voting in favour of this bill. However, we would have appreciated the fact that the French government, too, is acting responsibly and speeding up preparations for this disaster scenario,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u205	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u206	...disastrophe for the British, but also for our country, especially for our border regions, including the Calaisis that I represent, a territory through which 50% of the inflows into the island from the continent pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u207	They also go through Brittany!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u208	The vote of British citizens took place on 23 June 2016 and Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union was activated on 29 March 2017. Yet no one really wanted to believe in Brexit and the consequence is clear: we will not be ready on March 30, 2019. The responsibility for this failure lies directly with the government to which you, the minister, belong. The number of veterinarians needed to control goods arriving at our ports, airports and via the Channel Tunnel? You don't know him. The number of customs officers assigned to the controls? It is largely insufficient compared to that of our European neighbours. And I dare not talk about the infrastructure needed to accommodate these personnel, which obviously will not be delivered in time and time and will have to be created urgently on the basis of modulars. Your lack of anticipation will actually mean one thing: on the morning of March 30, nothing will change. You will close your eyes to the minimum controls that will be carried out in our ports and act as if the United Kingdom were still a member of the European Union,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u209	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u210	... endangering the integrity of the common market. This situation could have been avoided if only you had put the means into it. Let me quote a neutral personality, Jacques Gounon, President and CEO of Getlink, who last week said: "The criticism I have to make is the lack of return of the centralized state which is in the dark and which has not made any serious anticipation. Our difficulty is that the state cannot tell us exactly what they will need. Until customs and veterinary services clarify their space and infrastructure needs, Eurotunnel cannot deposit building permits. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u211	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u212	You see, Madam Minister, as it stands, your orders are of no use because you are simply unable, ten weeks from the actual exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, to assess French needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u213	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u214	In the Calaisis, you had two possibilities, for several months, to clear the goods and carry out the various checks. A solution proposed by the elected representatives, namely a single place bringing together goods coming from the port and the tunnel, or another solution, that of two places at the two entrance doors. The meetings, the round tables did nothing about it: in six months, you were not ruined to give us a simple answer, opposing a guilty silence to avoid ruling!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u215	Is that a way of addressing a minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u216	So the tunnel and the port had to invest to make up for your lack of confidence and decision-making procrastination,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u217	"What is excessive is insignificant. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u218	... without knowing – and this is still the case today – what personnel you will make available on their sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u219	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u220	To this decision-making procrastination, we must add the failure to speak. Emmanuel Macron told the Financial Times on March 3, 2016 that in the event of Brexit, there would be no more migrants in Calais. Have you started negotiating with the United Kingdom in this direction? No. Worse: you even thank the British for their millions that allow us to continue playing their border guards and disfigure the coast of Opale with barbed wires and grills. Every night, the price of your lack of political courage,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u221	Where is your political courage?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u222	...these are dozens of makeshift boats crossing the Strait of Pas-de-Calais, risking transforming the Channel into a new Mediterranean. [["That's not true! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, ten weeks from Brexit, the border regions still do not know whether they will be able to practice duty free, nor the government, moreover, since your statements before the commission contradict those of the minister of action and public accounts, Gérald Darmanin. Madam Minister, I will not go by four paths: if there is a border, there must be duty free because it is a just right of the regions that will be directly affected by Brexit. So many border regions, Brittany, Normandy, Hauts-de-France, where our sinners still do not know where they will be able to practice their profession in seventy days.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u223	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u224	Elected from Calaisis, I also ask the French Government to take concrete action to put an end to the abusive and anti-competitive support provided by the British Government for the creation of new shipping lines – a British government that has financed, for £107 million, three British companies, one of which, ghost, currently has no boats, no home port, no employees, no website. The goal? To divert part of the traffic from the port of Calais. This is unacceptable and your responsibility is to ensure that the interests of French ports are fully preserved. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] In 2015, the Minister of Economy, a certain Emmanuel Macron, sacrificed the shipping company MyFerryLink, its sailors, its families and its subcontractors, declaring here in the Chamber that he could not do anything to save it from British protectionist assaults. In 2019, this same Emmanuel Macron cannot decently, once again, sacrifice the border areas, the Calaisis and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u225	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche and the Mouvement Démocratique et affiliés groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. ............................................................................................................. I will now put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u226	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 68 Number of votes cast 64 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 63 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u227	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u228	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u229	The next item is the continuation of the discussion, on a new reading, of the draft 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill (No. 1503, 1548).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u230	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with Amendment No. 2 to Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u231	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 2 and 426. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u232	This is an amendment to coordinate with the amendment that proposes the deletion of section 12 of the bill, in order to maintain the conciliation phase in the litigation divorce proceedings. If clause 12 of the bill is deleted, it is necessary to restore – as is the case today – the judge's inability to delegate this conciliation to a family mediator. It is during this phase that the judge receives the parties for initial contact and decides on the interim measures necessary for the functioning of the family until the divorce is pronounced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u233	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 426.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u234	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u235	Mrs Laetitia Avia, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u236	As Mr Masson has just pointed out, this provision ensures coordination with Article 12. Consistency therefore requires an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u237	The Minister of Justice, the guardian of the seals, has the floor to give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u238	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u239	I have before me three amendments, Nos 42, 580 and 348, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 42 and 580 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u240	Section 2 of the bill gives the judge, when he or she considers that an amicable resolution of the dispute is possible, the opportunity to instruct the parties to meet with a mediator at any stage of the proceedings, including interim proceedings. However, you are aware that the interim procedure allows for a prompt or even immediate examination of the case. It allows the litigant to request the judge to adopt interim measures promptly pending the trial on the merits that will settle the dispute. I am afraid that, as it stands, mediation can only call into question the very value of an interim procedure. That is why you are asked that this possibility of mediation not be opened in the event of an emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u241	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to support Amendment No. 580.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u242	Defendant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u243	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 348.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u244	You are constantly telling us that this reform of the justice system reflects a desire for simplification and acceleration to enable the people of the country to obtain the long-awaited decision as soon as possible. If we do not exclude the interim procedure from the possibility for magistrates at any time to order mediation, we will run counter to that will. I would like to point out that the judge for interim measures is both a judge of urgency and a judge of obviousness. It is sufficient to take a date in front of him to obtain a hearing and, at the conclusion of this hearing, an order setting out the problem or ordering the necessary interim measures. If there is mediation, the trial judge will set at that hearing the time limit for recording prior to mediation, the time limit for mediation to take place, and a possible date for dismissal. There will be an unnecessary waste of time or even aggravation of a number of situations, since the purpose of the interim measure may, in the context of the emergency, be to stop a disorder of public order or to order an urgent measure. This is not reasonable, and it is contradictory to the very vocation of the summons and the judge of obviousness. At the very least, it seems to me good to exclude this procedure from the possibility open to judges to order mediation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u245	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u246	Unfavorable opinion. The purpose of these provisions is precisely to leave this possibility to the judge in the context of his freedom of assessment. It will be up to him to assess the situations in which it may be appropriate to propose that the parties meet with a mediator to enable them to come closer and reach an amicable settlement of the dispute. I repeat, it is only a matter of allowing the judge to propose, and not of forcing the parties to initiate a mediation process. I would like to take this opportunity to return to the debate that opposed us last night in a somewhat tense atmosphere. It was a question of determining the status of this meeting with the mediator, and I mentioned the fact that in certain matters, particularly in the context of social appeal proceedings, the judge can already invite the parties to engage in a mediation process. You answered me with a certain virulence, Mr Savignant, saying two things: first, that this mechanism did not exist, that it was conciliation and that we cannot order mediation in social matters; Second, I didn't know what I was talking about. I would like to refer to a document that I have before me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u247	Why put a room back in the machine?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u248	Because I think it's important to clarify things. This is a pre-trial case before the Social Chamber of the Court of Appeal of Versailles. It states that the judge in charge of the case invites the parties to attend an information meeting at the mediation centre. This appointment is mandatory. This is indeed a judicial mediation, not a conciliation, as is apparent from the next paragraph where the procedure is precisely described. If I come back to this point, it is for everyone to be well aware of what we are talking about in the context of the examination of these provisions. We are talking about information meetings that should allow the parties, including interim proceedings, to come closer in order to find a way to resolve their dispute otherwise than by judicial means. That is the point of this provision, and that is why I am against these amendments as well as all those who seek to abolish this mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u249	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u250	Allow me to take two minutes to explain the Government's unfavorable opinion on your amendments. Indeed, the judge must be free to set up a mediation procedure, even on an interim order. A judge told me very recently that it was very often used when he was referred to factory occupations and that mediation could, in such cases, be a factor in appeasement. That is why I think it is very important to leave this freedom to the judge. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u251	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u252	You remain in the same confusion, rapporteur. Last night, I wasn't telling you that mediation was not possible in front of the social chamber. You were exposing me that in front of the social chambers of the Court of Appeal, there was a mediator available who was waiting, ready to receive the parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u253	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u254	There is no mediator, since no one would bear the burden. There are indeed conciliators, and that is all the confusion between the conciliator and the mediator. Rehearse our debate, as I have taken care to do by acquiring consciousness: you will see that you have done well this confusion – voluntary or involuntary – between two different processes. Conciliation is a process that is not the responsibility of the person in question, and therefore not detrimental to my opinion. The same is not true of mediation. I maintain that the proposed provision is totally contradictory with the very vocation of the reference. If the judge is in a position to order mediation for the dispute to be settled, it is because there is a real and serious challenge in the defence – since there is both a plaintiff and a defendant in the interlocutory proceedings. However, this real and serious challenge is exclusive to the jurisdiction of the interim judge. He therefore cannot order mediation. It must declare itself incompetent in order to hear the dispute and refer the parties to the merits of the case better. It is therefore once again a waste of time, since if mediation does not succeed, the judge for interim measures will have no alternative but to declare his or her incompetence and to refer the parties to the substantive court. It is not in line with the interim measure as conceived by our procedural provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u255	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u256	I would add that the mechanism of the interim measure, which works well, allows access to the judge in very short periods of time when the urgency is effective and the case is serious. It is rather paradoxical to insist on access to the judge in interim proceedings and to promote mediation, as this means that the case is neither urgent nor serious and may deserve treatment other than judicial. I would like to draw your attention to this point: you are changing the philosophy of referenda. We have not tabled an amendment on this subject, but in any case it seems to us that the mechanism you are proposing must be framed by a time limit, because the time limits for deciding a dispute may be further extended. This text does not at any time state a time limit for the judge to make a decision, and that is missing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u257	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u258	Two words in response to Mr Savignat's remarks. Unlike him, I think mediation can be very useful in an interim procedure. The somewhat classic example is that of the reference-expertise, referred to as "recommended 145" – as provided for in Article 145 of the new Code of Civil Procedure – which aims, before saying right, to have an expert appointed so that he can identify a number of technical, material, etc. It is often in this type of dispute that the judge for interim measures – in any case, this is the current practice of some of them – can order mediation in order to avoid the procedure on the merits which should normally follow the expert referral. Traditional example: the expert referral to have a judicial expert ascertain an encroachment of property between two neighbours. It is par excellence in this type of dispute over their respective real rights, before litigation, that mediation can take on its full meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u259	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u260	I support what Mr Mazars has said. Mrs Untermaier, the judge for interim measures is not always seized in urgent cases. It may also take interim measures such as the appointment of an expert. When urgent cases are brought to his attention, in which it is urgent to make a decision, he will not take the risk of ordering such mediation. In all other cases – a typical example: a request for judicial expertise before saying right – it will be possible for the parties, depending on what the parties may have said, to assess in concretola the possibility for the latter to try mediation. Once again, the judge for interim measures is not just that of urgency: he can intervene in other cases, which have been perfectly described by my colleague Mazars.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u261	Mr. Antoine Savignat has the floor – briefly, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u262	Two words! In my view, the request for expertise on the basis of Article 145 is the worst example of any...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u263	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u264	... since it concerns the right before say, beyond any legal basis and any existing litigation. The purpose of this request is to preserve evidence or to find evidence in the event of future proceedings. If this is the case at the end of the assessment, the judge will have every opportunity to order mediation, as the text will provide. In my view, article 145 is the absolute counter-example of what you want to propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u265	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u266	So you abound in my sense. Given the logical explanation you have just given, you can only vote for our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u267	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u268	I confirm what Mr Savignat has said. The request and appointment of an expert on the basis of Article 145 of the new Code of Civil Procedure are of course aimed at seeing disorder in order, then, to seek responsibilities – at this point in the procedure, statements by bailiffs were made in order to be able to refer the matter to the judge. In such a context, mediation should not be used. It must never be forgotten that the purpose of the summons is to obtain a court order quickly: a summons to eightteen, a hearing and a case that has been deliberated. What would mediation do in such a process? I strongly believe in alternative means of resolving disputes, but you must understand, Madam Minister, that this mediation cannot be used in interim proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u269	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 350.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u270	In the same vein, since the objective remains not to waste time on the litigants and to enable them to obtain a decision quickly, this amendment aims to exclude the possibility for the magistrate to order mediation after pleadings or, in the case of pre-trial proceedings, after the closing order has been issued. In both cases, in the end, both parties "purged" the dispute, exchanged all of their documents and writings, and waited only for the decision of the magistrate. When the pre-trial procedure is mandatory, the exchanges are long, lawyers are free to come closer, the parties are aware of the arguments of each other and if there was a real willingness on both sides to reach a solution, they would have succeeded. After this procedure and even when the pleadings have taken place, when the parties have a date of deliberation – which, in view of the congestion of the courts, is often set at two, three or four months after the oral hearing – a decision ordering mediation would further unnecessarily prolong the length of the proceedings and thus delay the time when the dispute will be decided. The aim of this amendment is, therefore, that the possibility for the magistrate to order mediation should be constrained in time and procedure so as not to unnecessarily prolong the examination of the files.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u271	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u272	Unfavorable opinion. It is not possible to say that the dispute is "punished" before the pleadings, which are an important moment in the litigation during which the parties hear counsel present all the arguments and where a reconciliation can still take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u274	Such a situation may be rare, but there is no reason why it is no longer possible. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u275	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u276	One word. I am satisfied because the rapporteur has just given the answer I was waiting for: pleadings are an important moment for the parties because they hear the explanations of the lawyers and become aware of the importance of the dispute. With your text, the magistrate will only hear the parties if he wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u277	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u278	That's exactly what you're proposing. If the magistrate considers that he does not have to hear the parties, he will not hear them. So you do not allow them to become aware of all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u279	No, that's not true! We will discuss this again during the discussion of Article 13!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u280	We will not discuss it again, since we are talking about it now! The argument may be important, but as the arguments have been exchanged, it does not bring anything new to the substance of the case, of which the parties are fully aware. Once again, they will be lured with illusions by implying that, at the end of this hearing, they will get a decision when they may not get it – or perhaps several months later.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u281	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 349.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u282	Its objective is the same as the previous ones: to go faster and to reduce the cost for litigants. Since both parties are assisted by lawyers, since there is no question of weakening one of them, and when lawyers attest to an attempt to reconcile prior to any referral to the court or during the proceedings, the magistrate must not be able to order mediation. I would remind you that lawyers are professionals of the law, that they are auxiliaries of justice, and that if they attest to an attempt at rapprochement, there is no reason to question their words. There is no need to waste more time and money on litigants by ordering mediation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u284	Once again, the judge will have the opportunity to assess all of these situations, so to judge whether or not it is appropriate to order mediation. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u286	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u287	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u288	I would remind you that the judge does not have "the opportunity to": under article 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, he has an obligation to decide the dispute before him and he alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u289	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u290	I would point out that not one case looks like another and that disputes can find an amicable solution at any stage of the proceedings. I, for my part, have sometimes signed transactional agreements during the deliberations, without having yet to dispose of the judge's decision and without an appeal. Sometimes a little time is needed. I know that many lawyers and legal professionals offer mediations and that a little time is sometimes needed – a plea heard, a possibility of reconciliation, etc. It is essential that the judge be able to propose mediation at any time during the proceedings. I'm going back to your remarks, my dear colleague. You know that pleadings do not take place in all jurisdictions. The practice of filing files is indeed very common and pleading is not an end in itself. In any event, it is important to leave the door open for mediation at all stages. There are people who need a little time. In short, the opportunity to find the right time for mediation must be retained. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Again, I think that your amendment is not appropriate to encourage friendly settlements. However, where possible, litigants prefer this route, because they thus avoid very difficult litigation, because waiting for appeal decisions and continuing to exchange arguments is never easy – even if professionals are used to it. Let's think first of all about the interest of the defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u291	I call Mrs Bareigts to support Amendment No. 797.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u292	The amicable settlement of conflicts exists in family law. However, in cases of domestic violence, mediation is only possible with the consent of the victim. This principle does not preclude a major risk that may result in the victim not asserting his or her rights: these are cases where the victim is in a position of control, which may prevent him or her from refusing mediation. This amendment is simple: it aims to maintain the strength of this principle by specifying it directly in the articles organising mediation. You will probably answer, Madam Minister, that this proposal is satisfied; But we are in an area where strength and precision of the law are particularly useful to protect victims at risk of being under control. This would in any case address the concerns expressed by many associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u294	This amendment had already been tabled in committee at first reading, and it had been withdrawn because it was satisfied. You are targeting domestic violence, whether it is already committed or suspected. In the first case, the force of the Civil Code applies: the provisions of article 373-2-10 provide that the judge may not require the parties to meet with a family mediator when violence has been committed by one of the parents on the other parent or on the child. In the second case, it is clear that the judge will not order mediation either. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, recalling the importance of the protection of the weakest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u296	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u297	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3 and 244. Mr Jean-Louis Masson has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u298	The purpose of this amendment is to remove the extension of the scope of the obligation to attempt amicable settlement of disputes prior to referral to the judge, provided for in section 2 II of the bill. In the first place, the chosen wording results in a restriction of the methods of settlement of the admitted disputes, by listing only conciliation by a conciliator of justice, mediation and participatory procedure, while at present the parties can justify having fulfilled their obligation to attempt to settle their dispute amicably by invoking other diligences undertaken – within the framework of a legal protection insurance or by appealing to a judicial officer, for example. Secondly, the scope of the scheme is imprecise. It does not provide sufficient security for the parties and is conducive to the complexity of litigation. Finally, thirdly, the mechanism put in place in the law of 18 November 2016 to modernize justice in the twenty-first century is too recent to produce all its effects and has not yet been evaluated. What is the point of proposing an extension of this mechanism if it cannot be said with certainty that it has had a positive impact on the number of cases brought before the courts of first instance?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u299	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 244.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u300	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u302	As I have pointed out on many occasions, the idea behind article 2 is to better define the obligation set out in the Law on the Modernization of Justice of the Twenty-first Century and to develop mechanisms to promote the rapprochement of the parties, whether conciliation, mediation or participatory procedure. The text indicates that a decree in the Council of State will specify the manner in which these provisions are to be applied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u304	Unfavorable opinion, too. We seek to make an attempt at conciliation, mediation or participatory procedure mandatory, but this does not mean imposing an agreement on the parties that they would not like. To embark on such a course is to maximize the chances of reaching an amicable settlement. This is an incentive to resolve a dispute prior to a trial and it seems to us interesting to broaden the scope of these processes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u305	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 245.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u306	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u307	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor to support Amendment No. 581.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u308	In the present case, the disputes concerned are those in which representation by a lawyer is not already mandatory. However, this article proposes to make the attempt at conciliation mandatory and pre-emptive. However, conciliation cannot be imposed without hearing the parties' reservations about conciliation itself. In addition, in some territories, more than you think, particularly the overseas territories, we have to face a shortage of conciliators, which will inevitably increase the time taken for referrals and processing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u309	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u310	You want to make it clear that these provisions do not apply where legal representation is not mandatory. Your amendment is already satisfactory, since it will apply to disputes of less than EUR 5000. Article 4 refers to decrees which will specify that legal representation is not compulsory for disputes of less than 10000 euros. Furthermore, article 2 states that in the event of the unavailability of the conciliators of justice, these provisions shall not apply. An exception is indeed foreseen if the public conciliation service cannot be mobilised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u311	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u312	On the substance, we have the same opinion as the rapporteur. I would like to make a number of figures, Mr President. In the summary of your amendment, you point out that there is a shortage of conciliators, especially in Martinique. As of July 31, 2018, the date of the last census, there were 20 conciliators in operation at the Court of Appeal of Fort-de-France, a ratio of one conciliator per 18,000 inhabitants, which is higher than the average recorded in metropolitan France. Perhaps we need to recruit more, but you cannot argue about the low number of conciliators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u313	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor to support Amendment No. 584.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u314	The bill provides that the judge may ex officio raise the inadmissibility of the application if there is no attempt to reconcile. This indicates, contrary to what you have been trying to make us accept since yesterday, that conciliation is mandatory. There is an inconsistency between, on the one hand, the confidentiality surrounding the attempt at amicable resolution and, on the other, the penalty of inadmissibility. How can the parties be punished for failing to disclose an amicable settlement attempt when they are required to keep this attempt confidential? The purpose of this amendment is to remove this ambiguity in Article 2, paragraph 8. It will also be used to test the Government's spirit of openness. If you do not accept this amendment, minister, I do not think you will accept many others, especially those from the opposition benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u315	[[Smile]] That is what the Government is looking for!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u316	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u317	We accepted amendments from the opposition at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u318	Not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u320	If I also express an unfavorable opinion, honourable Member, it is not in the name of a position of principle but because I have a substantive divergence from what you call an obligation of confidentiality. As the rapporteur has just made clear, this obligation relates to the findings and statements collected, not to whether or not there has been an attempt at conciliation, a purely factual element.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u321	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u322	Forgive me for telling you, Madam rapporteur, that I have detected flaws in your argument, which I have taken the time to listen to. You're saying that to prove that there was an attempt to mediate, you need a certificate from a lawyer. However, the disputes in question are precisely disputes where legal representation is not mandatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u323	I'm afraid Mr. Nilor is right...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u324	How can we justify an approach that has not actually been taken? You're going to set up a two-speed system. Let us take the case of a dispute concerning the payment of an invoice from a large telecommunications company. This company already has a battery of lawyers within it. The taxpayer citizen will not have a lawyer and he will arrive in a position of weakness at the attempt to conciliation or mediation that will be imposed on him. He will not have a perfect knowledge of the law when his opponent has already done legal work because he has the means to surround himself with legal professionals. This justice through mediation or conciliation will therefore widen a gap between those who can actually defend themselves because they already have lawyers and those who cannot defend themselves, mistaken that they will be by the idea that the resolution of the dispute does not require the presence of a lawyer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u325	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u326	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u327	I will try to reassure you about the mediation and conciliation procedures and their outcomes. Both parties go to the trial court and the judge proposes an attempt at conciliation, most of the time when the parties are not assisted by a lawyer. The parties then withdraw to a small room to be heard by the conciliator. If the latter finds that there is no agreement within the framework of this first meeting, he will draw up what is called a record of non-conciliation. This document, which is very formal, is perfectly clear and there is no reason why it should change. The conciliator indicated that he had met with Mr. or Ms. X and Mr. or Ms. Y and that, after presenting their differences, they could not agree. Either party will then be able to present this signed document to the judge to justify that the attempt has failed. This does not, in my view, pose a problem of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u328	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u329	You are quoting an ideal case, dear colleague, because it is not always possible, for lack of sufficient human resources, to organise conciliation or mediation on the same day. Most often, appointments are postponed. On the other hand, while the judge is simply proposing today to resort to these alternative means of dispute resolution, he will impose it tomorrow, whether you admit it or not. It's not exactly the same thing...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u330	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 578.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u331	This Article 2 is concerned, but you have refused, since the beginning of its consideration, to adopt amendments which could reassure the protagonists. However, the reform of the justice system could neither alter its quality nor restrict access to it. Attempts at amicable resolution should be encouraged, but the imposition of mediation could make access to the judge more complex. It seems inappropriate to limit possible amicable resolution procedures. Therefore, this amendment tends to remove the new restriction provided for in the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u333	The text provides for three amicable dispute resolution processes: mediation, conciliation and participatory procedure. You propose to target any attempt at amicable resolution of disputes. This wording, which lacks clarity, is not in line with the conclusions of the first reading debates, since we decided to be precise and to make explicit reference to mediation as defined by the 1995 Act. It is important, in order to protect our citizens well, to specifically target the procedures to which they may resort in the context of the amicable settlement of disputes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u334	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 346 and 585. I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 346.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u335	The wording of paragraph 11 was surreal. You will agree with me that the law must be clear, accessible and understood by all. You make an exception to the attempt to resolve the dispute prior to referral to the judge by providing that it is possible not to resort to any of the amicable means of resolution mentioned in the first paragraph in case of legitimate grounds. Let's imagine that my neighbor is building a wall that he thinks is on the limit of his property and that I, poor Savignat, believe that this wall is actually encroaching on my property. I can consider it legitimate not to have any time to waste in a conciliation and decide to immediately seize a magistrate, because the wall is being set up and there is an urgent need to act! You give the example of "unavailability of conciliators of justice within a reasonable time", but for me, who wait for the dispute to be settled, the time limit will by definition be unreasonable. Indeed, I have only one haste: to call on the judge to settle the dispute as quickly as possible. Imagine the volume of case law to which this type of article will lead! My amendment therefore seeks to clarify that the exemption from prior conciliation may be allowed in case of urgency or in consideration of the matter in question, in particular when it concerns public policy. In the area of neighbourhood conflict, encroachment on the property of others and infringement of the property of others is a matter of public order. This provision would make it possible to shed light on the accused because, as it stands, I do not see how he could understand this paragraph.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u336	That's concrete!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u337	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor to support Amendment No. 585.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u338	This amendment is identical. We must make sense of these measures. That's the whole difference between show and field justice, software justice and men's justice. The bill proposes to consider the unavailability of court conciliators within a reasonable period of time as a legitimate ground. The concept of legitimate grounds should be extended to include urgency and certain matters such as public order. It is an amendment of pure common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u340	The text aims at a broader and therefore more protective wording. It refers only to the legitimate ground, which will allow the judge to assess the situations, in particular those you have mentioned – whether it is an emergency or a breach of public order. The adoption of these amendments, which would lead to limiting legitimate grounds to urgency and breach of public order, would prevent the judge from "receiving" certain situations, from adapting to each case. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u342	Same opinion, for the same reasons. Legitimate motive is a fairly common notion in our law; It's not unusual, we're used to handling it. It is therefore not absurd to leave it to the sovereign discretion of the judges, who, on a case-by-case basis, will appreciate its reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u343	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u344	What a gas factory! As a first step, we are told that conciliation or mediation will be mandatory. Then, exceptions are made to this principle, according to the judge's assessment – which will probably take some time before deciding. Do you realize what you're putting in place? Colleagues suggest that you simplify the scheme, including for the judge, when public order is at issue, but you still prefer a broader motive! Finally, you want, in an unreasonable way, to extend the obligation to go through conciliation or mediation very widely. However, you acknowledge – in the same paragraph – that there is a lack of conciliators in the country, since their unavailability within a reasonable period of time would be a legitimate reason not to resort to conciliation. We're walking on the head! You yourself see the perverse effects of your own gas plant. It would be more reasonable to adopt the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u345	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u346	I am terrified by this will to leave to the judge the ability to appreciate what a legitimate motive will be. We are legislators, we have to shoulder our responsibilities in deciding what is legitimate. The judge, once he has been told that the breach of public order is a legitimate ground, may assess whether or not, in the light of the facts before him, there is a breach of public order; But he cannot be left to define the legitimate motive, since it would then vary from Lille to Marseille, from Strasbourg to Lyon, from Nevers to Versailles at the expense of the necessary legal certainty. I know that they do not matter to you, but imagine the embarrassment of the legal professionals who will bring the case before the Tribunal de grande instance in Nantes without prior conciliation by assuring their clients that they have a legitimate reason to refrain from doing so, in accordance with the recent jurisprudence of the Tribunal de grande instance in Poitiers. If the magistrate of Nantes decides that this ground is not legitimate, the lawyer will have taken responsibility, he will have deceived his client by making him believe that there was a legitimate ground, all because the magistrate will have been allowed to interpret the law freely! This is not good and it is contrary to the functioning of justice as we know it today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u347	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u348	There are matters in which you consider that the judge's discretion must be corseted – as in labour law when it comes to defining, capping the compensations. You have reserved little room for the imperium of the judge, for his ability to appreciate the dispute and the damage. Moreover, it is pleased that the advice of the workers opposed it on the basis of texts of an international dimension. And there, you take refuge, because it suits you, behind the importance you would attach to the judge's discretion. Beyond the fact that the law would no longer be the same for all over the whole territory, as our colleague from the benches opposite, you would maintain a blur that would not allow to take into account the matter, the urgency and the disorder to the public order. That is what the two amendments proposed propose, and you would be well advised to accept them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u349	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u350	I'll try to convince Mr. Savignat. His amendment is a good misconception. As the rapporteur said, the freedom left to the judge to assess the legitimate nature of the ground for excluding the obligation to resort to amicable settlement of disputes protects the person in question far more than the restriction of the concept to breach of public order. Let us take the example of the construction of this wall. Let us assume that you will spend ten, fifteen, twenty years before taking legal action: the judge will challenge you with the statute of limitations. If you do not bring this claim of ownership within a certain period of time, the judge will object to the limitation. One could multiply this case to the envious: in order not to lose the possibility of an action to the justiciable, the judge can invoke the legitimate ground. Limitation periods may be one, but they are not the only one. Therefore, reducing the legitimate ground for breach of public order would be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u351	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u352	It is necessary to be in bad faith to consider that this amendment tends to close the definition of what is a legitimate ground. You already make an exception to the principle that you enact in this article by referring to "notably the unavailability of conciliators of justice within a reasonable time". You're the one who closes this definition! The breach or disorder of public order must also be considered special, exceptional. You prefer to stick to your closed definition and deprive yourself of an enrichment of this notion that could avoid some difficulties afterwards. I do not understand why mentioning the breach of public order would close the definition of legitimate cause. The term "in particular" is used, not "exclusively"! You understand the difference, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u353	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u354	The objective of this article is indeed to extend these structured processes, namely mediation, conciliation, etc. But we are not inventing anything, including in the formulation. You said at the moment, Mr Savignant, that the provisions we are debating were contrary to the current foundations of our justice. You are wrong: the so-called "J21" law, which establishes this conciliation, states in its article 4 that, as soon as the judge can rule on its own motion, the referral to the court of instance must be preceded by an attempt at conciliation, unless the absence of recourse to conciliation is justified by a legitimate reason. So these concepts already exist in our law. We simply consider that by adding mediation and participatory procedure, we really allow structured processes to be put in place. On the other hand, and you know that because I have said so, through the regulations, we will move from the current threshold of 4000 euros to 5000 euros. But, fundamentally, we do not change the principles that exist today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u355	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u356	I do not have the article before you – it is both the advantage and the disadvantage of this debate – but I was well aware that referral and prior conciliation were possible. But if they exist, I don't see why they should be reintroduced today; I therefore imagine that there must be another paragraph which you have omitted to read us, or other provisions, which make the text which you are presenting to us today refine the law in force. Otherwise you're duplicating, and it's totally useless. Nevertheless, nothing prevents us from improving your text. By referring to a legitimate ground which will be appreciated by the judge a posteriori, we do not put the citizen in a situation of legal certainty, since – even if this does not seem to shock the majority in this Chamber – the judge will be given the possibility of validating, a posteriori, the admissibility of the citizen's approach. On the contrary, legal certainty requires, in my view, to make it clear to the citizen, from the outset, what are the conditions for bringing a case before a court. In this way, he will be able to choose to seize or opt for conciliation first. It therefore seems to me essential, once again, to clarify the procedure for referring cases to the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u357	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u358	In reply to the rapporteur and the minister, I would like to point out that the legislator is perfectly in his role when he specifies the matters. It is up to us to determine what should fall within the exception to the systematic use of conciliation. You yourself say, Madam Minister, that judges are already overwhelmed with work. To leave everything to the judge's discretion is to self-censor us as legislators, and this can be dangerous, since assessments can be of varying geometry. One final argument: you have managed to ensure that the Republicans and members of the GDR group draft almost identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u359	[[Smile]] If there were only those two!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u360	It's a feat! That is to say, the unanimity that is preparing against your bill. This should be an issue for you if you were driven by common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u361	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u362	It is true that in the 2016 law, the legislator, for the first time, made a conciliation compulsory before referring the matter to the judge. I can't believe it. I think it is a good thing to have to seek conciliation, while having the guarantee that the agreement is not compulsory: if we fail to do so, we go before the judge. I consider that these amendments are precisely the question of the legitimate ground. I understand that it was already required by the 2016 law, but nothing actually prevents us from making progress. What I find a little awkward in the paragraph you are proposing is that he asks that the referral to the court without an attempt to mediate beforehand be justified on legitimate grounds. By this "legitimate reason", we can hear the concerns raised by my colleagues: pollution, a health risk, an emergency, a disorder of public order. But when you add "notably the unavailability of conciliators of justice within a reasonable time", you change your register. I therefore propose to replace this phrase with an alternative: "... if justified by a legitimate reason", which allows us to refer to the concerns of my colleagues, "... or by the unavailability of conciliators of justice within a reasonable time". That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u363	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 347 and 594. Mr Antoine Savignat, in support of Amendment No. 347, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u364	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u365	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor to support Amendment No. 594.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u366	The following paragraph should be added after paragraph 12: "5 ° If the parties have previously agreed on cases justifying due diligence with a view to reaching an amicable resolution of their dispute and justify the existence of such cases." In this way we are introducing a fifth case of derogation which I think is also relevant. It is true that we obviously do not have the same appreciation of relevance and common sense...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u367	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 513.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u368	The purpose of this amendment is to maintain, for the purpose of bringing the matter before the court of main instance, the exception to the obligation to try a conciliation or a participatory procedure which is currently in force for bringing the matter before the courts of instance under the so-called "J21" Act. This exception applies to cases where legal protection insurance has been activated. We started from the fact that legal insurance worked rather well – it basically plays in 450,000 cases a year, about 70% of which give total satisfaction. It is therefore a question of introducing this legal protection insurance as a possible derogation. I recall that it already exists in the 2016 law, and it seems to me that there would be a possibility to anticipate a little, in terms of access to the law, some reflections that we might have on the development of this protection insurance, which would often limit the congestion of the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u369	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u370	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u372	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u373	No more explanation?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u374	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u375	I was caught a short time ago, Madam Minister, when you referred to the J21 Conciliation Act. I knew that I was not totally wrong, since, in the main part of this debate, Law J21 refers, on the basis of legitimate grounds, to articles 848 and 849 of the Code of Civil Procedure, i.e. to urgency and summary order. Hence, of course, all the previous amendments. But the case just presented by our colleague Gosselin is also included in the J21 law, since this text makes it clear that from the moment when the parties justify attempts at prior reconciliation, there is no reason to impose on them a conciliation prior to referral to the court. I knew there was something missing from the explanation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u376	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u377	This is an amendment that I had not tabled at first reading. I understand that in order not to prolong the debate, you were sitting and we were simply saying "unfavorable opinion". But in this case, the rapporteur, the minister, your explanation is a little short – it says in a word: "unfavorable". Let's admit, but for what reason? I would like at least to be able to argue, and perhaps to continue thinking if this amendment is rejected – I do not in any way prejudge the continuation of events.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u378	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u379	You're absolutely right, and I beg your pardon. I must admit, in full transparency, that I was a little short-sighted about this amendment. The question you are asking is a real one: that of the intervention of legal protection insurances in the context of disputes. The difficulty lies in the fact that we are trying to promote, through this text, amicable settlement, through the intervention of a third party, whether it is a conciliator or a mediator. You will tell me that in the participatory procedure, each of the parties being represented by a lawyer, no third party intervenes. Two separate mechanisms are actually provided for in this scheme, one based on the parties represented, the other on a third person. What, then, is happening in the case of legal protection insurances? They can intervene in a pre-content phase, where the insurers themselves represent the parties and send letters of formal notice. This step is not included in the text. It is considered that one does not fall within the scope of an attempt at amicable settlement of disputes. As a practitioner, I have sent a number of notices, without any real purpose other than to apply article 56 of the Code of Civil Procedure, by writing the formula: "In the absence of an answer within eight days, I shall consider that an amicable settlement is not envisaged, etc...". But we do not want to enter that mechanism. Another possibility: legal protection insurances all have battalions of lawyers, and if one is in a more advanced process, one comes to the confrontation of insurers, each of whom appoints a lawyer. It is then part of the participatory procedure. The mechanism that is planned today therefore offers an alternative to the procedures of formal notice undertaken mainly in order to fulfil the obligation to seek an amicable settlement. That is not what this is about, and we fully assume it. I would like to add a final word, since you are responsible for a mission on access to law and legal aid: it seems to me that this could be a framework in which to work on the intervention of legal protection insurances, to give them all their rightful place, in a thoughtful, concerted and analysed way, in the settlement of disputes. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u380	Mr. Jean Terlier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u381	As the rapporteur has been very comprehensive, I would simply add, Mr Gosselin, that I do not fully agree with your amendment. In fact, it represents a risk. You know how it goes: if the wall of my property falls in my house, I make a claim declaration, and the insurer with whom I have legal protection intervenes and appoints an expert. This expert will explain to me, in all likelihood, that if my wall collapsed, whatever the reason, it is my neighbour's fault. It will then be convened as part of an amicable expertise. At the end of the discussions, he will state that he does not feel responsible. My expert now his conclusions, we will justify a disagreement on an attempt at amicable settlement. And you would like this case to allow for an exemption from the obligation to try mediation, conciliation or participatory procedure. I am not in favour of this, because in many cases the relationship is biased and unbalanced: I am assisted by my insurance expert, that his logic as an insurer may lead to asserting that my liability is not at stake, and that the fault lies with a third party. If my opponent, for lack of legal protection insurance, is not assisted by an expert, the attempt at conciliation will not take place within the framework of a balanced relationship. Since weapons are not equal, this case should not be made an exception to the obligation set out in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u382	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u383	I believe that this amendment is a good one, and that it is better to pave the way than to waste time. If the parties can prove that they have tried a mediation procedure, there is no point in adding it and going further through the proposed procedure. It is clear, in the end, that your goal is to ensure, at all costs, that people go through mediation, because you need to structure this future market, in connection with Article 3. Everything is in your mind, and it doesn't matter to you, in fact, the processing times and the steps taken by the litigant. Your goal is to reduce court cases. You are showing this, once again, by your sectarianism on amendments that seem to be of public health. The previous amendment proposed to clarify the cases of exemption, and you removed it from the back of your hand, without really presenting any arguments. Once again, you are showing that it is not possible to have reasoned and reasoned debates in this House, and that you are not able to accept amendments of common sense coming from oppositions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u384	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u385	We will never succeed in agreeing because, convinced as you are of being right, you do not want to hear our arguments. However, Mr Gosselin's amendment is clear: while it is aimed at attempts to reconcile by "intervention of a professional authorized by law", you are talking about an insurance expert, who is not, as I know, "a professional authorized by law", i.e. a conciliator, a mediator or a lawyer. You are trying to ridicule a serious amendment. I have nothing against the insurance experts. They do, however, have clients by definition, and their role is not to make attempts at rapprochement such as mediators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u386	However, that is what the amendment says.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u387	If the parties have resorted to a professional authorized by law, why not save them time by recognizing that the necessary has been done, since they have made this prior step? Why reject their request?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u388	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u389	Contrary to what has been said, we are in the middle of the debate and have a real exchange on the substance. We are pleased to have such a discussion: we wanted to say so. However, we will not support this amendment, because of the risk, which has been pointed out, of misappropriation of this approach by insurance experts. However, as I say again, we have a debate on the substance, which can be continued in the context of the discussion of the forthcoming amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u390	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u391	How can you explain your obstinacy to reject intelligent, pragmatic and common-sense amendments? It is guided by your ideological will to build justice without judges to achieve savings. It is the general review of public policies that governs all these measures! It's Bercy who put your plan to the grater!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u392	How can we explain the 25 per cent increase in the justice budget?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u393	I did not interrupt you when you spoke and I wish to give our explanation! This project is driven by a desire to rejuvenate the regal function of justice in the territories, including its ability to resolve disputes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u394	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u395	There is indeed a real substantive debate on the subject, and I am pleased that it is recognized: it is a confrontation between different conceptions. This amendment is not out of the question: the law on the modernization of justice of the twenty-first century already provides for such an exception. Moreover, I repeat, 70% of the 450,000 disputes are already settled amicably: it's not nothing! I subscribe to your logic: since the objective of your text is to render justice faster and to reduce the congestion of the courts, well, chick! Let us do what we can by adopting this amendment. I regret that this is not possible for ideological or dogmatic reasons. The question, however, is asked and will remain so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u396	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u397	Minister, you are encouraging people to make increasing use of alternative dispute resolution methods. Why not? In this case, give them the opportunity to do so with confidence, especially since behind these disputes pending a resolution, there are not only simple dossiers: there are also women and men, life paths. The solutions that will result from amicable settlement of disputes will have a significant impact on the lives of our citizens. This is why it is your responsibility not to leave to the free market alone the regulation and quality control of the services provided by online mediation, conciliation or arbitration services platforms. I therefore believe that it is essential to provide for certification of this legaltech. In the Liberties and Territories Group, we believe that digital technology should not be the door to obscure and harmful practices for our citizens. Today you have the opportunity to regulate the practices of these companies, which have not waited for your reform to seize all the potential of digital technology. Take your responsibilities and act! Do not be afraid to regulate really and do not fall behind the inconclusive nature of such a provision, in the name of the freedom to provide services, as the rapporteur in committee might have opposed us. As you know, Madam Minister, restrictions are necessary in a democratic society for the protection of the rights of others, as the European Convention on Human Rights provides, in the context of the exercise of fundamental freedoms. The certification of legaltechs, far from affecting them, will, on the contrary, give them greater legibility and guarantee the justiciable a quality service.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u398	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u399	With this article 3, the eminently dogmatic nature of your approach appears in all its splendour, even though we must be vigilant in front of these platforms, which are private companies and which will make their services pay to the litigants, at the risk of aggravating the phenomenon of two-speed justice. With the generalization of these platforms, for some, there will be costly and rapid justice, and for others, who will not be able to have access to the first, a slow justice, taken over by legal aid. Mediation, as envisaged by the reform, may delay or limit access to the judge and discourage the litigant from bringing the matter before the court. None of the provisions of the text takes into account the reality of our territories, namely the digital divide. It should also be recalled that there is nothing today that prevents the parties from seeking conciliation or mediation, since lawyers already apply the rule that a bad arrangement is better than a good trial. However, while the conciliation phase is already provided for in the contract procedure, it has not resulted in a very large number of transactions. It is important to understand that the emergence of these platforms contains the seed of a drift resulting in diversion and deprivation of justice, which are likely to cause further damage in the so-called overseas territories of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u400	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u401	Yesterday, I was in the Eure for the launch of the great national debate in the presence of the President of the Republic, and I had the opportunity to say what I thought of the way it was organised. I have also read carefully the letter from the President of the Republic to the French. In particular, he states: "The second issue on which we must make decisions is the organisation of the state and public authorities," adding: "Public services have a cost, but they are vital: schools, police, army, hospitals, courts are essential to our social cohesion. Are there too many administrative levels or levels of local authorities? Should decentralisation be strengthened and greater power for decision-making and action should be given as close as possible to the citizens? At what levels and for what services? How would you like the state to be organized and how can it improve its action? I stop reading there. This passage is important because if this great national debate serves something, if the questions are not pre-drafted and the answers pre-drafted, it is necessary to pause in the examination of this text in order to know the expectations of the French regarding the level of public service, particularly with regard to the regal function of justice. On the other hand, if this debate is of no use and the answers are already known, if you keep going and take the roundabouts backwards, then you smoke us and we need to know that. That is why I, together with the judicial community, affirm that the reform of the justice system, which is of interest to the French, cannot be absent from the great national debate, since justice is consubstantial to the organization of the Republic. That is why, in the light of this article, which is a great deal of danger for me to come back to, I invite you, the minister, to do the same as in the case of constitutional reform: a pause in the examination of the text. We will return to that when the great national debate is over.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u402	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u403	Mr Jumel has made some common sense comments that I obviously share. You justify Article 3 by arguing that, given the jungle that these platforms already exist, we must be happy that you are proposing non-mandatory certification. It'll always be better than nothing! However, you fail to point out a difference between the current situation and that foreseen in the text for tomorrow: in the meantime, you make mediation mandatory before the judge. In fact, by forcing the justiciable to go through these modes of resolution, you create the conditions of this market. Tomorrow, platforms will be able to skilfully adhere to a sufficiently broad specification to have certification and to play on the mandatory nature of mediation to offer other services or formulas "all inclusive", all inclusive, allowing to settle the dispute in two strokes of pottery. We were already opposed to Article 2 because it makes the attempt at conciliation compulsory, whereas we believe, on the contrary, that mediation, conciliation or participative procedure can only succeed from the moment when the parties so wish. And now, in addition, you don't want mandatory certification, letting the platforms offer their services without getting the state stamp. Will he, by the way, have the right tampon? Will only the informed Internet user be able to avoid scams? I'm not opposed to online platforms. We have no problems with them, and that is why we have not tabled an amendment to delete Article 3. On the other hand, we have tabled three amendments aimed at very strict regulation of these platforms, in order to be able to prohibit the posting of those that do not comply with the conditions, and thus to secure, for the benefit of the litigants, the new online mediation procedures. You who always pride yourself on increasing the security of citizens, well, do it in this area!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u404	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u405	Minister, as you know, these platforms are those of private companies, which will be remunerated. The concept of a public service may therefore be somewhat laminated. This is your political option: to divert and reduce the budget. All right! For what reason, then, does Article 3, paragraph 10, on which we have tabled an amendment, not make certification mandatory? It only provides that online services providing conciliation, mediation or arbitration services "may be certified". It is therefore not an obligation, which is very surprising. I would like to know the reasons for your choice, because I believe, like almost all lawyers, that it is essential to make certification compulsory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u406	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u407	Justice is one of the three regal pillars of the state, so it is our sovereignty. The delegation by the State of some of its powers to bodies that may not be accredited is problematic, as it exposes the French to legal abuses. Thus, it will not always be possible to anticipate decisions taken, which contravenes the principle that justice must retain control over dispute resolution services. Worse: The algorithms used by these services could be controlled by foreigners with different legal cultures. The new world will be marked by predictive justice, on which we will not have our hand and which risks being disconnected from the justiciable, dehumanized. It's extremely dangerous! The normalisation of the dematerialisation of procedures may encourage the development of paid conciliation platforms. The use of some of them could lead to serious conflicts of interest. The progressive erasure of the human applicant in this type of mediation is also a serious transformation of our judicial institutions, which is not desirable. This reform of the justice system is one of the main reasons for our citizens' mistrust of the world that you are proposing to us. People want to remain masters of their destiny: they want to have confidence in human justice. The model you imagine, with these platforms, goes completely against the aspirations of the French. There's still time to change, madame, the seal keeper!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u408	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u409	I will briefly present my personal position on Article 3 – this is not the position of the MODEM Group, which will then be set out by one of my colleagues. In my view, the use of these platforms is necessary, and we must encourage and support this digitalisation process. On the other hand, it seems to me essential to provide for a number of safeguards.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u410	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u411	That is why I, like a number of my colleagues on other benches, will table an amendment in my personal capacity that provides for the prior certification of these platforms. Such an amendment has already been introduced in the Senate. I repeat, I speak only in my personal capacity. We must support the people, our fellow citizens, by providing for security measures and prior certification of platforms. Later, we will see if these measures work, if the jungle is well regulated, if there are no ugly little ducks – I could use other expressions heard in committee – and then we can adopt other provisions. To sum up, I would like us to plan for a pre-certification stage for the platforms. Later, when digital usages have developed, we will see if we can do without it, but as things stand, it is necessary to protect those who are litigants, in the same way as the consumer code protects consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u412	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u413	I want to respond to colleagues who have expressed some concern on this subject. Article 3 will provide a framework for practices that are not yet so: it will therefore improve things. At the beginning of the discussion of this text, I shared the position of a number of you: I thought it was necessary at all costs for the state to certify these sites. However, after thinking and working on this with several of our colleagues, I realized that this was impossible. How do you want to certify a priori sites hosted outside the European Union, for example in a country specialized in legaltech such as India, at the cutting edge on these topics? Either way, you won't be able to ban them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u414	That's the drama!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u415	[[The rapporteur applauds]] The logic of labelling is much more interesting. The Ministry of Justice will give a label to sites meeting a number of criteria. I imagine that the list of labeled sites will be published on the website of the Ministry of Justice: citizens will then know that they can trust them. The twisted sites hosted in India and offering anything will not get the label: French litigants, who are not fools, will soon understand that they are not trusted sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u416	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-16-O1119.u417	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill, and the organic bill on strengthening the organization of courts. The meeting is adjourned.
