ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u1	The next item is the questions on the Government's education policy. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. We begin with the questions of the Republican Group. Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u2	Minister, in the riding of Calais and Calaisis that I represent, the 2019 school year will see the deepest teaching bleed in its recent history, in a territory that suffers and that accumulates many economic, social and cultural difficulties, a territory where the parents of students still had faith in the institution of which you are the minister and saw in the school the last way of social ascent and success for their children. You promised us that rurality would no longer be the adjustment variable of the school map. In the Calaisis, it will be more so than ever and will pay a heavy toll on your educational policy, with a closure in Oye-Plage, one in Audruicq, one in Guemps and three in Marck. This wave of rural closures, however, will not save classes in Calais, since eleven classes will close in September in the city centre. Naïvely, I thought priority neighbourhoods would be spared. This was a mistake, since three schools in California will lose their "More teachers than classes" system and the kindergarten of the High Communes of Marck, located in a "watch" neighbourhood of the city's politics, will be closed in kindergarten. Minister, in these neighbourhoods as well as throughout Calaisis, in urban areas as in rural areas, your class closures will prohibit any two-year schooling, depriving these children of one of the few benefits they could have enjoyed on their way to life. Of course, there is a drop in staff, as a result of the previous government's attacks on family policy, but the government to which you belong has amplified these and you are dependent on the drop in staff throughout France. So you cannot use the only statistical argument of the number of students per class to sweep the legitimate demands and concerns of parents, educational teams and elected officials from the back of your hand. In my constituency, your balance sheet is without appeal: 17 closures, of which 11 in kindergarten, for a single opening. You have often been accused of undressing Paul the rural to dress Pierre the Urban, but the reality of Calaisis is that, unfortunately, you undress Paul and Peter at the same time. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My question is therefore simple, Mr Minister: why, as the massive closures of classes in Calais and Calaisis prove, do you not want to give schoolchildren in my territory the same chance of success as their little comrades everywhere else in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u3	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u4	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u5	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Mr President, this is not the first question of its kind, and I imagine it will not be the last. So I will have to repeat what I have already said to some of your colleagues. In your department, as in all the departments of France, next year, the rate of supervision will improve. I have before me the number of abolitions of posts and classes in recent years, both by governments that your party has been able to support and by governments supported by the previous majority. The comparison is obviously very favourable to the present government, since we are creating positions in primary school, even though, as you yourself have noted, there are fewer students in Pas-de-Calais. I keep these figures at your disposal; we will be able to communicate them to the local press if you wish. On the other hand, we should also talk about class openings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u6	There was only one in my constituency!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u7	Indeed, in all French departments, there are class openings at the same time as closures. For the honesty of our public discussion, it would therefore be important to mention openings like closures...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u8	I did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u9	... as well as the evolution of the P/E – the number of teachers per 100 students – in your department: today it is 5.73, which represents a ratio of management above the national average. The real question, let us say with serenity and without polemics, is demographic: how can we succeed in the rural rebound in France? This rural rebound implies a demographic rebound. The latter, I grant you, goes through the setting-up of a virtuous circle: you must give the families the desire to settle in the villages, so have a living, tonic school. That is the meaning of the policy we are pursuing. This involves not only the duplication of the classes of CP and EC1, which, although you have ignored it, is an important source of satisfaction in your department and in your constituency, but also through policies to link the overall supply of public services within the same territory. That is the strategy we are following. As there may be other questions of the same kind, I will conclude by saying that your speech – in any case the one you could hold – is part of the solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u10	We must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u11	Indeed, I do not think that holding speeches of despair, by caricaturing the situation, promotes the demographic rebound that we all want.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u12	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u13	Minister, we will all agree on these benches that school must be the place where the feeling of belonging to our national community and to our Republic is formed. At a time when our country sees some of its children turning away from the values of freedom, equality and fraternity that underpin it, it is essential and urgent to reaffirm these values to the younger ones, and this from the first level of education. It is essential to reaffirm our commitment to the constituent symbols of our democracy. Among these symbols and values are secularism. Minister, when the signs of religious belonging in the public space multiply, when communalism gangnes our lives together, secularism allows us to fight against all forms of radicalism and fundamentalism that deeply undermine our society. It must still be understood and learned! It must therefore become more part of the body of values that our educational system transmits. It must be clearly reaffirmed in the school of the Republic and its teaching included in the school curricula. Such a measure would allow for better observation by young students of the rules of life in society. It would thus help to safeguard the specificity of our republican model. In order for a pedagogy of secularism to be effective, teachers still have to be trained; training them to teach in class this fundamental principle. Indeed, the method of transmission of pedagogy is as essential as the content of teaching. There is no pedagogy without a teacher. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, my question will be simple: because the school must be a public service of secularism, because at the time of pedagogy must always succeed that of decision-making and action, what are your intentions in order to promote within it both the acquisition and the transmission of this fundamental notion of secularism?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u14	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u15	Mr President, I believe that all of us in this House share a foundation of common principles, which includes the principle of secularism within the school of the Republic. It is obvious that this is a source of unity, and the challenge lies in the implementation of this principle rather than in its discussion. Yes, secularism must be at the heart of what we transmit, I would say on a daily basis, by example, by what is happening in school, by the application of the law, in particular the law of 2004, and, of course, by the content of education, in particular moral and civic education, which includes the principle of secularism. This requires the display of the Charter of secularism, which is now a reality in all schools in France, as well as our ability to transmit the issues related to secularism. I think I can say – but I am prepared to discuss it – that the current programs, as they were designed and as we have developed them recently, especially with regard to primary school, include these issues. On the content side, the situation is therefore satisfactory. If someone did not consider this to be the case, I would be prepared to discuss it: my goal is, like yours, to go as far as is necessary in this matter. Then, and you referred to it, there is training and teaching tools. This was stressed during the discussion in this House of the bill for a school of trust: the issues related to secularism must be systematically present in the training of teachers, whether they are teachers in schools or those of the second degree. I am fully committed to that end. When I said that we had to achieve greater homogeneity of what is being passed on to future teachers as part of their training, I also referred to this, to a moral and civic education that integrates the issues related to secularism. On the other hand, I believe we have made a great deal of progress in recent times so that secular education can be translated into the provision of teaching tools to teachers, particularly on the Internet, through the Eduscol portal. Finally, there is respect for secularism in everyday life. This is the mission of the "Laïcité et fait religieux" teams that we have set up in every rectorate in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u16	So there's nothing left to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u17	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u18	Minister, you know my commitment to defending a simple principle of equal opportunities, both in the city and in the countryside. This sometimes gives rise to heated exchanges between us, not so much on the principle itself – which I believe we share – as on the modalities to be used to achieve it. In the continuation of this Republican conversation, I would like to take this opportunity to convey the deep concerns of parents, teachers, school principals and elected representatives raised by the creation of local public institutions for the teaching of basic knowledge provided for in the draft law for a school of trust. This is an inexplicable decision on your part, both in form and substance. In fact, while in general you seem to favour consultation and back-up before any decision is taken, on this subject you have opted for haste, without any impact assessment being carried out. Undoubtedly, and despite the agreement of the communities that such a provision implies, it is for them, as well as for the students and for the educational community as a whole, a upheaval that has not been measured – which I invite you to do. Why not start an experiment first? On the substance, I am concerned about both the objective and the effects of such a measure. Indeed, if I can hear the need for mutualisation and pedagogical continuity, I do not see how the end of the physical presence of the principal in the school, with all the difficulties that it will raise in the daily organisation and management, could be a step forward for our education system.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u19	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u20	In order for the school not to be the school of distrust, the territorial mesh must be preserved. The concentration of establishments does not meet the need for proximity expressed by our compatriots. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, could you reassure us on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u21	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u22	I will answer, Mr President, in an extremely reassuring way, I believe, this extremely important question. As far as the form is concerned, allow me to share with you my astonishment. Indeed, I would remind you that the amendment that introduced the provision in question was presented by a Member from your ranks, Mr Reiss, who had drafted an important report on the matter in 2011. We have a considerable setback on it, since it has been under consideration since 1945 or almost. Many people, both from the right and from the left, are calling for such a mechanism, which would make it possible to further unify the school and the college. In addition, I did what I said we would do when we discussed the bill, namely, to consider the opposition's proposals. This is one of the main things that your movement has done. It therefore seems paradoxical to blame us today for something that comes in part from your home, and which also responds to the conception of Members of Parliament of other trends. I do not think you should criticize such an openness on the part of the Government. As for the impact of the measure, we have a clear awareness of it. In any case, if this were not the case, the 2011 Reiss report would help us considerably. In substance, we should reassure the educational community together. I would point out – as I had pointed out, but perhaps insufficiently, during the discussion of the bill – that these schools of basic knowledge will be one of the elements of the toolbox available to our territories in order to improve the public service of education locally. In other words, there is absolutely nothing mandatory in what is proposed. This is an innovative element of governance, adapted to certain situations, both rural and urban. I solemnly affirm that the aim is not to close rural schools, on the contrary. You have referred to the physical presence of the director, a question which, I know, has some concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u23	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u24	Yesterday, in the Rhône, a school principal told me about it; I reassured him – as I hope I reassure you this evening – that he would have a vocation, on the contrary, to be even more physically present, with greater administrative strength thanks to the link with the college, if the educational community and the local elected representatives so decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u25	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u26	As we already see, territories are voluntary in this area, and what we are talking about will only be done on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u27	I am obliged, Minister, to be the guardian of time: the speaking time for each question, I remind you, is two minutes for the deputies and two minutes for the Government. Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u28	By listening to you, minister, I think we don't put the same meaning behind the words: "strengthening rural school." To every colleague who questions you, you answer that the ministry is making efforts, that the positions are generally maintained in the department concerned, or even increased. But reality catches up with you. I will refer, for example, to the case of the school of Notre-Dame-de-Courson, in the commune of which I was mayor until mid-2017. In the past, this territory has already made the effort to change its school operation, creating an RPI – an inter-municipal pedagogical group – with another municipality. Today, there are four classes on two sites, Meulles and Notre-Dame-de-Courson. Your services propose to abolish one of the four teaching positions, on the basis of a forecast of numbers that parents of students and elected officials consider to be 10% small. Minister, on the pretext of doubling a few classes of CP in the priority education areas and in the test area, you are closing hundreds of classes in rural areas. Every French citizen, every French schoolboy has the right to fair treatment. Rural schools require the same attention as suburban schools or the Breton Islands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u30	Why want to put children on buses and force them, from the age of three, to travel a few tens of kilometres twice a day, which makes it possible to discharge the national education and transfer to a community the costs of transport and accompaniment? Why not consider that our children, both in rural areas and on the island of Molène, for example, are too isolated to move? Why, in these priority areas too – because school is a priority – would national education not extend its hand? Consider, minister, that the disappearance of rural schools is the death of our countryside! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Just now, you blamed one of our colleagues for pouring into the caricature. We do not caricature in any way, minister: we explain to you the reality of our campaigns.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u31	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u32	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Again, honourable Member, let us not create false oppositions between us. I defend rural school at least as much as you do: I repeat, I went to one of them yesterday again, and I devote a lot of my time to them. Every time I reiterate that, of course, they must be defended, we agree. They must be for reasons that I have often recalled, one of the most important being that, in primary school, rural schools succeed on average better than the others in France. It is therefore in our best interest to knit our territory of primary schools. Let us also make sure not to confuse, in our speeches, the closure of a school and the closure of a class: it is not the same thing. Close a class, it has always existed, including under governments that you have been able to support and under others that, perhaps, you will support again. The openings and closures of classes have always responded, for obvious reasons, to demographic changes. Perhaps we need to change the rules of the game, including multi-annual apprehension. This would avoid the role play reported in a previous question. You questioned, alleging a decrease of the order of 10%, the enumeration of students for the school year. As you know, academy inspectors keep reserves, precisely with a view to adapting to local demographic realities. Thus, the polemics that one sees born in February, March or April do not actually have to be because in September we adjust our action with pragmatism for the classes. The real subject, I want to repeat it solemnly, is, of course, demographics. In Calvados, for example, there will be 1,000 fewer pupils in the next school year; But national education will be kind: this will not call for class closures in the same proportions, so that the rate of supervision will be more favourable. The real subject, which we must take with us because it is dramatic, is the demographic decline itself. One of my proposals, as such, is to boost rural schools to attract families again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u33	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u34	But we would not benefit from denouncing alleged malice towards rural schools. It is not, on the contrary: they are the object, I assure you, of great benevolence. Meanwhile, we are not talking about the real subject, demography, and the strategies we are developing to ensure its rebound.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u35	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u36	Last month, in this House, we were studying the bill for a school of trust. This text, which devotes several advances, still does not address the issue of the status of principals. These staff in the educational community are experiencing growing discomfort. While they carry out their managerial responsibilities in addition to their teaching role, countless tasks are assigned to them, which complicate the exercise of their profession. They have no status, no help, and they are overwhelmed. The current discharge regime does not allow them to get the head out of the water. You know, Mr. Minister, the workload and responsibility of school principals, all over the country, in rural areas or in REP – a priority education network –; you also know their remuneration, which is not commensurate with the work performed or the responsibilities assumed by these professionals. There is a real expectation, within the first degree, on the issue of the status of principals. On the occasion of the flash mission I conducted with Cécile Rilhac on this issue, I was able to see that it was unanimous among all the actors in education. Whether they are inspectors of national education, teachers or parents of pupils, all agree on the need to create such a status. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Therefore, Minister, my question is very simple: when will the Government create a statute for school principals?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u37	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u38	The subject you have just mentioned is obviously of importance, Madam Member. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the very enlightening report you presented with Cécile Rilhac: it allows us to make progress on this subject, and has shed light on a number of them in the bill for a school of trust. There are indeed new steps to be taken, but, let us not forget, a few have been taken in the context of this bill. The measures taken, in particular under the School of Basic Knowledge, should not be of concern; much more, they are one of the answers to the problem you raise; If there is a link between school and college, the principal, then considered the assistant principal of the college, will have a much more robust status. But, I repeat, we do not make it the universal solution: what is outlined is a toolbox. In fact, some school principals want the status quo, to which they find advantages; Others argue for a true status as primary school principal; Still others consider it appropriate to consider the issue in the context of continuity between school and college. It is therefore these three options that are beginning to emerge, and this represents a far more important step forward than anything that has been proposed for decades. The subject has indeed been on the table for a very long time; things are beginning to evolve, as a result of the work that you have done, Madam Member, and of the progress that we are making ourselves. The issue is complex, including in financial terms; But I agree that the financial recognition of the work of school principals could be significantly improved. Some of the measures taken by the previous Government and the Government to which I belong have enabled improvements, let us note, and the doubling of the classes of CP and EC1 has mechanically increased the number of landfills, from 200 to 300 throughout the country – in addition to the 500 previously granted. In short, there have been improvements, but more needs to be done. The possibility of creating a true school principal status must remain on the table, even if we have taken a first step.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u39	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u40	"The vocational school is intended to be a springboard for students towards immediate integration into working life or to pursue successful studies": this is, Minister, the first sentence of your "editation" on the website www.education.gouv.fr. I fully share this vision. Then why will students lose in 2019, with your reform, four hours of lessons a week, that is a significant training time? Over the course of the course, the hours devoted to mathematics will decrease by 16%, those devoted to French by 13% and those devoted to the second living language by 50%. With the weakening of general subjects, it will be increasingly difficult for students with a vocational qualification to continue their studies. I have been alerted, in my constituency, by teachers from the Escoffier vocational school, who are major players in the vocational training and integration of our territories, about the negative consequences of the implementation of the reform. Course hours will decrease and training will be grouped into trade families, with the sole aim of achieving savings, not ensuring the success of our children. The abolition of vocational baccalaureate courses and their regrouping in more remote establishments further fracture our territories. The reform will force students to go to schools that are often more distant than their living and employment pool, even though the great debate shows a demand for closer proximity. We may also be concerned that institutional partnerships with local businesses may be less engaging, thus less effective in promoting youth employment, and that this may be detrimental to the economic life of our territories. Similarly, the reduction in human resources, through the abolition of teaching posts – 900 posts will be abolished in vocational lycées in the coming school year – will lead to a further deterioration of the conditions of teaching and reception of our students. The resources allocated to vocational lycées and the maintenance of all the courses currently proposed seem to me essential for the future of our young people. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, what measures do you intend to take to avoid dropping out of school, to ensure that every young person has a choice of training and to ensure that the vocational school is a real springboard?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u41	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u42	I thank you, Madam Member, for citing this editorial, to which I obviously remain faithful, as are all the measures that we are taking, with regard to principles that we share. Yes, our ambition is very strong for the professional high school; As I have said on several occasions, my goal is even to make it the second priority after primary school. This requires a very clear strategy, and I will say here what I said earlier about rural school: your speech, and the one we all have, are part of the solution. There is absolutely no reason to describe in a negative way the positive logic at work for vocational education. I will therefore endeavour to reassure you in the time allotted to me, first of all by reminding you of the three essential axes of reform. The first, "network campus", is the creation of real campuses. I thus referred to the "Harvard of the pro". Work is currently being done with all regions of France to organize the planning of these campuses. The idea is either to expand existing ones or to create new ones, not only with a view to equipping them, but also to make them pleasant places and to develop partnerships, of which you have recalled the importance. Yesterday, in Lyon, I visited one of these campuses, the Campus Lumière, which we will strengthen; Linked to the Light cluster, it has all the qualities that we wish to see brought together in all the professional lycées of France: strong partnerships, a theme of the future, in this case that of light and lighting, linked to the ecological transition, and a pedagogical dynamism. The second is precisely the themes of the future, such as ecological transition or digital technology, which we know are transforming the professions. These two elements can make the vocational high school the locomotive for the transformation of the training that France needs. Third axis: pedagogical transformation. For the most part, this transformation, as I recall, is in line with the report by Member of Parliament Céline Calvez and Chef Régis Marcon. Those who want to deepen the topic can read the texts or watch the videos dedicated to them on the ministry's website. Some seconds – not all – will indeed be organized into families of trades, in order to allow students to gradually choose their specialization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u43	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u44	On the hours devoted to general subjects, the professional high school student in France, I will perhaps come back to it with another question, thirty-four or thirty-five hours of class, when the other high school students have less than thirty hours. The number of hours is obviously not alpha and omega, but those devoted to general education do not decrease: the formula for which we opted is that of a co-intervention of two teachers, one of general subjects and the other of professional subjects, in front of the same pupils.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u45	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u46	Yesterday, in the framework of the study group on children's rights and youth protection, Alexandra Louis and I, who co-chaired it, we went with a few other colleagues to the prison for minors in Marseille. In 2019, 789 minors are in detention, which still accounts for 1.1 per cent of the prison population. Deprivation of liberty is a difficult test. Let us not forget that, even though these young people have potentially made mistakes, they remain children that we must also protect. The professionals in the prisons and in the judicial protection of young people referred to a "prison shock" for these young people, and stressed the absolute necessity of the arrangements put in place to accompany them. As such, national education plays an essential role among these prevented audiences: as we saw yesterday, it is a real vehicle for the reintegration of these young people who often drop out of school. In specialized prisons for minors, the means of national education are commensurate with the challenge: a full-fledged management with its own premises, a teaching team and professionals with a high educational autonomy in order to adapt to the specificities of its public. Education or training is the most important part of young minors' time use, in the continuity of their pre-incarceration journey. We must welcome the existence of such mechanisms and improve them. However, only one third of minors in detention are detained in an EPM: there are only six such institutions in our territory. And while 47 adult institutions have established juvenile wards within them, which offer places adapted to the regime of detention of minors, supervision and activities are smaller than in the EPMs, and the detention regime closer to that of adults, according to the findings of the International Prison Observatory. In view of the challenges of access to education for minors in detention, what are the avenues of work envisaged by the Government, particularly in the context of the future reform of the 1945 Ordinance, to advance access to education in all places of detention for minors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u47	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u48	Your question, Madam Member, is obviously very important. In this respect, we are starting from good practice, the ones you have recalled. The Ministries of National Education and Justice cooperate very closely on these issues, and important means are devoted to them. But it is true that situations are quite heterogeneous. We must therefore, of course, in future be able to improve the quality of the schemes proposed throughout the country, taking as a benchmark the best experiences. They all contain the same ingredients. First, the training of teachers and other stakeholders. There is now a magisterium dedicated specifically to prison education, which gives satisfaction and should become the model of the training we want for the stakeholders. There are also successful pedagogical experiments. I am thinking of the one led in Bordeaux by Alain Bentolla, who achieves very interesting results, particularly in terms of consolidating basic knowledge in adolescents by specific methods. We are in the process of evaluating, with the Ministry of Justice, this experience that we could develop in the rest of France. Thirdly, it is our ability to customize each other's journey. We know, indeed, that everyone is particular in prison, even more, perhaps, than in ordinary environments. This requires the development of ever-renewed pedagogical approaches. As you know, the National Distance Learning Centre, the CNED, plays an essential role in this area. The digital dimension of learning is very important in prison; We must take into account the security constraints affecting access to the Internet, but we are doing very well, as I have observed in some areas I have visited. In this regard, we must have a plan. I've already talked about it with the seal guard. We will make progress, especially in the light of the elements you can bring us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u49	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u50	The draft law for a school of trust corresponds in practice to a twofold promise: social justice and the raising of the general level of pupils. It is through teachers that this promise can be fulfilled. The bill includes a section dedicated to teacher training. The aim is to homogenize their training, by transforming the higher schools of faculty and education into national higher institutes of faculty and education, or by implementing a new reference framework within the framework of the master's degree in teaching, education and training. Teacher training, a major issue, represents a significant financial and human investment. However, in recent years, some evidence has shown a trend that calls for questioning. The number of sick stoppages, resignations or lay-offs among intern teachers and young teachers continues to increase. Since 2012, the number of resignations has tripled among first degree intern teachers. Even more worrying, the phenomenon also affects full professors. Unfortunately, this situation illustrates the devalorization of the teaching profession. It would be interesting to understand the causes and to be able to improve the conditions of the early careers of teachers. At the beginning of the presentation of the new framework to the National Council for Higher Education and Research, to what extent is this finding taken into account? How can we explain the crisis of vocations? How to improve the preparation for taking up duties so as to avoid a mismatch between the idea that the future teacher is making of his or her profession and the reality that he or she is confronted with during his or her first months of work?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u51	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u52	The subject that you are addressing, Madam Member, is also very important. It first concerns the attractiveness of the function of teacher, then the conditions of the future course or of the young teacher within our system. It is true that, since the early 2010s, the rate of resignations has increased dramatically. Last year we stabilized or even reduced it: it was 3.9% in the first degree and 2.6% in the second degree, a decrease of 0.3% from the previous year. I therefore believe that the phenomenon is now contained in reasonable proportions. It is obviously desirable that we succeed in reducing it further. To change the situation, the two strategic elements are to address the problem upstream and downstream. Upstream, through the pre-recruitment, which we talked about during the consideration of the bill for a school of trust. The idea is to ensure that, from their second year of university, possible future professors begin to feel their desire to work in school, first, in L2 and L3, functions which I would remind them are not teaching. This will be a way for everyone to test their vocation: those who are not already very attracted to what they experience then will not come to enlarge the ranks of the resignations later; others will assert their vocation and develop maturity through this experience. As for the endorsement, I announced, we are going to place the contest at the end of M2 rather than M1, in order to avoid the overload found so far in the second year of master's, which is one of the main causes of resignation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u53	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u54	The French school system promotes the identification of students who have the skills to memorize, abstraction, understanding and synthesis throughout their schooling. However, it is well known that, although they often make considerable efforts, more than others sometimes, some students, who are constantly improving throughout their schooling, remain in difficulty because, for them, memorization remains more arduous and apprenticeships very often require in a large number of subjects, if not all, more time. Yet, these children all have talent: some are comfortable with matter, touch it; others with the oral. Some, too, are almost exclusively interested in a particular area to which they will then devote their lives, without their tastes being sufficiently valued. How can we ensure that the institution gives them more confidence, from an early age, without masking their difficulties in "academic" subjects, but in order to further develop these abilities, these potentials? Of course, there are extra-curricular devices designed to enable these young people to express their talents, such as the one proposed by the association L'Equipe en main. But would it not be worthwhile to integrate more recognition of these skills into school education, through a specific subject or through schemes that would reward the pupils concerned within the school itself? [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] While it is notable that the number of apprentices has never been so large in ten years, there is certainly much to be done to ensure that all forms of intelligence are recognized from an early age. Here, too, there is the cohesion of society, which has become a crucial issue, as the inequalities of success between the social milieu of origin have widened. How can we better recognize the talent of all within the school institution so that everyone can succeed?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u55	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u56	That is a quasi-philosophical question that you are asking, Madam Member, and at the same time very practical. The stakes are the very idea we make of school in France. When I use the expression "school of trust," it is this very type of problem that I have in mind: every student must feel confident when he or she arrives at school and must feel that the talents that he or she can develop are recognized there. Your question has so many aspects that it will be difficult for me to answer it in two minutes. However, this is what I can tell you. First, your remarks are obviously not in opposition to our goal of anchoring basic knowledge in primary school, on the contrary: whatever talent we develop, we will have difficulties later if we have too great weaknesses at this stage when it comes to reading, writing, counting and respecting others. Secondly, nursery school will play a decisive role in moving in the direction you want: nursery school for all is precisely a school of touch, sensitivity, but also of team spirit, a capacity that is part of the particular skills that you have mentioned and will still be observed in elementary school. Finally, your question more directly addresses manual skills and our ability to value all types of intelligence – we sometimes talk about multiple intelligence. This dimension actually concerns all disciplines. The experiment The hand with dough, which has existed for several years, consists in making the students practice manipulations and then lead them to abstraction; This pedagogical approach can exist in many areas, such as the one you gave the example or as in mathematics, in line with the Villani-Torossian report. As for manual work, whatever the name they are given, we must value it from primary school so that they can be found in secondary school and then in high school, in different forms. It is highly desirable that we reserve space for all of this. This could justify a change in the curricula, pedagogy and training of teachers in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u57	We come to the questions of the Socialist and Related Group. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u58	Minister, at a time when the school card is being drawn up in each department for the next school year, I would like once again to alert you to the situation of the school in rural areas and to the feeling of injustice inspired by the announcement of numerous class closures where, often, the school is the last public service, the last vector of attractiveness of a municipality. Rural areas support the majority of these closures. In the Sarthe, for example – but the experience is identical in many territories – out of the thirty-four closures announced for the coming school year, twenty-six will concern a school located in rural areas. If we hear the argument of the demographic decline and the need to deal with the extension to the EC1 of compulsory duplication in priority education, it is clear that this latter measure is still taking place at the expense of rural schools. Because, in deciding to reduce the number of CPs and EC1s in priority education significantly without creating the necessary posts, you are forced to redeploy resources, so that you weigh part of your reform on the other classes and on the other territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u59	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u60	This is a very bad signal in the context of the social crisis in our country and even when the demand for social and, above all, territorial justice is expressed massively. In this climate of despair, mayors make every effort to try to defend their citizens, to value their territory and to preserve the public service of education. In spite of this, despite their commitment, they are subjected to these closures. In response to one of my previous interventions, and again tonight, you say that France is experiencing a demographic problem. But, Minister, class closures make this problem worse: the presence of a school, as you know, is a decisive factor in the decision of families to settle in a village. The news reminds us every day: ensuring the maintenance in our territories of public services, starting with school, is an overriding necessity. Minister, are you going to stop cutting behind average rates of supervision? Will you hear the distress of local elected officials and the parents of students? Are you ready to commit to creating more jobs to cope with duplication and thus limit class closures in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u62	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u63	Madam Member, it is very regrettable that you are acting as if you were defending rural school while I would be insensitive to this reality. We could play that for a very long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u64	That wasn't what I meant, and you know it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u65	That's how I heard it. Let me tell you that I am at least as much as you are the advocate of rural school. I have the numbers in front of me, and they are interesting: one of the previous governments that you supported abolished 14 classes in the Sarthe in 2014, 18 the following year, 25 at the beginning of 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u66	You're in charge now, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u67	Indeed: at the start of 2017, we created 11 classes; at the beginning of 2018, 12. So I don't know who, from the government you supported or from the government to which I belong, sacrificed rural school the most, but the fact is that we created classes in the Sarthe. Of course, it is true that this year there are 847 fewer students in your department. However, there will be only 10 full-time equivalents less, where there should be at least 25 full-time equivalents. Also, when you describe the duplication of the CP and CE1 classes as a rural school sacrifice, you are wrong because this is not the case: we have given ourselves the means both to realize the duplication and to support the rural school. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your speech tends to reinforce rural desperation by trying to make believe that the Government is mad at the rural world, which is not true. I continue to support rural schools, so that we close far fewer classes than the government you supported. So your speech is neither fair nor honest. So, yes, we will continue to defend rural school; Yes, I invite you to participate in our strategy: let's look at how this can be achieved in the Sarthe. Only, for that to happen, a just and just speech must be made in time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u68	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u69	Our health system, and particularly that of school health, is characterized by a serious mismatch between objectives and means: less than 1000 school doctors, a very unequal territorial distribution ranging from a doctor for 2000 students to a doctor for 40,000 students, and finally 7,500 nurses for 12.5 million students, i.e. one for 598 students in the ideal. As a result, only 57 per cent of children were examined by a doctor or school nurse in 2015, a situation that penalizes children from disadvantaged backgrounds and the 3 million poor children for whom school remains the only place of access to care and screening for disorders that often lead to school failure. How could this situation improve with the new obligation of a visit between 3 and 4 years and with what new means? As the number of doctors and nurses declines every year, and the attractiveness and conditions for the exercise of these professions deteriorate, the tasks entrusted to these personnel multiply. I want to warn you about the fears of nurses who, in schools, in a non-hierarchical but close relationship with the doctor, social worker and head of school, are major relays of the young people's health path. In 2015, the school's re-foundation law had redefined their mission and attempted to adapt school health policy to the changing society. Nurses conducted 15 million consultations at the student's request! It is on them that health promotion is primarily based; their mission of reception, listening and follow-up is essential. Some 80 per cent of young people who use school medicine do not have clinical symptoms, which speaks volumes about the relational role that these health workers also play. They provide care, participate in the requirements of individualised reception projects – PAI – in conjunction with the teaching teams, ensure the coordination of students with disabilities with the departmental houses of the disabled – CDMH –, follow the children detected from the age of 6, intervene for emergencies, problems of abuse or those related to disability. In short, they have real expertise that we need to value while offering them additional training opportunities. It is this collaboration with physicians that the organization of school health policies must promote, in a concrete way, while maintaining the autonomy and specificity of the mission of school nurses. So, minister, I ask you to give us the place and the prospects you intend to give this profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u70	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u71	The issue of school health is essential. As you pointed out, setting the age of compulsory education at 3 years will allow us to make progress. Thus, in the bill for a school of trust, there is an ardent obligation that it will not be easy to satisfy – but we are going to do it – that is, to carry out a medical examination not at the age of 6 – of which less than half of the students only benefit today – but at the age of 3 and 4 for all children. This is a huge challenge that we have set ourselves and that requires, in order to be met, that we have more human resources than financial resources because, as you mentioned, not all positions are filled – so it will be necessary to strengthen the attractiveness of school medicine. We will therefore organize ourselves and do so in the light of the Rist report we are waiting for by the end of March. The Minister of Solidarity and Health and I will draw all the consequences. In the meantime, we already have some ideas on how we can move forward, in particular by promoting greater cooperation between city medicine and school medicine, so that doctors have time for these visits, and by providing for the collaboration of the Directorate of Maternal and Child Protection – DPMI – on these medical visits. The issue of school health goes beyond health workers – doctors and nurses – because it is the entire educational community that needs to be made aware of these issues, if only to make a better start between the educational difficulties found in kindergarten and health problems. The main solutions are in any case based on much closer cooperation between non-formal health workers and school health workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u72	We come to the questions of the IDU, Action and Independent Group. Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u73	By the decree of 16 June 2017, amending the decree of 19 May 2015, you took over the organisation of teachings in college classes, in order to give more flexibility and autonomy to the institutions. Among the actual changes, we can mention the expanded modalities for the implementation of interdisciplinary practical lessons – PPE –, without any minimum number. The return of European sections and the upgrading of old language schedules are also very positive changes. The "duty done" device is a great step forward: since it has been applied, the reduction of punishments – I do not like this term, let's say: warnings – for duties not done is already notable and promotes a climate of pedagogical confidence. Minister, we can only welcome these virtuous measures because they enhance equal opportunities. Indeed, the reform limited teaching to twenty-six hours a week for all, which was very reducing for public education colleges who wanted to do more. However, it remains very complicated to draw up a real financial balance sheet of the application of the decree of 16 June 2017. If the budget envelope was large in the year these measures were put in place, it would appear that it was smaller the following year, and it is even apparent that next year some institutions will have to draw on their own funds to maintain certain arrangements, such as precisely "dutys done". Can you inform us about the implementation of these measures, as well as the satisfaction they give us? And since my question is about colleges, could you give us some information about the classes of third "prepa-pro" to which I know you very much attached?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u74	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u75	Thank you, Member, for reminding us of all the elements intended to make the college evolve and which form a whole since our objective is both to stabilize the college and to pull each one up with greater attractiveness and educational devices aimed at personalising the courses. In this sense, the "work done" system occupies a central place in the evolution of the college. It is a measure, I insist, of which the importance cannot be underestimated. It may appear as a technique, marginal while in fact it is fundamental. I visit many colleges and the "work done" scheme concerns 500,000 students, or about 20% of students – a fairly large proportion already – and, each time, in terms of quality, I see major developments. As soon as yesterday, in Lyon – I quote this example but I have seen it dozens of times – a sixth grader, who had difficulties, who was often punished, told me that thanks to "work done" she felt happy to go to college and that she was succeeding. Pupils' averages are increasing; The relationships between people also change considerably, between the teacher and the student, between the teacher and the parents, between the children and their parents. It is therefore, if you pass the expression, a positive virus. We are putting the means into it and I want to reassure you fully: in 2019, under the finance bill, we will spend 246 million euros on it, a very clear increase, even a considerable one. This should enable us to pursue a policy of raising the general level but also of social justice. This is also why we are considering first-degree extensions and start overseas in 2019, because the need is very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u76	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u77	On Friday 22 February, part of France's youth marched to Paris for the climate alongside a young Swedish high school girl, Greta. For several weeks, many young people across Europe have been committed to the future of the planet. Our production and consumption model needs to be radically changed. This requirement must become a project of society, a positive project of mobilization for youth in order to meet this great challenge of the twenty-first century. This ambition involves training a generation of "eco-citizens" and school is the preferred place to succeed in this educational mission. The "Education for Sustainable Development" scheme was a first step to enable young people to understand the challenges of environmental protection. The label "School in Sustainable Development Approach" – E3D – also goes in the right direction. However, it is essential to move on to another stage. While the Government has embarked on a proactive school reform plan, which I fully support, it is an opportunity to launch new actions. The school is a great way to raise the awareness of the new generation about environmental protection, to teach ecological actions from an early age, and to raise awareness of sustainable development issues. That is how we can bring out a more responsible generation and prepare it for the new jobs of green growth. I am convinced that communities can act effectively through out-of-school workshops to which we could usefully give more meaning by working with associations in particular. In Paris, we have a powerful lever that still needs to be activated. Minister, can you tell us what new initiatives the Government intends to take in the field of education on sustainable development?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u78	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u79	I am of course in full agreement with you, honourable Member. We are all fully aware that this is the subject of our time and that children and adolescents must be the first actors in the necessary transformations. You recalled the two dimensions to be taken into consideration: teaching and action. As far as teaching is concerned, the work carried out for at least twenty years, and in depth year after year, bears fruit and gives satisfaction even if one can always do better. In other words, in the programmes, whether in primary school, college or high school, sustainable development issues are present. In fact, the new generation of 18-year-olds who show the importance they attach to the climate is the product of this training. We have strengthened it in the new high school programs – this will be particularly the case for the end-class programs that will be released in a few weeks – which include climate change issues – I want to reassure you on this point because I have been told of concerns. We can still improve this teaching, especially through the training of teachers – satisfactory, I hope we will make it very satisfactory. I'm coming to action. How do we respond to young people's thirst for environmental commitment from primary school onwards? You said quite correctly: there is the school aspect and the extra-curricular aspect. The "Wednesday" plan, for example, is an opportunity to engage children in a relationship with nature and to encourage them to take action that relates to nature. Many initiatives – you mentioned the E3D label – aim to make students involved in the environment and ecology. I recently visited in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine an exemplary college where the students work on the energy expenditure of the institution and led to it being reduced by two. Their attitude has had an influence on their families and, more generally, on the community – we are thinking of the CUBE competition, usage contests and efficient building. The universal national service will also go in this direction. The involvement of students in concrete actions for the environment is at the heart of our policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u80	We come to the questions of the Group of the European People's Party. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u81	In Vanves, a briefing on the reform of the high school for parents and pupils is prohibited by the rectorate. In Bouches-du-Rhône, an e-mail from the Academic Director of National Education Services – DASEN – specifically asks school heads to "not accommodate common meeting times between teachers, parents of students and students." In Dijon, a teacher is summoned by the Rector for writing a satirical article on a television appearance by Emmanuel Macron. In Chelles, a national education inspector reminds teachers that they are required to "strictly neutral on social networks" and to "fairly measure outside their professional setting". Clause 1 of your bill – which requires an "exemplarity of teachers" – has not yet come into force that it appears to be already applied. Is it necessary to remind you that this notion of exemplarity finds its source in a decision of the Council of State for a serious fact of paedophilia? If the fact for teachers to ask for a debate on your policy becomes an offence of failure to follow the example, it is that you require them to have a duty of reservation that has so far only concerned the administrative management of your institution. The teachers have understood your project well: you want to put them to a standstill. They even told me their feelings of being trapped in their own school. For to this prison of thought is added a geographical prison. Your latest circular on intra-departmental movement obliges them to express wishes for mobility by living pool: they can no longer ask for a particular school. This is a way of assigning them to residence, because many of them will not move because they will fear that their working conditions will deteriorate even further. This will of course have consequences for the children of the working-class neighbourhoods, who will have only inexperienced teachers in front of them. Minister, I have two questions. Why does your school of trust rest on so much mistrust and constraints for the teaching staff who are carrying your institution on a daily basis? Does your educational policy consist of training rather than educating future citizens by already muzzling the words of those who are supposed to train them in analysis and critical thinking?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u82	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u83	Madam Member, you will recognize that your question actually includes several. It also presents a contradiction since you illustrate the supposed dangers of clause 1 of the bill to a school of trust by quoting real examples, while the text does not yet apply. If we had the objectives that you are lending us, you can see that we would not need this Article 1 because the legal provisions in force already allow us to do what you do not like us to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u84	It's a reasoning by the absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u85	Yet what we do is not so dramatic: we simply enforce laws that you defend yourself. I am thinking of the Act of 13 July 1983 on the rights and obligations of civil servants, known as the Le Pors Act, which we referred to in the text you adopted at first reading. All the political traditions represented in this Chamber recognize that officials have rights and duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u86	Anicet Le Pors was a great minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u87	We rely on existing law to enforce a number of principles. The examples you have cited are extremely heterogeneous. You mentioned a number of meetings. I know some of the cases you mentioned, but not all of them. I was struck by the fact that after the holiday of Toussaint, some people just thought that they would transform information meetings scheduled to help students decide for the following year, into meetings... I don't know how to qualify them. Let's say in militant meetings against high school reform. It is obvious that this was not appropriate. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This is in line with comments I have already made. Perhaps those interested may think they are very progressive, but, in reality, they do not do the good of the students. What is the purpose of caricature reform and distressing students by telling them things that are sometimes wrong, even though their mission, for example if they are a senior teacher, is to enlighten students in a totally neutral and objective manner? Let us remember that the principle of secularism, to which we are very attached, is also a principle of neutrality, and not only on the religious level. He assumes that one wants the good of the students by orienting them normally. I don't have time to tell you more, but I could have done it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u88	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u89	Since February many teachers in Seine-Saint-Denis have been sounding alarm bells, faced with the concrete consequences of the policy that you are driving. You know that, because this has resulted in strikes or nights spent in institutions. Many have mobilized to alert parents to what they feel is worrying about the future and to share their critical reading of your reforms – in a way, you have addressed this issue in your previous response. Let us be concrete: they usually demand decent working conditions. At the start of 2019, the Seine-Saint-Denis will welcome 2,000 new students. In the second degree, about 250 new teaching posts would be needed to accommodate them, whereas, if I am not mistaken, it is only planned to create about 60. Many organizations also note that 58 of these 60 positions are only a redeployment of hours – particularly overtime. In the first degree, you are planning an additional 282 posts for next year. Of course, there is a progression, but this does not allow for your own reform aimed at doubling the classes of CE1 in REP. There are 160 schools in the Seine-Saint-Denis in REP. Each of them with an average of two classes of EC1, at least 320 posts would be required for duplication. We're not there! I do not want to argue, but you see that there are many concrete elements that lead to doubt. I could mention the cases of several institutions in my constituency. At Jean Jaurès High School in Montreuil, there will be forty-eight hours of less lessons starting next year. I could also mention the cases of the Horticultural High School, still in Montreuil, the Politzer Colleges of Montreuil and Bagnolet, or the Lenain College of Tillemont. The latter institution is classified in REP+, but, in practice, the decline in resources means that next year the split classes will no longer be able to be divided. Minister, neither you nor the Prime Minister, who received us in Matignon, dispute the conclusions of the information report tabled on May 31 by our colleagues François Cornut-Gentille and Rodrigue Kokouendo. It states that "the least well equipped of the Parisian establishments is better equipped than the most endowed of the institutions of the Seine-Saint-Denis". A desire for justice is expressed for this department. The teachers mobilized, who are the honor of their profession, do not demand anything for them, but more for their students. In concrete terms, beyond the announcement effects, or the presentation of figures to which your great administration knows how to make say what it wants, when will you create the conditions for equality to finally prevail in favour of this department that needs it so much?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u90	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u91	Mr President, we are both attached to the Seine-Saint-Denis, a department on which a rich debate took place in the Chamber on 5 February. We said that evening the need to make a fair diagnosis, and not to "desperate Saint-Denis," if I may say so, by drawing a picture that would not be entirely accurate. In fact, today things are going well in Seine-Saint-Denis, and progress is being made. The rate of access to higher education in the department is, for example, higher than the national average. The job creations you mentioned might appeal to other departments. The figures for colleges must be put into perspective. The rates of supervision in the colleges of Seine-Saint-Denis are, for example, much better than those in Paris intra-muros. We get the results you quote because we rely on the treatment of teachers who are more experienced and therefore better paid in Paris intra-muros – so it is fairer to point out this problem than that of supervision rates. Moreover, these differences would be observed regardless of the territory concerned in comparison with Paris, where the many preparatory classes of high schools are included in the calculations. This creates distortions that do not facilitate perfectly accurate reasoning. There is obviously a subject in the Seine-Saint-Denis, but it would not be true to say that we do not have a strategy to deal with it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you for paying tribute to the duplication of the classes of CP and EC1 by expressing your impatience for the continued implementation of this scheme. I'm glad. It is true that we see a slight delay in the implementation for the CE1 of REP – exceptionally a year for some classes, where this is linked more to problems of premises than human resources. Our policy in REP+ aims to stabilize teachers in Seine-Saint-Denis, and we want them to be happy – I also answer Mrs Rubin's previous question. The Seine-Saint-Denis is the main beneficiary department, on the one hand, of the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 and, on the other hand, of the premium REP + which will result in the next re-entry by 2000 euros more for the teachers concerned. This is obviously an element of attractiveness, therefore a positive element for the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u92	We come to the questions of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u93	Minister, I would have liked to talk to you about the rural schools in my constituency, but I hope that the arrival of a new DASEN will allow us to work, in a respectful dialogue, with the educational community and ourselves. I could have told you about the shared diagnosis we made in Dieppe on the situation of the school, and the proposals we made, but as I have given you a dossier on this, I hope that you will take care to answer it point by point. I will therefore focus on the reform of high schools tonight. I have the feeling that the school of the Republic is sick, and that the social elevator it offered has been broken for many years. The only question that is worth asking is whether the reforms that add up and those that you propose are likely to repair the social elevator. I feel like I'm not! According to their social, cultural and relational heritage – one of which Pierre Bourdieu explained to us that it was crucial for the success of studies – I have the feeling that the complexity of the reform of high schools will not place all parents and children on an equal footing in the choice of options. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Even more serious, I have the feeling that the overall schedules – DHG – of colleges and high schools are falling. I am thinking of the high school of Neufchâtel-en-Bray in which two classes are abolished in the DHG, or of the Braque college of Dieppe, a college out of ZEP, for which the DHG makes us fear the worst. I am thinking of the Pablo Neruda high school, in Dieppe, in which three classes have been abolished, or the Camille Saint-Saëns high school in Rouen where the principal has already announced that it would not be possible, given the DHG being developed, to ensure the teachings of living language 3 or Latin. I feel that, depending on where you live, depending on where you are born, the choice of options will not be the same. Ultimately, the ability of children and parents to build a wealth of options as a basis for further education will not be the same for all. How can we ensure territorial equality and social equality with the DHGs under development?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u94	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u95	Your question includes several, but you mainly ask me about the objective of social justice that we pursue through the various reforms such as that of high school. I believe that the reform of the general high school, to which you referred, is in the direction of social justice, particularly in terms of the orientation you have chosen to stress. If the current situation was satisfactory, you would say so, but your very words clearly show that we need to change things. So far, when you did not choose section S of the general track, de facto, after the second class, you closed a series of doors. There was an explicit or implicit hierarchy of sections of the general track in France. It's a fact. That is why I am very surprised to hear critics say today that we are creating an early orientation, whereas it is quite the opposite. There will now be a reversibility of choices, and opportunities for bridges. A much less standardized view of the student's journey is possible. There is also a psychological effect that I consider very positive. In fact, we now have questions in the second class that we did not previously ask ourselves at this stage. They came too late, for example at the end of the senior year, and the result was very random choices to enter higher education. Today, I see that second-hand students are wondering about computer programs or history programs first, and how this can relate to what they want to do after the bachelor's degree. They decide according to that. Asking this kind of question is precisely what will improve social justice, because it forces all students, regardless of their social background, to ask themselves the right questions. If, moreover, as we have foreseen, more time is devoted to orientation, and this time falls under the responsibility of different actors, starting with the main teachers, then yes, we give ourselves the means to accompany all students, regardless of their social milieu, towards choices exercised with greater continuity and much better control. From this angle too, the reform of the high school goes in the direction, not only of raising the general level but also of social justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u96	The options are à la carte!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u97	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u98	Once again, the rural territories are worried, and the Association of Rural Mayors of France expresses this in a recent communiqué. Mayors denounce an attack on proximity and refuse school concentration. They denounce the bias of the state and voted by the majority to penalize rural youth and their families by increasing the concentration of schools in cantonal capitals. Mayor for 15 years of Saint-Menoux, a rural commune of 1000 inhabitants in the Allier, I received many couples of young people who wanted to settle there. The first question they asked me was the school and its environment. "Is there a kindergarten, a daycare, a canteen? What forms of guard can be found in the commune? » These elements are crucial to life choices. The attractiveness of rural areas is closely linked to the services they can provide. If tomorrow the school is concentrated in the canton's capital, it will be the death of the small communes. RPIs exist, which allow schools to be maintained where necessary. But it is not possible to think of school only through mutualisation schemes: the particularities of each rural area must be taken into account. Over the past decades, successive municipal teams, in conjunction with parents and teachers, have continuously built or modernized equipment suitable for the education of children to give them every chance of success. I do not think that the rural children are doing any less well than the others, as you yourself said earlier. [[Sébastien Jumel applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. Mr. Régis Juanico also applauds]] And all of this should be stored in the closet? No! The school is the heart that beats in a commune and when the heart stops, it's death! This is not what people in rural areas want, and many people are expressing it at the moment. Do not strengthen yet this feeling of abandonment, this feeling of being forgotten by the Republic, so widely tried! We want policies adapted to our territories, not territories adapted to your policies!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u99	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u100	[[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] I would be tempted, honourable Member, to give you an extremely short answer, saying, "With the exception of your conclusion, I fully agree with you. Indeed, apart from your very last sentences, there is not the thickness of a piece of cigarette paper between what you said and what I think: we both want a living and toned rural school. You are a thousand times right to say that not everything must be concentrated in the cantonal capital, and I confirm that this is not our intention. If your question allows me to be even more explicit than I was, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that our aim is not to carry out mutualisations leading to the devitalisation of rural communities. This is not the policy followed, as is attested by what I say in the meetings of rectors or DASEN, or here. Everywhere I have the same speech: we support rural schools, while taking into account demographic realities. In this regard, I will not go back to what I have said about the need for demographic strategies. You have perfectly explained the reasoning of young families, and we must set in motion a virtuous circle: the vitality of a rural school in a territory encourages families to settle, which in turn justifies the development of the school concerned. That is the strategy pursued. I agree with you too when you stress the need to adapt to the particularities of each territory. Each case is in fact particular: in such a territory, the RPI is the right solution, and we know that there are many ways to put one in place, the choices in this matter being made by elected officials and educational communities; In other cases, particularly in the case of distance issues, it is better to maintain the existing school, even if it has only one class or two. Of course, it is a matter of making pragmatic choices, and that is the practice. Hence this idea of a toolbox that I have mentioned: the legal framework applicable to this subject must allow us to consider several formulas – one school and one college, several schools grouped together, the maintenance of a school – in order to take account of local realities. But the goal that we must pursue together, honourable Member, includes its psychological part: our speeches must not be speeches of despair. The Government supports rural schools. Say it as much as I do because it will contribute to the solution of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u101	We come to the questions of the Freedom and Territory Group. Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u102	Last January, during a trip on the occasion of the major national debate, President Macron recalled: "School and health are the two drivers of our investment because they are investments on people. The Liberties and Territories Group can of course only agree. This finding is all the more shared in rural areas and isolated, and they are the first to suffer from the closures of public services, not only in the field of health, but also in education. At first glance, however, when reading the figures, investments seem rather positive. Education is the first state budget for defence and health, with more than 150 billion euros invested in 2017. But international comparisons lead to a relativization of this finding. Thus, France is one of the OECD's worst ranked countries in terms of educational investment: since 1995, the share of national wealth devoted to education has lost a GDP point, from 7.5% to 6.5%; expenditure is, on average, 15% lower for elementary students than in other OECD countries; As far as higher education is concerned, we know that universities are experiencing difficulties, I am thinking of the dozens of posts frozen at the start of the school year in Lille, and this is just one example, since many French universities have insufficient budgets, even though the number of students is increasing. The main problem is the persistent underfunding of the state, again well below the OECD average. At the same time, the Government is implementing new educational policies. No major reform Blanquer, but a number of developments: I am thinking in particular of the reform of the baccalaureate, which raises, among other things, questions in terms of digital investment, the doubling of the classes of CP and EC1, or, most recently, the lowering of the age of compulsory education to 3 years, which requires organizing itself in the premises, especially by creating enough dormitories, etc. Some of these reforms can sound like good promises for the education of our children. If the ideas are good, the question of means is no less a question. I therefore turn to my general but important question: how does the Government intend to finance all the measures announced? Will local and regional authorities bear alone, as some express the fear, costs and investments necessary to implement your reforms?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u103	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u104	Mr President, thank you for your question. I know your commitment to the school of the Republic and to the fundamental role it plays in the heart of our society. I also thank you for reminding you of the words of the President of the Republic, which are very important and which have been well noted as such by many observers. To say, in the context of the great debate, that education and health are the pillars of society is obviously essential and inspires a whole series of reasonings, including those that are yours. One can reason from the share of public resources devoted to education in relation to gross domestic product. You have recalled that France is in the middle, but we also know that this average conceals more abnormal realities, in particular the fact that we devote insufficient resources to the first degree. That is precisely what the Government is now seeking to rebalance. One can also reason by taking into account the association of the various public actors, in particular the State and local authorities, around the issue of education. This is what makes up the bulk of public expenditure on this matter. Yes, ambitious reforms are under way. Yes, some of them require additional resources: this is the case of the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 with the creation of related posts, but also, for example, of the lowering of the age of compulsory education to 3 years. It would not be fair to describe this as a source of additional burdens for communities when the state does not increase the resources allocated. In fact, first of all, I would like to point out that the budgetary means increase by 1.8% in 2019 compared to 2018, which is substantial; Then, that the state will accompany the communities in the additional costs that may result from these new public policies: I am thinking in particular of the duplication of classes, the prefects having focused the state's investments in favour of what the elected officials have done for the CPs and the EC1. The establishment of the age of compulsory education at 3 years will also be an opportunity, not only because the State will reimburse each municipality for the extra burden I have already said in this Chamber, but also because the prefects will again be at the side of the municipalities for the investment in the modernization of the premises in nursery schools, a vehicle for modernisation in which the State will assume its entire share.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u105	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u106	All the so-called regional languages of France are now considered to be in great danger of extinction. The Government must therefore pursue an ambitious policy of promoting and developing the teaching of these regional languages in schools. In the opinion of field associations, teachers and parents, the reform of the high school and the baccalaureate may seriously damage the "regional language" option in the different regions. The regional language will then compete with foreign languages for the second living language. The choice will be Cornelian: to abandon English, German or Spanish to the benefit of Occitan, Basque or Breton... Unfortunately I fear that the choice will be made quickly. The right solution, requested by the associations and by the elected representatives concerned – I am thinking of Mrs Delga in Occitanie or Mr Chesnais-Girard in Brittany – is to ensure that the regional languages enjoy the same status as the languages and cultures of antiquity, in the context of special education. Would you be ready? In the continuation of this measure, it would also be necessary to create a second optional regional language option whose coefficient and method of marking would be aligned with those of the languages and cultures of ancient times. Do you also intend, Minister, to maintain the possibility of validating the regional language at the baccalaureate level for free candidates? Second topic: positions in the special competition for the recruitment of teachers of schools in Brittany. The State is not fulfilling its commitments with respect to open posts. Thus, according to the Convention on Bilingualism, backed by the plan contract signed between the State and the region in 2015, it was planned to have 15% bilingual positions among the positions open to the school teacher recruitment competition as early as 2016 and to reach the 20% threshold in 2020. However, we learned that of the 120 open positions, only sixteen would be open to bilingual teachers, i.e. only 13%! How can we open the twenty-nine classes planned for next year's school year? Will bilingual students find themselves in classes without a teacher? The information would certainly make the newspaper cabbages... But neither I nor you care about this kind of advertising, do you? Such a situation would be all the more regrettable given that there are, for once, many candidates in this special competition, and that we can no longer oppose the argument of the pool numerically too weak. All the conditions are therefore met to reach at least the 20% threshold, or even to meet the needs, i.e. to allow the opening of the twenty-nine classes scheduled for the beginning of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u107	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u108	Mr President, I know your commitment to the school of the Republic as well as to the regional languages, and it is only natural that you should ask me again on this point. Nevertheless, and perhaps that will be the red line of my speeches this evening, I think that the speech that you will be holding is an element of the solution: there is no point in blackening the situation when we are seeing progress, as I told you during the examination of the bill for a school of trust. On the subject you are referring to, this text contains many advances which it is desirable to stress. The first is that the school will continue to encourage the use of regional languages. Yesterday, they could be spoken with family but not at school; Today, the situation has reversed: we talk about them at school and unfortunately not so much with the family. This inversion, it must be noted, is indeed a sign of voluntarism on the part of the school of the Republic. There is therefore no ostracism with regard to regional languages. Of course, we must not compete between languages. And that's not at all what my ministry does. In this regard, one of the major advances has been the equal recognition of foreign languages and regional languages by giving them a strong status in the context of the reform of the high school. It has been insufficiently stressed that these languages can be taught in specialty education – this is true in each of the regions concerned. It is therefore possible, Mr Molac, to have four hours a week from Breton to first and six hours a year as a specialty education. This is still a considerable step forward. Secondly, I do not think we should compare the options between them. The reference you make to Latin and Greek refers to an exception. I know that in a number of areas, not only regional languages, some want to compare them with Latin and Greek, which I assume to have made an exception for because they are not spoken in family or school and are at risk of extinction. I would remind you that they are not unrelated to the regional languages – even if, I grant you, this one is less with Breton than with Occitan. We wish in the future to ensure the development of both Latin and regional languages. I repeat that these are subject to special education and that their teaching as an option is not changed. Furthermore, the means provided for the teaching of the Breton language are an encouragement, as you know, we have spoken about it again recently. I therefore believe that policy in this area is now balanced and progress is being made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u109	We come to the questions of the La République group on the move. Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u110	The employment rate of 15-24 year olds in France, which is 28.6%, remains well below the European average of 34.6%; It is also low in comparison with neighbouring countries, particularly the Netherlands, where the youth employment rate is 61.9%. The unemployment rate of young people in France is particularly alarming, and when we know that in 2017, the unemployment rate of non-qualified people was almost four times higher than that of those with a baccalaureate, we can only welcome the measures taken to facilitate the construction of their personal and professional careers for each young person: I am thinking in particular of the reform of general and professional baccalaureates and the emphasis placed on guidance within the framework of the law for the freedom to choose their professional future. A major step forward is the recently passed confidence-building bill, which makes training compulsory for young people between the ages of 16 and 18. These young people, whom we wish to "give up" to the school system, are divided into two categories: dropouts and dropouts. As far as dropouts are concerned, rather than being in the palliative, what proactive policy could we have in terms of school retention, i.e. prevention? While the continuity of policies since 2008 has reduced the number of dropouts from 140000 to 100,000 per year, these results remain insufficient: we must be more ambitious. An interesting experiment in school perseverance, called "Motiv'action" and based on Quebec work, has been conducted since the 2014 school year in the Rouen Academy. It aims to provide teachers with tools to identify and respond to weak drop-out signals. It would be appropriate to make an evaluation of these practices in order, if necessary, to be able to generalize them. Can you, Minister, present us with the measures you wish to implement to continue the fight against early school leaving?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u111	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u112	Madam Member, like the fever measured by the thermometer, dropping out of school is a signal that something is wrong with the system: the stronger it is, the more it signs a collective failure. We must of course fight this collective failure as far upstream as possible, but also, where necessary, downstream. All of our strategies are part of the upstream struggle: in a certain way, everything that is done for the school, especially the work aimed at anchoring basic knowledge in primary school, is likely to limit school drop-out. There are also more specific policies. I recall, Madam Member, your suggestion regarding "Motiv'action". It is indeed necessary to evaluate the results of this experience of Quebec origin, which I have analysed a few points and which is indeed very encouraging. Several experiments are under way around the world, which must be looked at because several countries succeed in preventing the drop-out: it is very clearly necessary to draw inspiration from it. You were right to note the progress made by France over the past ten years, in particular by a great continuity of public policies but also by a better ability to identify dropouts. This is the second type of measure that needs to be emphasized in the future: to be able to find the drop-off person where he is and to offer him a suitable solution. Clearly, the confidence school bill, which you passed on first reading and which provides for a 16 to 18-year-old training obligation, requires us to take a new step. First of all, we need to improve our means of identifying dropouts by strengthening the mutualization between local missions, national education and all public and private actors. We will do so, and we will organize ourselves in this perspective. We also need to be able to offer more concrete solutions to hanging students. Let us mention all that will be done especially by professional lycées to welcome students who return to school: this is a very important point. There is also the development of microlycées, which have shown their effectiveness in bringing students back to school, often in general education. Professional microlycées may also develop in the future. This will be done systematically in each academy in France. Of course, we also encourage all second chance school-type devices. The cooperation between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of National Education will be full and complete on the subject, so that the compulsory training provided between the ages of 16 and 18 is effective for all the young people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u113	Mr Yannick Kerlogot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u114	Minister, I would like you to be able to shed some light on a new device that I believe in, but which still raises many questions – particularly within the educational community – that sometimes go as far as caricature. This is the result of an amendment defended by Cécile Rilhac at the first reading of the bill for a school of trust. It makes it possible to set up local public institutions for the teaching of basic knowledge – EPLESF. This new proposal must, in my view, make it possible, among other things, to alleviate the isolation felt by many of my former colleagues when they are stationed in schools with only two or three classes: these schools have the greatest difficulty in keeping their teachers in the long term, especially in hyper-rural territories. For let's say: it's more difficult to develop a school project for two than for ten! Elected from a department, the Côtes-d'Armors, which loses 800 students every year, I know that in some territories, one cannot escape the requirement of reorganisation of schools: it has begun for several decades, especially through RPI. It must be able to continue without giving up the public service, but on the contrary to allow a new articulation and a logic of association to strengthen the institutions concerned. I remain convinced that future local public institutions for the teaching of basic knowledge can, in rural areas, guarantee unity in the course of schooling, from kindergarten to third. As you recalled, these EPLESFs are, first and foremost, a voluntary networking of schools, namely one or more schools and a college in the same territory. The possibility offered to them of grouping on the same site according to the establishment project will only be possible at the initiative of the actors concerned. You have confirmed that such a project cannot be imposed on the teachers, the mayors of the municipalities concerned, or on the departmental council on which the college depends. It can only be carried out on the initiative of those who wish to cooperate. Can you, Minister, re-identify the structure of the bodies of such a public institution: what become of the school boards, the teachers' councils, the cycle boards, the pedagogical councils and the board of directors of the college? Some believe that this would undermine the independence and specific status of primary school. They fear second-degree guardianship and question the risk of community interference, beyond their prerogatives, in the operation of colleges and schools. Can you reassure them? Similarly, can you guarantee the flexibility of such a device? If it does not meet the objectives set, can it be easily put an end to it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u115	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u116	Thank you, honourable Member, because your question gives me the opportunity to clarify what is behind the EPLESF, knowing – let us not forget – that the bill for a school of trust still needs to be examined by the Senate and that the provisions that it will contain at the end of its parliamentary journey will have to be translated into regulations. Our discussions can therefore still have a significant impact on what we are going to clarify. Anyway, we can be extremely reassuring. First of all, I say again in front of you, this whole arrangement is based on volunteerism. No one will be forced to go in this direction: again, it is an instrument in a toolbox. Secondly, it is first and foremost pragmatism that will have to inspire the regulations after the enactment of the law. With regard to the reversibility of the scheme, it seems, of course, that the possibility must always remain of recreating a primary school when desired. With regard to governance, it is certainly not necessary to weaken what is the strength of primary school or college. I point out, moreover, that in the face of this evolution, the first degree has the fear of being subordinated and the second degree the fear of being primarized: it is, if I dare say, natural. Yes, it is obvious that we are pushing for collaborations. Yes, it is clear that there will be common governance in these EPLESFs: it is even the meaning of what is done. Having said that, the first degree and the second degree have their respective logics: they must be preserved. The governance arrangements we will have to be flexible, to take into account, too, local realities: things will be different, for example, depending on whether the institutions concerned are grouped in the same place or whether they operate in a network. In any case, we must preserve what is the strength of the current structures: I am thinking, for example, of the physical presence of the director in his school, which is a very important point. We must keep what is good and change what is not, in this case, lack of coordination, administrative weakness and lack of critical mass – you alluded to it. This is clearly the spirit in which we will implement the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u117	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u118	Minister, a reform of our bachelor's degree is under way which will be completed in 2021. It will give birth to a more modern baccalaureate, with new teachings and programs open to major contemporary issues such as digital and ecology. It will above all allow the baccalaureate to be fairer, because it will take into account the work and progress of high school students over two years. Finally, this reform will make it possible to better support pupils in guidance so that they can make personalised choices up to higher education. It will be articulated with Parcoursup, with the same objective: to improve the success of our young people through more choices, more freedom and more accompaniment. This reform of the baccalaureate was built by consultation and consultation: an online consultation has thus gathered more than 46,000 contributions from high school students, and this dialogue continues during the implementation of the reform. This is progressive since the 2018 school year: so, the second-grade students, who will pass this new baccalaureate in 2020, have already benefited from a digital test of positioning in French and mathematics. The specialties offered in each institution were announced before the Christmas holidays, and since the beginning of January 2019, secondary school students from the general high schools have started to think with their families and teachers about the specialty teachings they will choose in June. At the announcement of the new teachings proposed and the academic maps of the specialties, concerns were expressed regarding the options, but also about the scientific subjects, and more particularly mathematics. Some scientific associations have thus deplored the low degree of attention given to this discipline. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, can you tell us how this reform of the baccalaureate, far from weakening mathematics, will, on the contrary, make it possible, thanks to the teachings of specialty, to strengthen this discipline? Then, how will it be possible to best adapt to the needs of students in this important subject, like others? Finally, allow the agronomist that I am also to ask you about the place reserved for life and earth sciences which also worries some professors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u119	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u120	Madam Member, your question, which concerns mathematics in particular, is important: I am aware that the subject is the subject of debate and sometimes gives rise to concerns. It is perfectly normal that an upheaval as important as this reform of the baccalaureate and the general path gives rise to as many questions about the future of the specialties. Therefore, this debate does not surprise me. However, it is important to recall a number of realities. First of all, mathematics is undoubtedly the discipline most present in the new architecture. It is very paradoxical to see so many concerns about this discipline when it is the only one that can be said to be in each of the three blocks of the reform. Contrary to what I have heard in many places, it is present in the common bloc, through scientific teachings, which include many mathematics. It is also in a mode that can be described as inductive or practical, because it is through great scientific problems that mathematics will be found. In this we followed the recommendations of the Villani-Torossian report: we wanted mathematics for all, mathematics that makes students envy, whatever their profile. These mathematics will therefore be taught in second, first and final stages within the common block. It is quite surprising that some are wondering about a possible absence of mathematics even though today, in section L, the first and final students do not do it at all! Tomorrow, in the new organization, all students will do at least a bit of mathematics – probably quite simple, but that's so much better, because it has to be addressed to all students. Then, of course, mathematics can be chosen as a specialty teaching. We can even bet that this will be the most widely followed discipline among the twelve teachings proposed. So she's not in any way downgraded. Finally, this is the only discipline that can be found twice among the options, both as expert mathematics, at the rate of three hours, completing the specialty teaching – that is nine hours of mathematics in total for the most math students, compared to eight today in terminal S, which corresponds well to a reinforcement – and as complementary mathematics, with three hours of teaching for those who, having not chosen this discipline in specialty teaching, will still want to do a little more mathematics in order, for example, to complete the teachings of SVT, physics, or economy. In addition, the programmes of other disciplines will include mathematics in an integrated manner: I am thinking in particular of economics. Finally, it should be recalled that the revision of the curricula was an opportunity to make the mathematics programs more in-depth, in the name of one of the principles of this reform which is that one is able to further deepen what one chooses, and therefore that one likes. As Cédric Villani, more qualified than anyone else on the subject, pointed out, mathematics emerges reinforced from the reform. We must therefore, on this point, reassure ourselves of the concerns that are emerging, of course in good faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u121	Mr Bertrand Sorre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u122	Minister, the national education budget is today the first state budget, with funding rising in 2019 by more than 850 million euros. As a former teacher, I can only rejoice. From the beginning of the quinquennium, priority was given not only to primary school but also to school inclusion. You, Minister, have taken important steps, such as the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in the REPs and REP+ in order to deploy, or rather to redeploy, educational policy in all territories without exception. These measures have made it possible to combat school difficulties from an early age. In particular, I will focus on basic knowledge: reading, writing, counting and respecting others. Every teacher knows that children who do not master this knowledge after leaving primary school will experience increasing difficulties throughout their schooling. We then speak of children with recurrent school difficulties: among these pupils, some are diagnosed "dys" – dyslexics, dyscalculations, dystrophygraphics... – and must benefit from specific accompaniments, methods and adapted teaching tools used by trained teachers. Others incorporate effective mechanisms to make the school of the Republic fully inclusive: I am thinking in particular of the local units for school inclusion and the general and vocational education sections adapted from the colleges – ULIS and SEGPA. Minister, what measures will be taken or strengthened for the benefit of these students in difficulty at school, elementary school or college? And what developments do you recommend for the SEGPAs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u123	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u124	I thank you, Mr. Member, for this question, which makes it possible to address one of the most important topics for the coming year as follows: inclusive school. As you know, with the bill for a school of trust – which was preceded by the passage here of a bill as well as a collaborative work led by Sophie Cluzel from October to February – national education is changing its paradigm. I was able to talk about an inclusive school public service. This paradigm shift involves different measures. The first is to consolidate the status of the accompanying persons. As you know, our goal is to offer them three-year contracts, renewable once, which can lead to a CDI, and full time to earn more than they have today. This important development is accompanied by qualitative progress in that we want these personnel to be the subject of real human resources management, assured within the rectorates, and to be considered as full members of national education. This will involve very concrete measures such as the allocation of a national education e-mail address. On the other hand, we want to anticipate their recruitment much better, which will allow us to make progress which we all wish, such as the organization of a meeting between parents and accompanying persons and the follow-up by them of a training of sixty hours before the beginning of the school year. This qualitative improvement will ultimately be for the benefit of the student. In addition, students will be managed from the PIALs – the localized inclusive support hubs – with quantitative and qualitative approaches. These PIALs will allow for a closer analysis of the needs of the pupils, thus better assigning the accompanying pupils to the pupils and for the development of a policy of continuing training that is truly adapted to the individual's disability. Indeed, the recruitment of accompanying persons is not the alpha and omega of our action: we must also work on teacher training in order to have an approach adapted to all types of disabilities. Finally, I know that you are, like me, very attached to the SEGPA, which are very important. Our policy is not to weaken them, but to consolidate them in the colleges of France today.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u125	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u126	Tonight, before joining the Chamber, I was involved in a major debate on culture. One of the three themes addressed was artistic and cultural education. The President of the Republic is committed to ensuring that 100 per cent of children enjoy a coherent and demanding cultural path during their schooling, which is essential for their intellectual and sensory training, but also crucial to enable them to be self-sufficient in their cultural choices. Last September, you and the Minister of Culture presented a joint action plan to enable all children to benefit from a quality artistic and cultural education course. The objective of this plan is to provide this education, in the full sense of the term, to the different ages and times of life of the child. To achieve these goals, and without excluding the other arts, you have set three priorities: musical practice, reading and theatre. The plan you have presented contains all the artistic and cultural activities that will be carried out by the teachers, in collaboration with the artists and local authorities: attendance at cultural establishments at primary school, teaching of eloquence at the college, research and creation workshops at the high school... This plan will come into effect in September 2019. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In the meantime, and beyond the increase in the budget for artistic and cultural education, I would like to know how this subject has been integrated into other teachings since 2017. I would also like to understand how interdisciplinarity promotes and promotes this artistic and cultural education, and how your services, central or decentralized, have worked with the Ministry of Culture and local communities to prepare for a successful start in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u127	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u128	Artistic, cultural and sensory education – I like to add this goal because national education must also integrate the challenge of taste – is always, as you have pointed out, a high priority. We said it with Françoise Nyssen; We confirm and amplify this movement with Franck Riester. I will start with what you have finished: the key to success is the good and close collaboration between the Ministries of Culture and National Education, and at the local level between the Regional Directorates of Cultural Affairs – DRAC – and the Rectorates, in order to make artistic and cultural education a reality. Cultural institutions, whether they belong to local authorities or to the State, must be at the service of this cultural policy. As we have already said a lot, artistic and cultural education must start resolutely at kindergarten and then continue on this initial momentum. This is first and foremost through thematic sectoral policies. You recalled our priorities: it is true that we have placed a great deal of emphasis on music, reading and theatre. As you said, it does not exclude the rest, far from it. I am thinking in particular of cinema, and I would like to point out to you that the first Caesar of high school students was awarded a few days ago – it is a new custom that we want to launch. More generally, with Franck Riester, we started to set up a cinema club in every college and high school in France: in a partnership with France Télévisions, each of these establishments now has about 50 free-of-right films and educational tools to comment on them. We want the renaissance of these movie clubs. Time is short to describe the extent of our actions in each field, but I stress that artistic and cultural education is the subject of a very concrete and focused policy for each form of art. This policy must be directed particularly towards vocational education. It has been said earlier how much general education and culture should be present in vocational schools – you are very attached to it, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that everyone can act in this direction by promoting the link between cultural institutions and vocational schools. Finally, teacher training must undoubtedly integrate artistic and cultural education so that it becomes a reflex in the school of trust. It should also be remembered that the reform of the high school allows the development of the special education "art", which is now more implanted in high schools than it was before.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u129	It takes means for artists to accompany teachers, not all teachers can be artists!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u130	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u131	Last month, we were discussing in this House the bill for a school of trust. Most of us were looking forward to this text, even benevolently, as our schools and their students suffer from a national education lauded by your predecessor. But what a disappointment! Among the ejected subjects, there is obviously insecurity in the school environment. Let me get back to it. In 2017, 442 incidents of school violence were reported. As you know, teachers are not spared, as we were reminded of "the incident," in quotation marks, from Créteil last October. Since then, the testimonies have spilled into the press as well as on social networks. Moreover, according to the OECD, France ranks sixty-first out of sixty-five for calm in the classroom. There's something to worry about! A few weeks ago, the President of the Île-de-France region denounced the attack on as many as eighty high schools in her region last December. These attacks, carried out by camouflaged, organized and extremely violent gangs, consisted of burning garbage cans, cars or high schools. Teachers have even been sprayed with gasoline. Recall that in Béziers last month, a teacher was beaten by the parents of a student who did not accept the punishment imposed on their child. Not a week without the local press echoing various more or less serious facts! The hashtag # pasdevague has clearly pointed to the malaise that prevails in some of our establishments. Already at the time, teachers did not hide their dissatisfaction or even their anger at feeling abandoned by national education. Minister, when do you intend to act? Will the report and the plan against school violence, which we have been waiting for months now and which are still being postponed, finally come into being? Will never-ending arbitration within your majority finally give way to concrete actions? It is the future of our children and of France that is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u132	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u133	The subject of security cannot, of course, be underestimated. At school and everywhere else, safety is the necessary condition for the proper exercise of all other rights. As I always point out, ensuring safety means ensuring the protection of the weakest. Security is therefore the progressive subject par excellence, to the extent that it allows the exercise of all rights. Of course, I attach great importance to this. It would be unfair and wrong to describe what we have done since the last school year as inaction. I would remind you that we have planned to act in two stages: a time to take action on what is happening at school, college and high school, and a time to take action on what is happening around the school. Measures in the first category have been taken. In particular, I would like to mention the systematic reporting, which is now a reality: any professor in France can report any incident on a notebook, in paper or digital format, and can follow up on what is being done to respond to it. In November, we took the necessary regulatory measures, in particular to ensure that the disciplinary councils are truly held and that the scale of sanctions is adjusted, always with an educational aim, so that the nature of the sanction is more directly related to the act committed. As for the actions that we will take on what is happening around the establishment, we say from the beginning that they will be intended to apply to the coming year. So we didn't get late. On the other hand, I confirm to you that we are going into this. A report was requested; He's now on the table. The various ministers concerned will discuss this tomorrow, in part D of the Council of Ministers, with a view to reaching decisions which will concern the security of the surroundings of the institutions, the empowerment of families and the creation of specific structures for the poly-excluded. On these three issues, we want to move forward. I can assure you that at the start of 2019 there will also be concrete answers about what is happening around the school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u134	We have completed the questions on the Government's education policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u135	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u136	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u137	The next item is the debate on the judicialization and criminalization of militant action. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. I would remind you that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. I ask you to respect this speaking time. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u138	To begin with, I had a question for the deputies of the Republic on the move, but they shine by their absence: where were you this weekend? What happened to you? Have you forgotten the Republic, of which you speak a lot when your parliamentary permanences are degraded? One of our group's deputies was battled by the police as he was leaving a peaceful demonstration. No message of solidarity came from the parliamentary majority. Worse, the chair of the Law Committee and a member of the majority suggested that it was well done for him. Some even laughed at it a few hours ago in our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u139	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u140	Your attitude is anti-Republican. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] MP Yaël Braun-Pivet commented in these terms on the aggression of our fellow Member: "When Loïc Prud'homme manifests, he has no particular immunity, so he does not have to have special treatment in relation to another citizen". We thought that the Republic on the move had a problem with the principle of equality. Naïve, we had not thought that equality was settled, for this Bonapartist party, with batons and tear gas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u141	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u142	Should we remind you that these poorly placed lessons of equality come from the deputy who buried the commission of inquiry on Alexandre Benalla? He does not even come to the idea that no citizen should be assaulted for no reason. Perhaps she thinks of defending in the same movement the Benalla de la Contrescarpe and the Castaner de Bordeaux. The role of the Minister of the Interior in this story deserves to be clarified. The prefect, under his authority, distinguished himself by an absolute non-respect of the freedom to demonstrate. He went so far as to say that Loïc Prud'homme did not have to be in protest. This afternoon, the minister called Loïc Prud'homme a liar and a provocateur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u143	It's a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u144	The impudence of the minister was applauded by many colleagues in the majority. Republican solidarity is in a pitiful state. We, who have never missed the meeting when it was necessary to support attacked colleagues, are appalled by the attitude of the parliamentary majority. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I want to make it clear to Mr Castaner: if his pleasure now is to get us hit by officials, whose role is not, let him come himself! Let him pick us up!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u145	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u146	To hide behind the police and the justice system in order to achieve despicable political ends bears a name: they are mafia practices. We are outraged by the authoritarian features of power in place. Environmental activists, grassroots activists, high school students, journalists, whistleblowers, opposition politicians can all fear that state resources will be used against them. But your authoritarian figure appears in full daylight. Everyone understands this in view of the record of the unprecedented repression inflicted on citizens standing in yellow vests: 2000 wounded, 18 storks and 5 hands torn, but also 8,000 police officers, 1796 convictions and 316 detention warrants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u147	And it's not over.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u148	For Bayer-Monsanto and his criminal action, for Benalla's Russian contracts, for tax fraudsters, we can always wait for searches and legal proceedings. For you, the dangerous are those who do not agree with you, those who demand tax justice and democracy, those who propose a political alternative. The wrongdoers are the ones who fight a nuclear trash. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] [[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] Madam Keeper of the Seals, you were responding a few days ago to my intervention on authoritarianism that "everything that is excessive is insignificant". This is the quote of the accomplished bourgeoisie, that of a character who, to be not excessive, was nevertheless insignificant. Invoking Talleyrand, the biggest jacket flipper in our history, to say a democrat, is perhaps an unprecedented feat in the oratory history of this House. We want to tell you this solemnly today: we will never let ourselves be intimidated. We will remain on the side of the popular people that you despise so much and that you want to send home with truncheons or prolonged police custody. We will bear the ideals of human brotherhood and solidarity without ever failing. We will defend a viable future, at a time when you should be busy saving the human species rather than engaging in low-level political maneuvers. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – MM. Jean-Paul Lecoq and Jean-Michel Clément applaud]] You are thinking of putting an end to the unsuspecting energy that drives France for a long time and has taken a central place there since the Great Revolution. You're wrong. You can support a congressman's baton, you can't get away with us. A tip to finish: don't get tired of trying.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u149	Our colleague over there said it was going to be a long time, when you were talking. That's not nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u150	But it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u151	You can do something other than a congressman, if you're bored!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u152	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u153	I had a very well-written speech, which listed broken faces, broken lives and blocked protests in recent months. He stressed how militant and trade union action has been damaged in recent years, particularly with the reform of the labour law. And finally I thought to myself – it was my friend Ruffin who gave me the idea – that in this world of bullies, maybe some poetry was needed. I wanted to reread in the Chamber Prévert's poem that François Ruffin has revisited and that I find of great relevance for the debate that is about to take place. It's called: Don't laugh with these people. "Comrades, You've forgotten too easy. And your anger is falling fast You're alive... you like to laugh. The bourgeois says he likes to laugh Then you laugh with him. Yet his laughter is not the same as yours. It's not a real laugh. Man laughs The friggin' bourgeois Listen. In 1871, the locals fell by thousands. Mr Thiers was smiling The women of the world smiled They were getting a pint of blood. During the famous glorious last penultimate great war President Poincaré laughed in the cemeteries Oh! not with shrapnel naturally A Little Discreet Laughter A little gluttony A laughing man of the world A happy laughter from beyond Since February many workers have been killed in France and President Doumergue hasn't stopped smiling It's a habit... a tick... So sometimes, sometimes, debunking smiles... Tardieu smiles... Hitler too... It's the smile of capital. the smile of the bourgeoisie It's the laughter of the cow that laughs. A kind laugh... a ruthless smile. Excuse me, I'm sorry, in the background, I like you. And if I give orders to shoot you like dogs It's because it's the custom, I'm here for it, I'm not responsible for it... It's the custom. There are too many workers in the world We have to ship them to the other one. too many workers, too much coffee, [...] too many strawberries from the woods, Too many teachers... At the sea the coffee In the dressing room the sugar cane By draining butter At the toilets the early [...] » [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Don't laugh with these people. By the times that run, after the humiliation of the roundabouts dismantled every day as they rebuild themselves, and while France of the forgotten has tried to regain legibility, respect and dignity, a little poetry in this world of bullies will be able to enlighten the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u154	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u155	[["That's the case! »on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] The title of this debate asks me: to associate judicialization and criminalization with militant action deserves clarification before starting the reflection. In my view, militant action must never be associated with any legal action, let alone criminalization. This would mean that a fundamental public freedom such as the right to manifest would automatically be altered. Personally, I've always been active. I defended the right of students to university, a few years ago, as part of a student union. Later, I joined a union of employees and participated in numerous demonstrations. As a lawyer, I continued to be unionized and protested, especially whenever individual freedoms were at stake. I have defended my beliefs in associations fighting for human rights and, still today, for the reception of migrants or support for juvenile delinquents. Then I had a more political commitment to weigh on our country's destiny. I have also been confronted for more than thirty years, in my profession, with the enforcement of the law and with the defence of those who no longer have a voice. Judicialization? The word questions me. Criminalization? I'm worried about the word. These terms are clearly irrelevant to the extent that never an activist can be charged with a crime when acting within the militant framework, except that he commits a crime, detachable from any militant action: then only it would be possible to speak of criminalization. Be careful, in a debate like this, not to exacerbate political feelings, emotions or struggles which, on the way, would project us into a discussion without nuance, of which nothing useful for our society would come out. After this semantic development, recognize also that in the face of despair, disillusionment and the loss of any prospect of the future, militant action has led to the judicialization of certain acts. But in such circumstances, we must be able to invoke mitigating circumstances. It must be noted that the texts recently submitted to our Assembly reveal an atmosphere, an atmosphere that encourages the Government to assume that every activist or protestor presents a risk of committing wrongdoing when he or she manifests. Beware of the reign of suspicion that all militants would be suspects! For there to be a crime, there must still be a meeting of two elements: an intentional element and a material element. We tend to forget this fundamental principle of our criminal law, just as we violate the freedom to demonstrate, which is enshrined in our fundamental freedoms. Let us also remember the debate on the crime of solidarity. How can a person who helps another person, whom he or she considers to be in danger, find himself or herself before the courts or be trained in a judicial procedure that will inevitably be experienced as very violent? While the absence of intervention is criminally reprehensible, we would be able, through political drift, to regard intervention as equally reprehensible. What then? Choosing his offence? Here we reach the height of political absurdity, guided by political interests, to the detriment of the universal values that we have been able to defend at other times. I do not point here to the responsibility of such or such in this mechanics of absurdity. I would simply point out that, in order to resolve issues of individual freedoms in our country too quickly, we are taking the risk of leading it to a system that threatens them. Yes, wanting to incriminate with precision all the behaviors of the French is unhealthy. Yes, it is dangerous to leave room for arbitrariness or political afterthoughts in the regulation of demonstrations, in the grounds for arrest and in the advisability of prosecutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u156	And in the batons!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u157	Yes, it is dangerous to use force, justice, to resolve issues of education and democratic debate. As evidence of this, I would like to ask some unfounded questions in recent demonstrations, because there is no concrete element, no evidence to justify them. We must be extremely vigilant in the preservation of individual freedoms, the freedom to demonstrate of which is not the least. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, FI and GDR groups]] Judicarising or, worse still, criminalizing militant action would open the doors wide to laws of circumstance that, in the hands of certain majorities, might prove dangerous. The example of Hungary, which amended its Constitution in 2011 to include several measures of freedom and anti-migrants, is a reminder of this, despite the obligation of the Member States to respect the rule of law, the fundamental value of the European Union enshrined in the European Treaties and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. A country full of human and citizen's rights if such a drift was observed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u158	Mr Jean-Michel Mis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u159	Since 17 November last, on the sidelines of demonstrations taking place throughout the national territory, public order has been threatened. Breakers slip into the processions, endanger peaceful demonstrators, loot shops, destroy urban furniture, degrade monuments of the Republic and attack our security forces – police, gendarmes and even firefighters. In my constituency in Saint-Etienne, almost 1 million euros of damage was recorded in three months, not to mention the indirect losses faced by many traders. Many inhabitants, for fear of violence, desert the shops. As for the traders themselves, they most often have to barricade themselves at each demonstration. We must ask ourselves about this violence, which our fellow citizens are witnessing, helpless. How could we still ignore the profound and lasting transformation of the conditions under which some people think they can exercise their freedom to demonstrate at the expense of others? Let us not deceive ourselves, ladies and gentlemen: the Government, like our majority, acts with the sole aim of ensuring respect for the freedom to demonstrate...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u160	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u161	... a fundamental freedom guaranteed by Article 10 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights and Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. These articles specify that the right to demonstrate may be exercised only on condition that it does not contravene public safety and order. It is this freedom that we defend and protect today, and without weakening.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u162	That's not true! You're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u163	As the Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior reminded Parliament, we must provide a renovated framework so that our citizens can exercise the essential freedom that is the right to demonstrate safely, knowing that public order is preserved and that the internal security forces have the necessary legal tools to protect them, to protect themselves and to provide justice to the troublemakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u164	This is called framed freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u165	That is why it is our duty to accurately recall the outline and the objective of the texts that we defend with conviction in the interests of all our fellow citizens. Never before has there ever been any question of judicializing or criminalizing militant action. So many rights, so many advances in our society are the result of the fight of committed activists! Our only objective – it is about the safety of our fellow citizens and therefore their freedom – is to sanction outbursts that are contrary to public order during demonstrations, to punish breakers and not militant action. Our sole objective is to bring about the necessary reconciliation between respect for freedoms and the maintenance of public order, without which the exercise of freedoms cannot be guaranteed. This is precisely what the Constitutional Council stated in its decision of 25 January 1985 on the Law on the State of Emergency in New Caledonia: "Considering that, under article 34 of the Constitution, the law lays down the rules concerning the fundamental guarantees granted to citizens for the exercise of public freedoms,... it is for the legislator to reconcile the necessary respect for freedoms and the safeguarding of public order without which the exercise of freedoms cannot be ensured. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u166	You have to tell Cohn-Bendit, you almost made it your top of the list!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u167	Every political leader, every republican, every protector of freedoms must therefore ensure that the forces of law and order are given operational means in order to ensure the security of citizens during demonstrations; to guarantee the protection of citizens, journalists – guarantors of our freedom of information, who have been attacked – of traders and law enforcement personnel themselves. Every political leader, every republican, every protector of freedoms has a duty to state loudly that no tolerance should be accepted for violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u168	This is the beginning of dictatorships!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u169	That's how we're battling MPs!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u170	It is in this spirit that on 11 December, at the initiative of Jean-Luc Mélenchon, president of the group La France insoumée, our assembly took action to set up a commission to investigate the fight against extreme right-wing groups in France. It is in this same spirit that we have passed the bill to strengthen and ensure the maintenance of public order during demonstrations. It is always in this same spirit of balance of our freedoms that the Members of the Group of the European People's Party have wished to make changes to this text. We have in fact framed certain provisions, supplemented them to ensure the operational effectiveness of the measures, while preserving the fundamental right of freedom to demonstrate. We have thus rewritten Article 1 by deleting the system of systematic searches and identity checks at the entrances of demonstrations. This measure, which was not fully operational, required a significant mobilization of law enforcement forces at the entrance to demonstrations, when effective law enforcement required dynamic and targeted action. Instead, we have adopted a system that allows, upon the request of the public prosecutor, the law enforcement agencies to target and search people and vehicles,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u171	And pick up the scooters!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u172	Mr. Lecoq!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u173	... when it seems necessary to them, in order to search for weapons or objects that can be used as a weapon. We have thus adopted a provision allowing the prefect, in advance of the demonstrations, to prohibit certain people from protesting. Each decision taken by the prefect must be reasoned, proportionate and may be appealed to the judge for interim measures, who guarantees freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u174	Boniment!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u175	Thus, only these ultra-violent individuals, who are not activists but prevent activists from protesting, will be prohibited from disturbing public order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u176	Thank you for closing, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u177	[[Caroline Abadie applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, words have a meaning: let us not make mistakes in fighting!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u178	Our fight is freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u179	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u180	Paris, Bordeaux, Toulouse, Clermont-Ferrand and so many others: the cities of our country have had to suffer the destructive excesses of an active minority of breakers. Each time, it is the dismay for our fellow citizens who discover their city made unrecognizable by the passage of this devastating flood. Broken windows, vandalized shops, burned banks, ravaged bus stops, spilled trash that has been set on fire, insulting and threatening tags, it is the chaos that has been coming into public space for many months. Above all, it is public property, financed by the taxes of everyone, for the benefit of all citizens, which is thus destroyed. On Saturday afternoons, many French people are deprived of the freedom to stroll in their city, forced to stay at home in order not to take the risk of being confronted with the scenes of urban guerrillas that are inflicted on us by some revolutionaries supposedly in love with freedom. We all lose there, for the first time by being deprived of the possibility of moving in complete serenity within the public space on the days of mobilization, a second time by losing the enjoyment of urban furniture and a third time by having to finance the repairs by our taxes. What about those traders who had to put the key under the door, suffering the drop in sales caused by the blockages and Saturdays without a customer? What about these owners of small businesses, who have seen the work sometimes of a lifetime, the pride of decades of vandalized labor, looted, because their window was on the route of these processions of breakers?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u181	Cortege of breakers? A little respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u182	These drifts serve deeply the militant action of protesters who defend a cause. The consequences of these acts run counter to the convictions thus defended. The loss of jobs in trade is the opposite of the defence of workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u183	The increase in purchasing power is good for business!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u184	The deterioration of public space is contradictory with attachment to the collective. Destruction is the opposite of the logic of environmental protection. Moreover, these acts render inaudible the causes defended by the demonstrators. Who is able to say what the Clermont protesters of the last weekend of February were defending? Not only do the violence overshadow the substantive subjects because of the shock they cause in the opinion, but the latter becomes hostile to those whom it considers responsible for the disorder so aroused. It is for all these reasons that a law to prevent and punish violence during demonstrations is particularly necessary. Yes, the Senate majority was right to offer this bill to public debate: far from flouting the right to protest, it protects it! This text does not affect public freedoms. Its provisions are highly framed and confined to the prevention of violence. There is no infringement of freedoms...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u185	Oh, yes! All summonses to court for people who have broken nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u186	Mr. Lecoq, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u187	Madam President, there is one fundamental thing to defend tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u188	... but rather the defence and reaffirmation of these, such as the freedom to move safely in our cities on weekends, the freedom to work, the freedom to audible by the general public the cause that brought us down into the streets, the freedom to enjoy the public spaces and furniture financed by the community and, ultimately, by all of us! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To oppose such a bill would be to oppose the guarantees it offers and therefore to oppose those freedoms. It is to irresponsibly support these abuses and abuses that are destroying a country committed to its collective art of living and its republican pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u189	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u190	"Let every law be clear, uniform and precise: to interpret it is almost always to corrupt it," said Voltaire. I think we are there, in an attempt to corrupt the words and meaning that we want to lend them. Ladies and gentlemen of France, why did you choose to associate those words that have a specific meaning, including legal one, to imply and to suggest that it is militant action that is judicious and criminalized? That's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u191	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u192	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u193	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] This word "criminalizing" in the legal sense means turning a crime into a crime. What example of a criminal activist can you give us? Perhaps you consider a person like Carlos to be an activist?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u194	Anything! It's delusional!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u195	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u196	Taking hostages, attacks: these acts, do you not consider them criminals?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u197	We take the floor here to say sensible things!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u198	Only Mrs El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u199	Let us not be sectarian and look on the other side: are not the people who shed the blood of Clement Méric on 5 June 2013 also militants of a vision of hatred, criminals? I therefore reject the idea that there is a form of "criminalization of militant action" in France, but there are many activists who commit criminal acts. The term "judicialization" refers to much more varied situations. Again, the title of the debate is misleading: it is not activism itself that is pursued, but the forms it can take when it exceeds legal frameworks and violates other rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u200	And when are the bad bosses chasing them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u201	You don't know anything about it. You're talking in a vacuum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u202	According to article 4 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights, freedom is the right to do anything that does not harm others. Activism must conform to this founding principle of our life in society.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u203	cocktail activism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Everyone listens respectfully to the speaker who speaks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u205	Finally, Madam President! Carlos!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u206	And yet some militant acts violate the freedoms of others. The example of the arson of criminal origin, which destroyed a slaughterhouse in Ain on the night of 27-28 September, was claimed on an alternative website, the authors of the text wishing to "place anti-specism in a perspective of permanent conflict. Is that not activism? Isn't that an unacceptable damage to property? The list of such acts considered militant and reprehensible is long. Freedom of expression, opinion and demonstration are constitutional freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u207	Untouchable! Irrefragable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u208	Private property, freedom to come and go, security are also constitutional freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u209	It's not good enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u210	All at stake is to ensure the balance between these various freedoms and it is this Article 4 which sets the limits for this, very clear limits, by stipulating that the exercise of natural rights has no limits but those which assure the other members of society the enjoyment of the same rights. The State is under an obligation to ensure public order, including the notions of public safety and tranquillity. What you call the "judicialization of militant action" is simply the implementation of this objective of constitutional value. I wish in the time remaining to convey to you the pride that I felt this morning in meeting the men and women of the gendarmerie brigade of La Chapelle-sur-Erdre in the Loire-Atlantique, on the territory of my constituency, during their annual inspection. These men and women were mobilized to ensure the evacuation of Notre-Dame-des-Landes. You can talk to them about militant action, they also experienced criminal acts: people threw anti-hail rockets on a helicopter, set fire to armoured gendarmerie vehicles using molotov cocktails, not to mention the privatization, for militant purposes, of departmental roads in the area for several months.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u211	[[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] What about the privatization of highways, for racketeering purposes?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u212	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and the LaREM group]] Activism does not give all rights! We are fortunate to have the means to express ourselves without falling into illegality. Allow me to thank at this rostrum those guards of the civil peace, those soldiers of the law without whom the freedom of some would crush the freedom of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u213	Thank you for your support to our distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u214	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u215	In the preamble, I would like to pay tribute to the prison staff, particularly those in Condé-sur-Sarthe, as well as to the RAID officers who intervened today, and to wish the two injured guards a speedy recovery. This evening's debate focuses on the judicialization and criminalization of militant action. In order not to be mistaken for debate, it is important to say that the very definitions of the term "activist" may differ greatly from one source to another. On the one hand, we have a rather pacifist vision, which describes the activist as a member of a political, trade union, social organization that actively participates in the life of this organization: a passionate in the noblest sense of the term. On the other hand, we find more belligerent definitions where the activist would be someone who actively fights in ideological struggles. These two resonances show the ambivalence of militant action.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u216	That goes hand in hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u217	Activism in itself, in the sense of this dedicated investment, must in no way be punished, because the right to campaign, the right to manifest, is a fundamental right. It is also guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in article 20: "Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association. » The right to demonstrate is intrinsically linked to freedom of expression and opinion. However, it must respect the laws of the Republic. He has to respect people. He has a duty to respect property. When this heightened activism undermines the physical integrity of our fellow citizens, when demonstrators show violence against our law enforcement forces, who are there only to protect us and do their work, when they cause degradation, it must be punished. This must be judicialized or even criminalized if the facts are serious. It is necessary to protect property and persons under all circumstances. Our group supports the bill that was introduced to us a month ago, tabled in the Senate on the initiative of Bruno Retailleau, aimed at strengthening and ensuring the maintenance of public order during demonstrations, because it helps to combat violence during demonstrations. However, while we support the objective, measures still raise questions about their constitutionality or practical implementation. In my personal capacity, I abstained on this text for more than one reason, in particular because it provides that the prefect may prohibit a person from protesting throughout the territory for a month. Attention must be paid to the laws of circumstances that change a fundamental freedom to manifest. Let the administrative authority be able to impose this sanction, why not, but let us respect the separation of powers. For now, it's up to the judge to decide this kind of thing. Moreover, this text is too vague, its limits vague. It is a question of proportionality. We are not here to vote for unconstitutional laws. This text is interesting from the point of view of the protection of property, in particular the idea of the breaker-pays: when one sees the degradations that the last demonstrations have given rise to, it is rather a good thing. But it does not go far enough in protecting people, especially law enforcement. I regret that some of the amendments I proposed in this regard have been rejected. The rule of law and the maintenance of law and order mean that any overflow, regardless of the circumstances, must be contained, and that violent acts must be punished. This includes the protection of the freedom to demonstrate, since the right to assemble peacefully is now under threat because of the persistent and malicious actions of these violent groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u218	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u219	Today is a sad day for the Assembly. A minister of the interior, Christophe Castaner, who shines more by his absence tonight than by his qualities as a statesman, has fully assumed the baton of a parliamentarian, that is to say one of ours. A parliamentarian who has been abused by police forces, this is a rare event in the Fifth Republic. But what is new, what is shocking, is that a prefect immediately supports this attack on Twitter, without even taking the time to investigate. Without any precaution, a representative of the State thought it was right to create a saloon atmosphere. Today it is Christophe Castaner who, in turn, draws a series of arguments that would be scandalous in any democracy that respects itself. Our minister has forgotten that in democracy, he should be responsible to our assembly for the behaviour of the teams he leads. What is terrible is that a minister of the interior believes that it is up to him to say what a parliamentarian has the right to do or not to do, where he has the right to go or not to go, and what form his opposition may take. This behaviour is not that of a democratic leader: it is that of an authoritarian leader. Unfortunately it has become normal in France, since the state of emergency. This beating of a parliamentarian legitimized by the executive is a symptom. Violence and brutality against activists have become normal, commonplace. However, it was a time when the death of a protester, Malik Oussekine, followed by the mutilation of a single young man, snatched by a tense shot, caused the resignation of a minister and the withdrawal of his bill. If we were still in a democracy worthy of that name, Christophe Castaner should have resigned every day for sixteen weeks. Here is his report on yellow vests: 499 reports, 205 head injuries, 1 death, 22 people skewed, 5 hands torn. The Ministry of the Interior refers to 2100 wounded. No more than against Loïc Prud 'homme he had the slightest word of humanity towards these maimed for life. Worse, Emmanuel Macron argues, declaring last Tuesday that a protestor was guilty of the worst if the demonstration in which he participated degenerated. And his servants to applaud and perform his low works. Today is driven to the climax a repression of militant action that has destroyed the lives of many activists for many years. I would like to give you a few examples of activists who have been crushed for having dared to do their duty as union representatives. Gaël Quirante, a trade union activist from La Poste des Hauts-de-Seine, who is mobilizing for a quality postal service, has suffered ten attempts at dismissal in fourteen years. He must have wiped almost a year's layoff. His comrade Nordine was fractured by a La Poste executive in February. LAC interventions are no longer counted on to dislodge strikers. But in your system it's always Gael the culprit. He is the one who is prosecuted in court, he is the one who is dismissed despite the opposite opinion of the labour inspector. No doubt this has something to do with the absolute majority reached by his union in the last professional elections. Karim is a whistleblower.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u220	Not Carlos, Karim: it's more interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u221	This truck driver denounced the irregular management of waste by Arcelor, 2 kilometers from a town. But in your system, he is the culprit: he is the one who is prosecuted in court, he is the one who no longer finds employment, he is the one who the boss repression leads to burn-out, to hospitalisation in psychiatry, to send letters of threats. This increased repression of union activists, ecologists, students, yellow vests, young people in neighbourhoods have been subjected to it in silence for years. In essence, your authoritarian liberalism only revives this old tradition of 19th-century capitalism, which sees working classes as dangerous classes, racial discrimination being added to social discrimination. Adam and Fatih, two 17- and 19-year-olds, died in Grenoble as a result of a follow-up race with the BAC. They have died: the police operation is therefore a failure, because, whatever their harms, it will be agreed that the sanction is tragically disproportionate, the prosecution being severely regulated and limited by a directive. They died, like Adama, like Gaye, like Zyed and Bouna, like so many others. Again, what message of condolences have we heard? None. What kind of questioning does this entail about how the state acts in relation to neighbourhoods? Under the influence of governmental instructions formulated in the name of republican victory rather than republican equality, a whole population is criminalized in advance and any return to a pacified Republic is prohibited. In the end, in the world of Macron, those who raise their heads must remain silent – under the baton, under trial, under the fire of LBD, under pressure, behind bars or grounded by fines, with the blessing of the Government. In Macron's dream world, a good citizen is a high school student of Mantes-la-Jolie on his knees, with his hands on his head, Uber rather than a drug dealer, but above all not a protester. It's not France, it's not our Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Since you, the Minister of Justice, are here tonight instead of your colleague, who once again hides, go tell MM. Macron and Castaner that we will always fight this authoritarian and austere policy! We will definitely refuse to submit to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u222	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u223	My first words will go to Congressman Naegelen, whose words echo my thoughts about prison guards who were seriously injured as a result of the very cowardly terrorist attack that took place in Condé-sur-Sarthe prison. Thank you, Congressman. With regard to the debate that is before us this evening, I note, as Mr Jean-Michel Clément and Mrs Sarah El Haïry have done, the surprising terminological conjunction that you have chosen: speaking of the judicialization of militant action seems to me to be a reflection or a desire to insinuate that militant action should or could systematically be the subject of judicialization.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u224	I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u225	That is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u226	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u227	I leave you free of your opinion, but let me give you my opinion: this is not the case. This is not the case because militant action is infinitely respectable, as you have said, in particular you, Mr Jumel, when you said that France of the forgotten tried to regain legibility, respect and dignity. This, in fact, is infinitely respectable, must remain so and must be heard, as the Government seems to me to be doing through the organization of the great debate. In any case, even if we do not share everything, it remains infinitely respectable. What is not, on the other hand, and which cannot be, as several of your colleagues have said, is the overflows, the breakers whose actions undermine the militant freedom that both have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u228	Madam Minister, Loïc Prud'homme is not a breaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u229	Like other democracies, ours is confronted, on occasion or at the end of demonstrations, with overflows that cover several aspects. I am thinking, for example, of the 1st of May, in Paris...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u230	Place de la Contrescarpe?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u231	... where the black blocs attacked the law enforcement forces with violence that no one denied and ransacked shops and degraded urban furniture.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u232	Not to mention Benalla.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u233	These events led to some 15 convictions for various sentences in Paris. I don't see anything that's irregular. In recent months, too, as part of the yellow vest movement, many unacceptable overflows have taken place: I am thinking of the damage to the Arc de Triomphe, I am also thinking, in the province, of the fire of the prefecture of Puy-en-Velais or of the multiple degradations of public buildings, whether it be the Palais de Justice of Avignon, Le Havre or Perpignan, the prefecture of Carcassonne or the former Treasury of Narbonne. All these events are the result of breakers infiltrated in the midst of peaceful demonstrators. Beyond these "shock actions" against the symbols of the Republic, I wish, like Mrs Anthoine, to have a thought for all our fellow citizens affected day after day, weekend after weekend, by such overflows. I think, in particular, of the many traders in the city centres, whether they are Bordeaux, Toulouse or other cities, who have had to deal with real attacks. This radicalization of violent action is not linked to the movement of the yellow vests but precedes it, as we have seen with the zones to be defended, the ZADs, at Bure or at Notre-Dame-des-Landes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u234	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u235	I would also like to refer to another event, a fairly new phenomenon which seems to me to be not only a matter of militant action, but above it: I am thinking of the rise in power, in recent months, throughout the country, of violent actions against food professionals or specialized in the trade of animal products – Mrs El Haïry recalled. In 2018, several business breakdowns were identified in the Lille agglomeration, in the south of France, targeting butchers, charcutiers or restaurateurs, these actions sometimes accompanied by very aggressive threats and behaviour towards the professionals concerned. In September 2018, this was mentioned, arson at a slaughterhouse in the Ain caused 80 people to become technically unemployed. It seems to me that these are also serious financial damage, sometimes human, which is in no way acceptable. I would like to say again here with force: all these degradations, these events, are criminal offences that violate the freedom to undertake and the freedom to work and must necessarily be subject to appropriate criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u236	What about Loïc Prud'homme who shows?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u237	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] As you can see, we are faced with a real radicalisation on the part of some ultras activists whose modes of protest involve passages to the act of increasingly violent action...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u238	Please, Madam Minister, come in!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u239	[[Exclaims persist]] ...that I do not think it is possible to tolerate in any way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u240	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u241	In order to deal with this situation, judicial proceedings must ensure that such infringements are punished in accordance with the rule of law, with due regard for specific rules of law arising from treaty or constitutional texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u242	To participate in an unauthorized demonstration is not criminal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u243	Mr. Member, only the minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u244	I'd like to hear everything, but finally...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u245	I'm almost done, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u246	Loïc Prud'homme! Answer me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u247	As many of you have pointed out, the Constitution, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights, protect freedom of expression, a fundamental freedom that derives from the constitutional text. However, the Constitutional Council has also pointed out, by Mr Mis I believe, that this freedom of demonstration may be limited "when it has to be reconciled with the prevention of breaches of public order, in particular of attacks on the security of persons and property", which also meet objectives of constitutional value.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u248	[[Smile]] Alain Juppé will correct all this!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u249	Our current legal framework – I do not refer here to the European Convention on Human Rights – therefore makes it quite possible to sanction these abuses...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u250	So, whacking a congressman?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u251	... provided that sanctions are proportionate and adapted to their objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u252	You're drifting! Every day!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u253	This is in line with the criminal policy that I intend to pursue in this area. All the circulars I have circulated to the public prosecutor's offices have only one objective: to enable our citizens to express themselves freely and safely,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u254	You didn't get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u255	...to be able to express their opinions on the public square. On the other hand, it must also be possible to punish when it seems necessary all those who abuse this freedom by harming others.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u256	With proportionality?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u257	I believe that this case runs counter to the freedom to demonstrate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] In all this, Mrs Panot, there is nothing, nothing like mafia practices, contrary to what you have said. You cannot make such an assessment of an action in accordance with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u258	What about Mr. Prud'homme? You didn't answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u259	We come to the questions. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, for the Group of the European People's Party, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u260	My colleagues Mathilde Panot and Éric Coquerel have described the situation very well: everywhere in France where there have been mobilizations, the Government has carried out a terrible violent repression. To prove to you that it is not personal overflows that are involved but that orders have been given, I will tell you about a territory located 10000 kilometers from Paris. During the first weeks of mobilization of the yellow vests, La Réunion experienced a movement of a magnitude that we had not seen in several decades. This is a major historical and political fact for our island. Even today, the embers of the revolt are still hot. Why? Because of the state lies and orders of your government, which stir up anger. Following flashball shots, three Reunions lost their eyes – maimed for life and abandoned by the judiciary. An EHPAD – an accommodation facility for dependent elderly people – found itself in tear gas clouds. After that, not a word of apology. Nothing! In a trial, an accused could not show the court a film that could prove his innocence. You know very well that these are not conditions worthy of judgment. And I pass on to you the totally unjustified arrests, not to mention the words that are similar to death threats that were held in a police station in La Réunion. Last example: this Saturday, Carole, a yellow vest of the first few hours, was gassed in the face while she did not represent any danger. The attack was so violent that Carole collapsed on the bitumen and had to be transported to the hospital. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Madam Minister, when will you cease to strike, totocher and unjustly lock peaceful demonstrators? When will you change social and fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u261	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u262	I would like to recall what I said earlier, Mr Ratenon, on an important point: the demands of the people, of whatever part they come from, must be listened to. On the other hand, there are times when overflows can no longer be accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u263	You know there are peaceful protesters?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u264	I wish I could finish, Mr Coquerel! I want you to stop interrupting me every moment! When you speak, I listen to you with respect. I'm not asking you much, just to let me finish my sentences, it'll be fine already. These spillovers, Mr.Ratenon, sometimes place the forces of law and order in extremely difficult situations. If mistakes are made by them, you know that inspections can be carried out. As I speak to you, inspections are systematically carried out when demonstrators file complaints of violence allegedly committed by law enforcement officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u265	We refused to take complaints!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u266	There are rules of law and they apply to both demonstrators and law enforcement officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u267	And what's the status of the Toulouse boxer?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u268	That is what characterizes and really underpins our democracy. If complaints are filed, investigations are conducted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u269	What's up with the Toulon boxer policeman?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u270	Mr Sebastien Jumel, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u271	The story I'm about to tell has serious human consequences: that of a man dismissed for disciplinary reasons, in the context of a day of social mobilization, on the basis of facts that justice has classified without further action because it was unable to establish any offence. Despite this, despite the judicial demonstration of an absolutely empty case, this 53-year-old man, who has a total of 28 years of service and 22 years of union involvement, has not been reintegrated into the workforce of his company. The company in question is none other than SNCF. The SNCF that its public status, I was going to tell its story should protect against any temptation to settle social conflicts by punishment, intimidation, penalisation, by a form of repression that does not say its name! The case of Jean-Michel Dieudonné, a guide to the striped cargo of SNCF executives, illustrates this drift that we are trying to discuss tonight, without apparently succeeding. The choice made by the public company to dismiss its employee, whom it accuses for an ill-established incident, even contested – a rather lively debate with a colleague during a day of strike on July 27, 2018 at the Eastern Railway Station – has no recent precedent. This sanction, taken without even waiting for the result of the work of the justice system, which has since proceeded to a ranking without further action, normally applies only to agents who are subject to a heavy criminal penalty, for example following a robbery or murder. The President of the SNCF has been seized by many elected parliamentarians – Caroline Fiat is very committed to the case, and we are also mobilized – but did not respond. A petition has already gathered nearly a million signatures to ask for the sanction to be cancelled, but the president of SNCF is not responding. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] This situation, Minister, directly challenges the state, a shareholder of SNCF. We therefore ask you to intervene to redress what is akin to trade union discrimination, a judicialization of militant action as we conceive it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u272	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u273	Mr Jumel, indeed, this case has been echoed in the press and the mobilization of parliamentarians, including yourself. It is very difficult for me to answer a question concerning the penalties imposed by a company against an employee in disciplinary proceedings. I am probably not in the best position, as a seal keeper, to shed light on this case, which I do not know the exact details of, except for those that you and the press have reported. It seems to me that disciplinary matters are the responsibility of the company that issued such sanctions, and I imagine that the employee has initiated the procedures to challenge this decision. Nor am I certain, as you suggest, that it is up to the shareholder State to intervene in this type of case, even if I see that for the person concerned this may be an important expectation. I do not wish to go any further in my answer today. In any case, but perhaps you have already asked him, my colleague in charge of transport would be better able to answer the question you raised.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u274	She doesn't answer either...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u275	Mr Paul Molac, for the Libertés et territoires Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u276	Before I begin my remarks, I would like to make it clear that in no way can I condone violence, whatever its causes. And that applies to both activists and law enforcement. On 5 February, the Assembly adopted the so-called "anti-casseurs" law. There is no doubt that this was the Government's immediate response to public opinion following the weekly yellow vest demonstrations that we have been seeing since mid-November. Clearly, these laws of circumstances generally do not achieve the desired effects and, more serious, even lead to perverse aspects. Moreover, when we see that two people arrested on a Saturday at a toll in the Paris region were detained for 48 hours because they had a steering rod in the car, but no yellow vests – this is the only offence they were charged with – we think that the legal arsenal is far enough! Therefore, our concern today is very great with regard to measures to ban demonstrations, a right that is now constitutionally guaranteed. We are not far from the presumption of a crime. In addition, the existing law made it quite possible to challenge individuals engaged in the destruction of property or the injury of persons. Hundreds of arrests and convictions prove this. Finally, the use of flashball, or LBD, as a defence weapon by law enforcement forces is a cause for great concern. You are aware that the Council of Europe has requested an immediate suspension of its use. As Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights Dunja Mijatovic points out: "The primary task of law enforcement is to protect citizens and human rights". Of course, I condemn the violence against the police, but as a result of their actions, there are more than 200 15 protestors who were wounded in the head, having lost an eye. Five had their hands torn off, and one person died after receiving a tear gas grenade in the head while she was about to close her window. So we're worried. Can you tell us how you intend to guarantee the right to protest for all, and ensure the safety of the vast majority of demonstrators who do so peacefully?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u277	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u278	If I have understood your question correctly, it deals with two rather different points: firstly, the practical interest of the law adopted in the National Assembly on the freedom to demonstrate; On the other hand, the use of LBD-type weapons – defensive bullet launchers. On the first point, I have always thought, strictly in line with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, that freedom to manifest is a fundamental freedom that derives from constitutional texts that enshrine the freedom to go and come and the freedom to express one's opinion. It is important to remind him. As I said at the moment, this freedom can be mitigated because of the need to reconcile it with other constitutional requirements such as respect for property and people. It is therefore in this balance that we must always seek respect for the rule of law. In the current proposal for a law, the balance around Article 2 on administrative measures seems to me to be reached: criteria for the adoption of this administrative measure are laid down, and above all judicial review is opened, since 48 hours before the demonstration, the administrative judge can be referred to the court for a preliminary ruling. This double constraint, this double framework, makes me think that the balance is respected. On the use of LBDs, you mentioned several people or institutions, and you could still have cited the Defender of Rights. I would remind you, however, that this use was submitted to the Council of State, which made a very clear decision in which it did not consider that there was an illegality in the use of these weapons where there was a need and where they were used in an appropriate and proportionate manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u279	We come to two questions from the Republic Group on the move. Mr Patrice Anato has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u280	Freedom to demonstrate is one of the most important rights of our democracy. It is one of the foundations of what is founded as a Frenchman: the freedom to express discontent, the freedom to express what is right and what is not right in the society in which we live. Like all freedoms, however, it stops where others begin. I find it hard to believe that the endangerment of peaceful demonstrators, the looting of shops, the destruction of urban furniture, the ruining of our monuments, the attacks on our security forces and firefighters and the work of undermining our republican values are contributing to this precious right, which has once led to great social and political progress in our nation. Thus, the struggle against the breakers and all those who have made the breach of public order their master word is a necessity. In order to live the militant action dear to our republican history, it is therefore necessary to ensure the proper conditions for those who demonstrate peacefully. It is up to the legislator to bring about the necessary reconciliation between respect for freedoms and the safeguarding of public order, without which the exercise of freedoms cannot be ensured. We must be, before the people, guarantor that this fundamental conciliation is based on a just and unambiguous basis, and we must be able to respond to the concerns that have been expressed in recent days regarding what has been described as the judicialization and criminalization of militant action. Our demand and our collective rigour is that we do not tolerate the human and material balance that the excesses of the last demonstrations may have caused. Our will and our collective goal is to remain the protectors of republican freedoms, those of the rule of law and freedom of information, that of going and coming, and the security that every French citizen is entitled to expect on the territory of the Republic. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you remind us, within the French legislative and judicial arsenal, of the safeguards which guarantee the full freedom to demonstrate, but also those which aim to ensure its essential reconciliation with the security of all and the maintenance of public order?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u281	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u282	I agree with you, Mr President, that it is impossible for us to tolerate the heavy human and material balance caused by the spillovers of the last demonstrations. In this way, we must do everything possible to identify, challenge and refer perpetrators of violence or degradation to the courts. The safeguards you're asking me about exist. On the one hand, it is up to the judicial investigation services, under the supervision of the public prosecutor or, where appropriate, the investigating judge, to carry out all relevant investigations for this purpose. In fact, the repressive arsenal is very comprehensive, since various offences can be characterized according to the behaviour observed. I was able to recall them in a criminal policy circular last November. I quote them briefly: the crime of crowding;...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u283	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u284	...participation in a demonstration by carrying a weapon; participation in a grouping with a view to committing violence or degradation; the offence of obstructing road traffic; aggravated violence against persons who are the custodians of public authority, in assembly, with weapons; degradation; the carrying of prohibited weapons or incendiary devices; rebellion, contempt or refusal to comply, etc. As a first step, investigations are conducted under the supervision of the public prosecutor or the investigating judge. In a second stage, it will be up to the court to determine whether the charges which have been brought under the supervision of the public prosecutor or the investigating judge are sufficient to justify a conviction and the imposition of a sentence, or whether it is appropriate to grant relief in the event that the offence is not sufficiently serious. The safeguards do exist. Through our legislation and independent justice, we can punish unacceptable, criminal or criminal acts in accordance with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u285	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u286	The Constitutional Council, recalling that it is up to the legislator "to bring about the necessary conciliation between respect for freedoms and the safeguarding of public order without which the exercise of freedoms cannot be guaranteed", makes it clear that the maintenance of order is the sine qua non condition for the guarantee of individual freedoms, including that of demonstration. In recent years, there has been strong violence during demonstrations. This ever-increasing and intense violence, whether perpetrated by demonstrators or outsiders, prevents peaceful people from demonstrating. We all have in mind the black blocks of May 1st, the Arc de Triomphe ransacked, or the prefecture of Puy-en-Velay burned. While many demonstrations take place without overflowing, such as the march for the climate that brought together 25,000 people, or the march against violence against women, 30,000 people, the security of demonstrations remains a mission of the State, which it carries out in collaboration with the organizers. If this mode of expression of militant action is popular and normally peaceful, other modes of action exist. In Isère, barracks and gendarmes' personal vehicles as well as, recently, the premises of a radio station were set on fire, bringing to twelve the number of fires claimed in two years on anarchist websites. In our Lyon neighbours, the mayor uses safety standards to close the headquarters of an extreme right-wing group. Is this the symptom of militant action whose nature has evolved? If so, should the legislator imagine new tools or is our legal arsenal sufficient? Our colleagues in La France are concerned about the judicialization or criminalization of militant action. It seems to me that the only way to respond objectively is to ask whether, in constant acts, convictions are more frequent and sentences are heavier. In other words, is the supposed criminalization and fear by our colleagues due to the tightening of militant action or the increased repression by the legislators or the judges themselves?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u287	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u288	Reminder of the rules of procedure on the basis of Rule 58(1) on the holding of meetings. It's not enough to talk to each other, it's also important to understand each other. The minister has just referred to the crime of crowding. However, citizens of my constituency, in Saint-Romain, who had one day decided to protest, without hindering the movement or breaking anything, were summoned to the judge without understanding the reason. Now that you mention it, the crime of crowding seems to me to be the only plausible explanation. However, what exactly is this crime of crowding? How many people is it made up of? Isn't crowding the expression of freedom to demonstrate?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u289	Mr Lecoq, this is not a point of order. I cannot allow you to debate the substance of the matter outside of the interventions planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u290	The minister sends circulars to prosecutors, but we are not receiving them: we just want to understand what it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u291	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u292	Mr Lecoq, the circulars of the Ministry of Justice are all public. Mrs Abadie, it does seem to me that we are witnessing a worrying radicalisation, perhaps with new forms, of militant action in favour of certain causes. I am thinking of the ultraviolent actions of the black blocks on 1 May, the anti-specist demonstrations, the events that mark the end of the assemblies of the yellow vests. Protesters resort to violent methods of action, both with regard to people and property. They often act masked, which is new and often characterizes the crime of crowding, I should have specified.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u293	Please specify, it is not included in the circular. We can tell the prosecutors!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u294	Criminal policy must adapt to these new forms of violent action, which I have asked the prosecutors to give them instructions of vigilance and firmness against these acts, which undermine the free exercise of the right to demonstrate. Similar action is being taken by the Ministry of the Interior. The law enforcement agencies face the most violent breakers directly, and I would like, in this difficult context, to commend their professionalism and sense of duty. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Freedom to manifest is a precious asset. We must adapt to preserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u295	We come to two questions from the Republican Group. Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u296	[[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] Allow me first of all to pay tribute to the two prison guards in Condé-sur-Sarthe seriously injured today, but also to the RAID police officers. I invite all my colleagues to become aware of the seriousness of the situation in our prisons, which the radicalisation of prisoners turns into real pedriae.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u297	We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u298	When I want to watch a game, I am systematically searched at the entrance to the stadium. On the other hand, in order not to hit the European Court of Human Rights, systematic search of visitors is impossible at the entrance of prisons! You can insert knives with ceramic blades undetectable by the portals and quietly stab the overseers! My question concerns the law passed here on 5 February to ensure the maintenance of public order. The Senate should adopt it identically, which will not allow us to debate it again. This is not a law of circumstances, since it was introduced in June in the Senate by Mr.Retailleau. His article 2, widely criticized, remains the spine. However, the chairman of the Senate Law Commission recalled the unconstitutionality of this section. Following the dramatic events of 1 May and last December, I interviewed the Minister of the Interior several times during the question-and-answer sessions of the Government, as it becomes imperative to remove from these rallies the breakers that harm peaceful demonstrators. Minister, do you have a plan B, in case the Constitutional Council censors Article 2?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u299	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u300	I have no plan B, honourable Member, because I never prejudge the decision of the Constitutional Council. I respect it and read it carefully before building an alternative, if necessary. Until the drafting of this text, we acted on the requisition of prosecutors to allow the prefects, before the demonstration, in specific frameworks, to take certain measures. The legislator wanted to reinforce the types of responses available. Since you refer to section 2, it should be recalled that criteria precede the enactment of the administrative measure and the supervision of the judge. Balance and proportionality therefore seem to me to be respected. Let us wait for the decision that the Constitutional Council will make in its wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u301	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u302	If the judicialization and criminalization of militant action are on the agenda, it is to respond to an event of circumstance, the so-called crisis of yellow vests. Alas, the French are seized of a single anxious question of anticipation: will there be next Saturday an umpteenth act of yellow vests? This question which the French ask themselves is revealing not because of the manifestation of the yellow vests, no one has the idea of questioning the freedom to demonstrate, but because of the serious and more than repeated disturbances to public order, the unacceptable degradations suffered and which affect all our compatriots. This question is also indicative of the anxiety and a stalemate of our compatriots in the face of the State's inability to bring order and peace to the streets of our territory. [[Applause Mr Eric Diard applauds]] The anti-casseurs law, in its original version, was supposed to apply to manage and control excesses during demonstrations. Unfortunately, it has been distorted. In the name of national cohesion, on behalf of all the wounded, on the side of the demonstrators as well as that of the police or the ordinary passers-by, on behalf of all the traders and business owners who have suffered the deterioration of their businesses, the drop in their turnover and the loss of income, I ask you to specify what measures you intend to take to ease the social tension that has been in the country for almost four months, particularly as a result of the breakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u303	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u304	We are both overwhelmed, terrified and concerned about the events that happen on Saturdays in many cities. The Government intends to act in several ways. First of all, it met the protesters' initial expectations by means of purchasing power measures that are not negligible, which everyone recognizes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u305	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u306	All right? That's not what the protesters say!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u307	You have probably read, ardent readers of the economic press, the latest issue of Economic Alternatives, which attests to an increase in purchasing power between the second and nineteenth twentyiles thanks to the 2018-2019 budget, voted by this Government. That's one of the elements of the answer, but I don't think that's what you were waiting for, Mr. Vatin. You also asked me how to prevent the violence that gangrene every end of protest from repeating itself Saturday after Saturday. The Government's choice to respond first to this crisis by promoting purchasing power and organizing public debate has led to a decrease in the number of demonstrators. This was last Saturday, and I think the trend should continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u308	We'll see on the 16th.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u309	For the rest, the vigilance of the judiciary, the circulars that I have addressed to all prosecutors, recalling the offences and the penalties connected with them, the presence of the law enforcement agencies throughout these multiple weeks, which is a guarantee for all citizens, are all answers that will help to mitigate or even end this violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u310	Mrs Sarah El Haïry, for the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u311	No form of violence has its place in our country; No form of violence can coerce democracy. That is why it is imperative to be intransigent with the instigators of such acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u312	What about social violence?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u313	In order to remedy the breaches of the rules of the Republic and to guarantee the right to demonstrate, we adopted a bill on first reading in this Chamber, a few days ago, from someone who is well aware of the situation that I am going to describe to you, since it is the senator of Vendée, neighbour of Nantes and former president of the Pays de la Loire region, Bruno Retailleau. Indeed, it has become customary in my territory for anti-fascist, radical and ultra-fascist groups to spread the disorder during demonstrations in Nantes. We don't know a demonstration without a break. Let us remember the protests against the Labour Law in 2016, during which the deterioration of public goods was numerous and weighed heavily on the finances of the communities. In Nantes, overflows now go hand in hand with demonstrations. The illustration was given during the sad weekend of February 2014, with the big demonstration organized against the airport of Notre-Dame-des-Landes: the violence reached its peak, with the convergence of the Zadists and of radical and ultra-known individuals locally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u314	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u315	This brutality was not born with the movement of the yellow vests. It has existed for many years in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u316	Since the French Revolution, and even before!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u317	These actions are orchestrated and relayed by militants who are still camouflaged and dressed in black in the processions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u318	[[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] That's the BAC!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u319	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ... who do not refuse to broadcast violent images and comments on social media that encourage breakage. [[Caroline Abadie applauds]] Minister, the seniority of violence in demonstrations shows that there are enkysted groups in Nantes, as in other French cities. Do you know any of the same phenomena? What mechanisms have been put in place by the current government or previous governments to combat these breakers? Are we still in an intelligence phase or are we going to be able to stop these behaviors?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u320	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u321	Madam Member, we have seen the evolution of radical militants' methods of action during demonstrations, with "punching" actions that require us to rethink the framework for judicial action. As I have had the opportunity to say before, the judicial authority must be very responsive and firm, as well as have a capacity for anticipation, in liaison with the intelligence services. In the preparation phase of the demonstration-related scheme, several effective practices have been highlighted, which prosecutors are encouraged to adopt in order to be able to judicialize possible spillovers. The fact that the public prosecutor is involved at a very early stage in the development of law enforcement strategies seems to me to be an added value in ensuring that the judicial dimension of the operation can, if necessary, be taken into account. In this way, the prosecutor can give the investigative services, which will be mobilised, the criminal policy instructions relating to the interrogations to be preferred, the criminal qualifications to be retained and the legal framework to be applied. Beyond assessing the scale of an event, intelligence services can also usefully, through active monitoring on social networks, collect information about calls for the commission of offences or the existence of a formed group whose perpetrators can be identified upstream. In addition to the prompt prosecution of those responsible for serious disturbances of public order, where the investigations carried out in flagrance permit, the post-demonstration phase must also be used to judicialize the criminal acts. This is what happened, for example, in the Arc de Triomphe or in the prefecture of Puy-en-Velay: it was after the demonstration that we were able to use elements to judicialize a number of criminal acts. It is therefore through a new approach aimed at groups upstream of the demonstrations, coupled, if necessary, with the arrest in flagrante delicto of the most violent individuals, as well as through thorough and better work carried out downstream, that we manage to effectively fight against these radical groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u322	Mr Alain David has the floor for the Socialist and related group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u323	On 12 December, Cédric Herrou, a farmer who had become the emblematic defender of migrants on the French-Italian border, was acquitted of the charges of aiding the movement and residence of migrants by the Court of Cassation. This decision, which I believe honours the justice of our country, came after the Constitutional Council's happy recognition of the principle of fraternity, which derives from the freedom to help others for a humanitarian purpose, regardless of the regularity of their stay. On 14 February, Mr. Herrou was again released in another procedure opposing the Prefect of the Alpes-Maritimes. These cases could have stopped there and Mr. Herrou could have returned to his work as a farmer in the Roya Valley and to his humanitarian activism. This is not the case: for a reason that can be difficult to understand, the judicial harassment continues against this activist, the prosecutor having appealed this relaxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u324	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u325	This example illustrates how men and women with the best intentions are now being pursued blindly in Nice, Calais or elsewhere. Although the offence of solidarity has fortunately been repealed, French legislation remains stricter than the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air or the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which France ratified on 29 October 2002. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Madam Minister, my question is simple: at a time when the President of the Republic is giving lessons to the whole of Europe by means of the press, while he has helped to bury Europe's universal message by repeatedly prohibiting the landing of passengers from the Aquarius, will humanitarian activists continue to be worried when they come to the aid of people in distress?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u326	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u327	Mr President, I cannot agree with your interpretation of the position of the President of the Republic. You say that he is giving lessons to the whole of Europe: it does not seem to me that we should interpret the rostrum that has been published this morning. These are not lessons for the whole of Europe, it is a call for Europe to build common policies. However, with regard to the question that you are raising, namely the right to asylum and the reception of migrants in our country, you are well aware, Mr President, that it is only if Europe succeeds in building a common policy in this area, with borders that are defended, but which, at the same time, through a coherent and coordinated system between the Member States, allow asylum seekers to be welcomed, that we will be able to carry out a policy that is a humane policy and economic development for our countries – because, in the history of European integration, all countries have developed thanks to the support of migrants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u328	She's not answering the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u329	Why is the prosecution calling?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u330	We are in this process. It's not about giving lessons. When the Constitutional Council, which you mentioned, set out this formidable principle of solidarity and fraternity, it was not an abstract principle: it framed it within precise limits. These are the limits that the courts now interpret.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u331	But why is the prosecution calling?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u332	If we read the decision of the Constitutional Council, we understand that it is not a decision that opens the door. That's what I wanted to tell you, Congressman. I believe that this is the search for the construction of a European policy. The right to asylum in France is a constitutionally protected right in various parts of our Constitution. There is no question that France does not respect it. It is in this policy that we join. This can only be a European policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u333	And why is the prosecution calling?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u334	The minister did not answer the question. Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u335	Under what article, please?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u336	Under Rule 58, paragraph 1, on the proper conduct of our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u337	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u338	Madam Minister, I know that it is late, but you have been asked a specific question about the offence of solidarity and about the case of Cédric Herrou – you will agree with me that this is not an overflow in the context of the demonstrations. My colleague has asked you for an explanation of the prosecutor's attitude to the two acquittals that have been pronounced. You're just talking about great principles. Could you answer specifically about the attitude of the prosecution?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u339	Yes: why does the prosecution appeal?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u340	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u341	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] I will answer you very simply, honourable Member: I do not give any individual instructions to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u342	You bet! It's political!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u343	I call Mr Sebastien Nadot, a non-attached Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u344	Much has been said about the judicialization and criminalization of militant action. It is from the perspective of the search for a balance and with a view to the future that I want to recall these words of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, drawn from the Social Contract: "The strongest is never strong enough to be always the master, if he does not turn his strength into law and obedience into duty. » First, with regard to force and the right: the right to manifest is a fundamental freedom, but it is not a limitless right. Who breaks, who aggravates, who brutalizes by protesting, exposes himself to the use of force, to this famous principle of the monopoly of the legitimate violence of the state theorized by sociologist Max Weber. However, this principle works on balance only under several conditions: if trust is established between citizens and government; whether the right is fully respected; if the duty is applied without a priori, with discernment, in a proportionate manner and at acceptable tolerances. This refers us to the transformation of obedience into duty, dear to Rousseau. The nation, the social bond and the one and indivisible Republic are useful and magnificent ideas and tools of union. However, is it necessary to recall that society is at the same time unity and division? The Government must hear the demands of society and allow disputes to be expressed, failing which the negotiable conflict and debate give way to break-up behaviour. Replying to the woman or man revolted by Republican or populist incantations or flashballs will not cause the notion of duty to be born or reborn in the revolted. A new law in response to every social movement either. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] In a few days will come the global climate strike. The Government's renunciation of climate and environmental issues is evident. What legitimate forces will you be able to oppose the revolted youth who will descend the street to defend their planet? Will you use the methods and tactics of a warlord straight out of Game of Thrones to ask the youth to give up their future and their freedom, so quickly, so soon, so hard?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u345	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u346	Mr President, when you talk about the tensions that are going through a society that, to put it again, is between unity and division, tensions that may lead to breakdowns, I think you are right. Of course, attention must be paid to these tensions, to these vectors of unity and to these vectors of rupture. It seems to me – but perhaps you do not share this opinion – only in the responses to the movement that has been taking place for several weeks, which attest to the listening to the deep roots of the crisis, lies the means of creating unity and of taking into account what could be breaking ferments. Around 15 April, we will have elements of a response: the President of the Republic has committed himself to ensuring that, following the great debate and social events, precise answers are provided. I believe that the diversity of these answers, which will cover both social, economic and institutional fields, will be such as to ease tensions and thus create this unity which you call your wishes. That's what I wanted to answer. In addition, Mr.Coquerel asked me with a small written word to reply to his oral inquiry: while Mr.Dettinger's punishment, according to him, fell quickly, he asked me what was the situation for the policeman in Toulon. A judicial investigation is under way, Mr. Member of Parliament, which itself initiated an investigation by the IGNN whose results we are awaiting. This case follows the normal investigation procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u347	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-05-O1165.u348	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate on the effects of tax aid from the housing sector on the evolution of land prices and on the redistribution of the tax system; Debate on the drastic reduction in the number of jobs assisted and its impact on the fabric of solidarity at local level. The meeting is adjourned.
