ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law on the establishment of the National Music Centre. (No 2244). It is not without a certain emotion that I address you today for my last presidency of the session of the National Assembly with the honours of the Republican Guard. I have been fully engaged in the exercise of the Vice-Presidentship, with this commitment that determines us and the benevolence that is indispensable to the function. I will have the memories of our sometimes rough and difficult sessions, as the convictions are plural but so exciting. These took place by ensuring respect for all, by guaranteeing the expression of everyone, while ensuring their compliance with the rules of the National Assembly and the parliamentary calendar. I want to thank you for your trust. I would also like to thank my family, present today, as well as my collaborators – Patricia, Tony, Catherine and Matthias – for their unwavering support during this period. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament rise and applaud]] In conclusion, I thank all the staff of the National Assembly present around us to ensure the smooth running of the presidency and our debates – agents, bailiffs, administrators. Let me make a special mention to the board leaders who assisted me with vigilance and efficiency: the two successive directors of the session – Jean-Luc Lala and Stanislas Brézet –, the Director General of Legislative Services – Rémi Schenberg – and the Secretary General – Michel Moreau. Thank you all very much. Thank you. I'll meet you on the bench in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u2	Mr Pascal Bois, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u3	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Dear Carole, thank you very much for your excellent work as Vice-President. There is at least one of your colleagues who wins something in this movement, I in this case, since I am your colleague of the majority in the department of Oise. So I'll have the pleasure of seeing you more often because your role as vice-president took you a lot of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u4	I'm here too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u5	Let's not forget our other colleagues in the department!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u6	[[Smile]] I don't forget you, my colleague. We are the triumvirat of the day. During my speech last May, at the beginning of the examination of this text in session, I had quoted a sentence on the benefits of music that soothes and consoles. By adopting the bill, we will console the music industry that has been calling for a national centre for years – it is the last living art that does not have it – and we will appease it by giving it a better structured governance as well as tools that support creation and cultural diversity and enable it to anticipate changes in its ecosystem at best. I repeat this to the envier but it is essential: music is the second cultural industry in our country, it participates in its international cultural influence and its economic weight is considerable – it represents 8.7 billion euros in turnover and almost 240,000 jobs. This bill is intended to recognize the music industry and its artists at their fair value. On the one hand, the text sets out the main principles that should govern the action of the National Music Centre – CNM. It entrusts the latter with a general task of supporting the whole sector in all its aesthetics and the management of an observatory to analyse this sector and to guide public policies by coordinating not only information, vocational training but also artistic and cultural education in partnership with devolved services and local authorities. On the other hand, it assigns it more precise tasks: the management of intervention devices to assist production, creation, dissemination and publishing; direct instruction in phonographic tax credits and live entertainment, not to mention support for export, anticipation of technological change and security constraints. With regard to its governance, the NJC is under the supervision of the Minister of Culture and is administered by two gender-sensitive bodies: an executive board of directors and a professional advisory board. As for its scope, the new institution will bring together several current structures: the CNV – Centre national de la chanson, des variétés et du jazz –, the Bureau Export, as well as the associations FCM – Fonds pour la création musicale –, IRMA – Centre d'information et de ressources pour les musiques actuelles – and CALIF – Club action des labeles et des disquaires indépendants français. On this last point, I welcome the work of consultation, in particular on the delicate question of the transfer of staff, led by Catherine Ruggeri. This should lead to the drafting of decrees enabling the future centre to be operational on 1 January 2020. I would like to go back to some of the developments that have taken place in the text, which are the result of constructive and transpartial exchanges. The latter allowed us to arrive at a more inclusive version of the NJC's scope of action, thanks in particular to the addition of the reference to variety shows. Similarly, in the references to aesthetic diversity and creation, we have clarified the distinct role of authors, composers and performers. The role of local authorities, as the primary supporters of music policy, was also highlighted, as well as that of collective copyright management bodies, as they are prepared to participate financially in the NJC's actions. Finally, further improvements have made it possible to secure the merger arrangements of the five structures and associations mentioned above. More than ever before, we need the NJC to ensure the influence of our artists and the development of an environment that guarantees a rich and diverse creation, in accordance with our principle of cultural exception. The next step will be to be vigilant about the NJC's funding and operational build-up. This is the subject of the next budgetary debate. I have confidence in this. Finally, let me thank the Minister of Culture, who is absent today, but to whom the NJC particularly cares, as you know. I address the same friendly thoughts to Françoise Nyssen and Roch-Olivier Maistre, who became president of the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel. Thank you to the members of the firm and to the members of the DGMIC – Media and Cultural Industries Branch – and the DGCA – Creative Arts Branch. Thank you to our colleague Émilie Cariou, author with your servant, for a report on the CNM's prefiguration just a year ago – how pleasant it is to move from words to deeds! Thank you to our colleague rapporteur in the Senate, Mr.Jean-Raymond Hugonet. We both worked together. Thanks to our colleague Florence Provendier, responsible for the text for the majority group, to Clementine Jomier, administrator, as well as to all our respective collaborators – in particular, mine, Cédric Pruvost. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you all for this collective work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u7	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u8	I share your emotion, Madam President, and I would like to join the applause of this House and to pay tribute to your work for a little more than two years in a task that is always difficult, that of presiding over our work or your work. I would be grateful if you would excuse the Minister of Culture, who, on official travel to Ethiopia, cannot be present this afternoon for reading the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on a bill of his heart on the establishment of the National Music Centre. Many things have been excellently said by the rapporteur and I do not intend to repeat them. As minister responsible for relations with Parliament, however, I would like to stress at least two points. First, this bill responds in practice to a daily need of the French. Music is the first cultural practice of our compatriots. It is undergoing many upheavals to which we must respond: economic first with a worrying concentration of actors, technological second with the digital revolution. In this context, industry professionals have long waited for the creation of a forum bringing together all the stakeholders in the music ecosystem, including the state, and able to support all the actors facing the changes I mentioned. The National Music Centre responds to this expectation since it is assigned four major missions: analysis of the music sector, professional support, economic support to actors and international development. The future EPIC – a public industrial and commercial institution – will thus be a key player in the creation, dissemination and dissemination of music in France and beyond our borders. Second point which deserves to be stressed, Parliament acted quickly and well on a major subject. Of course, this bill is the result of a long reflection, initiated in 2011. Many reports have come to enrich it, including yours, Mr. Rapporteur, co-written with Émilie Cariou. I hope, however, that less than six months will separate the tabling of this text on your House and its final adoption by the Senate, scheduled for early October. The proposed law on the establishment of the National Music Centre is a joint work of the National Assembly, the Senate and the Government, which have expressed their diversity and worked in a trans-partisan manner, which I welcome. Many advances are to be put to your credit: improving the social responsibility of the future CNM, better respect for parity in governance bodies or strengthening support for creation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all the reasons mentioned by the Minister of Culture during the examination at first reading, then recalled at the moment by the rapporteur and, finally, for the reasons I have just mentioned, the Government is in favour of the adoption of the bill in the wording before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u9	In the general debate, Mr Pierre Dharréville will speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u10	Five minutes! That's how the new regulation goes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u11	It's democracy, according to Mr Ferrand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u12	"From any country, from any colour, music is a cry that comes from the inside," sings Bernard Lavilliers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u13	We have to sing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u14	These screams, we want them to be able to express themselves, to hear each other, to resonate. Remember this scene from the film by Robert Guédiguian Marius and Jeannette, during which one of the characters is worried and says: "He no longer has enough music in his heart to make his life dance."
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u15	Pierre Dharréville, it's culture!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u16	Music makes our lives dance: it colores them, takes them, wakes them up or reveals them, which calls for public policies to accompany musical creation and its sharing. For several years, the creation of a National Music Centre has been invoked, like those that exist for dance or cinema. Such an operator would make it possible to harmonise the action of the various existing bodies and make more accessible the devices that artists can enjoy. It could also play a leading role in the development of artistic practices. We are therefore in favour of such a creation. But the bill we are discussing again requires a critical look. First of all, the NJC must not be synonymous with weakening the public service or abandoning the missions currently being carried out by certain organizations, including the NVC. Nor, under any circumstances, can it be built to the detriment of the work of the Ministry of Culture. Over the past few years, the State has consistently discharged its missions to operators who then free themselves from the necessary political choices, while the ministries are left with no levers. However, as expected, the bill seems to focus only on the economic aspect of music, which is thought of on the neoliberal mode of competition. A whole section seems to be absent from the reflections: from musics that do not fall within the dominant commercial standards to those that can be described as non-profits, which are the act of associations, groups or artists having as their goal the practice and sharing of their art. It is for this reason that we would like to see the CNM's tasks fall within the scope of Article 3 of the Law of 6 July 2016, guaranteeing freedom of artistic creation in all its forms and defining the role of the State in preserving it. The CNM will fail in its mission if it becomes only a tool at the service of the music industry, dominated by it, its appetites and its criteria, and puts itself at its service, for the benefit of so-called champions. Such an organization should have the role of opening spaces other than standardization, taste formatting, low-cost, algorithm submission, stakeholder concentration, or submission to profitability. Culture, as we imagine it, cannot blend into the mould of supply and demand, where women and men would be mere receptacles and works of mere merchandise: it is better than that. What about cultural mediation in music, amateur practices, festivals emerging from local dynamics that escape the ogres of events? What guarantees will be provided for transparency, democracy and balance in the distribution of subsidies? What resources are planned to ensure the proper functioning of the CNM, while the appropriations of the Ministry of Culture have stagnated since the beginning of the mandate and that France Musique is being harmed? Finally, I welcome the fact that the amendment defended by Marie-George Buffet on behalf of our group has been retained, making equal access for women and men to the musical professions one of the central missions of the CNM. Women run only 10 per cent of current music scenes, 18 per cent of national choreographic centres and 20 per cent of national and regional drama centres. In addition, only 4% of conductors are women. These rates must alert us to women's lack of access to the professions in the cultural sector. The latter as a whole must act against these inequalities. Many actors and actors in the world of music have expressed to us their deep concern about the lack of recognition of cultural diversity and democracy in the very conception of the NJC. I deeply believe, along with others, that we must respect the "workers" of music and the humans whose lives it makes dance. [["Congratulation! » on the benches of the GDR group]] Therefore, while Communist MEPs remain in favour of the idea of a National Music Centre, they regret that parliamentary debates have failed to address the concerns that have been expressed. We will therefore not be able to vote on this bill: too many notes are still missing in the score and we doubt that it has the correct scope.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u17	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor. [[Applause on the LaREM and MODEM benches]] Before that, however, I would point out that the five-minute speaking time rule for a joint committee text has been in force for five years. So this is not a specific change in the rules of procedure at this sitting, Mr Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u18	That's right. It is the time devoted to motions that has been reduced!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u19	After the conclusion of this Joint Committee, music is once again invited to our Chamber in order to build the foundations of a project dear to parliamentarians, to all the players in the sector and beyond. It is because it brings us together and looks like us that music remains, year after year, the French's favorite cultural activity. The bill that we are going to pass to bring to light the National Music Centre is unanimous in that it responds to a pressing expectation from the sector, but also because we have shown a fruitful participatory approach. Indeed, this project to create the CNM is the result of an unprecedented concertation with the world of French music and live entertainment. From the beginning of the legislature, a report was drawn up by Mr Roch-Olivier Maistre. This work provided the basis for this text, which was subsequently validated and supplemented by the report – of high quality – drawn up by our colleague Émilie Cariou and our rapporteur Pascal Bois, at the request of the Prime Minister. During the consideration of this bill by our House last May, we collectively enriched the NJC's missions by including, among other things, support for the creation and enhancement of musical heritage or artistic and cultural education. On the basis of this work, we adopted this text in unison, before addressing it to the Senate. Under the baton of their rapporteur, Mr.Jean-Raymond Hugonet – who, for those who would not know, is an emeritus drummer – senators have in turn enriched the score through complementary editorial work, which allowed us to agree on the text submitted to the vote today. As a reminder, the CNM will bring together in one institution the current National Centre for Song, Variety and Jazz – CNV –, the Fonds pour la création musicale – FCM –, the Information and Resources Centre for Current Music – IRMA –, the Bureau Export, and the Club action des labeles et des disquaires indépendants français – CALIF. This rapprochement will generate threshold effects and will create significant levers for all players in the sector. Because bringing together all the stakeholders is about responding to the challenges of cultural diversity, economic support and development, innovation and dissemination in the territories, and finally export. This is a major positive signal for the future of our country's second cultural industry, which would not be what it is without the talent of artists, publishers, agents, managers, collective management organizations, professional associations or, more generally, all those who take risks, invest and defend our cultural exception. In the first half of 2019, 80% of streaming sales and listening were directed to artists produced in France. A large part of them are young talents, proving the virtues of the phonographic production tax credit. Nevertheless, the musical ecosystem remains fragile, being subject to strong competition and the risks of concentration of actors. The NJC will have a key role to play in preserving the sector's independence, vitality, innovation and creativity. If we adopt this text today, the NJC will be created on 1 January 2020, that is to say tomorrow. However, if we want its objective to be achieved, we will have to ensure that the budgetary debate, which will open in a few weeks' time, does not bring down. A rapprochement of several institutions such as those concerned involves costs related to the reorganization and integration of human resources, as well as, more broadly, the implementation of a strategy of resources, including financial resources. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But for the time being, let us seal the creation of this house common to all music, varieties and live show, and give, by our vote, the "la" to a sector eager to interpret this common work: "so mi la re sol do fa".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u20	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u21	Madam President, I wish you every success. This is an important step that we will take today: more than ten years after the launch of a reflection on the subject, at the initiative of Nicolas Sarkozy, the National Music Centre will see officially the light of day.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u22	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Good thing he was here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u23	Yet, from a purely factual point of view, everything is still to be done. For the time being, the NJC is only an empty envelope with fairly vague contours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u25	If I dared to compare, I'd say the bodyshell is in place, but the engine still has to be installed. As far as the bodywork is concerned, the NJC is already looking great: it is the subject of a broad consensus among professionals, although its governance will have to make this consensus a reality by giving a place on the board of directors to the five collective management bodies and having strong support within Parliament. Thus, the NJC is, at least in appearance, designed to meet the considerable challenges facing it. On the other hand, there are still many uncertainties about the engine. Basically, one of them dominates all the others: money. Who can say with which budget the NJC will work? Everyone is well aware that, without a budget to match the stakes – which several reports agree to set around 20 million euros – the CNM risks being only an empty shell.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u26	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u27	The music sector as a whole is marked by a very high degree of unpredictability. Success is not decreed, it is built, most often, in the long term. There is no secret: to succeed, you have to invest, most often without any guarantee. Support for business investment is therefore one of the priorities, if not the main one, of the future NJC.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u28	Music needs means!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u29	This is a very direct issue for cultural creation and diversity, because in the absence of investment, there is no chance of new talent and innovative artistic expressions emerging. Unfortunately, Minister, the Government has remained deaf to one of the strong proposals of the LR group: to allocate to the CNM a fraction of the so-called "Cope" tax on telecoms. However, this measure would have allowed the financing of the Centre to be sustained and would have prevented the sector from being suspended in Bercy's arbitrations under each finance law. In this and other areas, it is essential to give professionals, in a particularly sensitive sector, the long-term visibility they demand. In this sense, it would have been interesting for the CNM to be granted direct management of the tax credit for phonographic production and the tax credit for live music, and for this to be explicitly included in the text. The management of the financing of the safety of the venues can, and I welcome this provision, be delegated to the NJC by the Ministry of Culture. This is a particularly delicate subject, on which I have co-signed a report with Mr Bertrand Bouyx, in order to recall the need to accompany the world of music, as well as the organizers of shows and festivals, in terms of funding. In conclusion, the LR Group welcomes – and that will not surprise you, Minister – this bill, which is the result of a concerted and fruitful approach. In this regard, I welcome the work carried out by the rapporteur on the basis of the commitment made by President Sarkozy some ten years ago. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group – Rémy Rebeyrotte applauds]] But the hardest part, let's not fool ourselves, is in front of us. The question of funding will, you will understand, trigger our greatest vigilance. We have an appointment to discuss the finance bill. I understand the absence of the Minister of Culture today: Minister in charge of relations with Parliament, we hope to have you with us, you who have defended the NJC in this forum, to help us get the necessary funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u30	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u31	Today, our assembly is considering the text of the joint committee's proposal for a law, tabled by our colleague Pascal Bois, on the establishment of the National Music Centre. In our first reading work, we stressed the value of this initiative in supporting a sector and a sector that is very important in the cultural world of our country. Close your eyes, imagine yourself two minutes in a guinguette on the banks of Marne or listening to a tasty jazz... and you will see that we all share this observation: the National Music Centre will be a tool of convergence and collective intelligence to accompany the progress of the sector. It will rely on the existing one and on what has worked. This new public institution will thus defend the general interest, in complementarity with the initiatives already taken by the State through its central and decentralized services. He will be the guarantor of an ambitious and powerful public music policy, which will also irrigate the entire territory, from Hexagon to the overseas. The main legal difficulties have been removed, and the parliamentary procedure has made it possible to secure the modalities of linking the associations, in the first place the Fonds pour la création musicale – FCM – and the Bureau Export de la musique française. We also discussed the governance of the National Music Centre. It will be necessary to ensure that all sectors of this sector are represented at all levels. Finally, we must keep in mind the raison d'être of such a national centre: to support investments so that our producers and artists are finally more recognized internationally. That is why, in the forthcoming budgetary debate, we will all have to ensure that the future CNM is given the means of the ambitions we have placed in it. As we recalled during the first reading of the text in the House, it is imperative to retain public support mechanisms, in particular music tax credits, even as the sector has begun to recover. After experiencing severe disruptions since the early 2000s, the music sector is now growing, but it has not caught up with the losses of previous years. We must therefore guarantee his room for manoeuvre. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and IUD-I groups as well as on some benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement wishes this text to be adopted, an initiative that reflects a full commitment to the promotion of French art and culture. We must support it and give it the means to develop it. It is therefore time for the National Music Centre to see the light of day. As Bernard Lavilliers sang, "Music sometimes has major chords". We had the proof of that yesterday with the fine unanimity that was expressed in the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u32	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u33	The government could sing the whole song...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u34	"He played derision like a precision weapon"!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u36	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u37	Since the Joint Joint Committee has been concluded unanimously, we are beginning a final reading of the bill which will, once and for all, endorse the establishment of the National Music Centre. In the course of the discussions, the principle of this creation was unanimously welcomed; The aim is to have an effective tool to support the music sector as a whole. Of course, when this creation was mentioned, we all thought, by analogy, of the National Film Centre, the CNC, created in 1947. Since then, he has established himself as an indispensable actor in France. It still has a budget of almost 800 million euros to support film creation. Let us specify a few orders of magnitude: admissions to cinemas in France produce 1.3 billion euros of revenue, which is to be compared with 1.5 billion euros corresponding to the revenues of the ticketing of concerts and the sale of media. This means that the two sectors are comparable in terms of their economic importance, if we stick to the financial masses. But it is also a recognition that music remains, in comparison to cinema, the poor parent in terms of support, even as it is faced with major changes. I am thinking in particular of the ageing of spectators, with regard to classical music, and of the new forms of listening that are developing, for music in general. The different forms of music are all, whatever they are, faced with common challenges. The first issue is copyright. The adoption of the relevant directive by the European Parliament last spring highlighted the differences that exist within the European Union in this respect, and the agreement allowing for the recognition of a genuine copyright was obtained at the scrapping. Secondly, a more equitable distribution of value between the content – that is, the real creation – and the container – i.e., the pipe that allows the content to circulate. As we have all said unanimously, this distribution is currently very unbalanced in favour of containers, not content. The third challenge is the diverse and varied algorithms that guide users' listening. They are based on the use of data that are not currently billed to the platforms. Given the power of these platforms, it is easy to understand that it is essential to structure. This is the whole meaning of the creation of the National Music Centre. This creation should benefit from improvements made at first reading, both in the Senate and in the National Assembly. The text now states that the NJC promotes equal access for men and women to the musical professions, and supports writing, composition and interpretation. Its role in the territories is strengthened, as it will be able to enter into contracts and partnerships with local authorities, as well as with the various players in the music industry. On the other hand, several of us have said, two important points remain outstanding. First question: the NJC's budgetary means. I thank the Government, specifically the Minister of Culture, for having accepted my amendment stating that the CNM will benefit from the product, capped at €50 million, from the tax allocated to the CNV, the National Centre for Variety Song and Jazz. It's always better to write things down, to make sure they go well. The second question, on which some differences were expressed in our discussions, was the governance of the institution. We are pleased to acknowledge that improvements have been made in this area in the course of the discussions. However, some questions remain regarding the composition of the Board of Directors and the Professional Council of the NJC. In particular, a balance should be struck to reconcile the effectiveness of the new structure with the possibility for each of the actors to express themselves in it. In particular, this concern has been relayed by live entertainment entrepreneurs, who are not represented in any collective management body and will not be represented in the NJC's governance bodies. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM, MODEM, IUD-I and LR groups]] Nevertheless, this bill is a step forward, as it will finally create the National Music Centre. That is why the Socialist and related group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u38	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u39	We are considering the proposal for a law on the establishment of the National Music Centre, on which we have already spoken at first reading and which was the subject of a broad consensus – which we welcome – at the Joint Joint Committee. The creation of the National Music Centre has become a necessity, given the evolution of our societies. The rise of streaming, a consequence of the digital revolution, upsets usages and the value chain. If we are not to undergo the major changes, we must take the necessary steps by transforming the inexorable changes of our time into opportunities for tomorrow. We love the music. It is a dynamic sector, providing 240,000 jobs and more than €8.7 billion in turnover. Nevertheless, the French cultural model, the one that we love and defend, requires that we support the diversity and quality of creation, so that music continues to open up to other horizons, to transport us to other imaginary ones, but also and above all to keep it a powerful vector of emotions. You know my commitment to music tax credits, which encourage diversity and the risk of creation, which allow them. The Government will announce in a few days the budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2020; I can therefore only insist on the need to equip the CNM with the means of its ambitions, without compromising existing public support schemes, such as tax credits or employment aid from the FONPEPS, the National Fund for Permanent Employment in the Show. We are pleased that this text incorporates all the necessary provisions to support the export of our works and the representation of our artists throughout the world. It is about the spread of our cultural wealth, through the diffusion of the Francophonie and our universal values. At first reading, we had expressed reservations about the visibility we had on the work of the NJC. Several provisions seemed imprecise, including those relating to governance, the modalities for merging associations and the NJC's relationship with local and regional authorities. On each of these topics, we obtained answers. This has resulted in clarification within the operative part of the bill. First, the governance of the NJC has been detailed, with the composition of the board of directors and the establishment of a professional council that will bring together all professionals in the sector. Our group would like to welcome the joint composition of these councils, because it is in every reform that we must work towards equality between women and men. Our colleague Marie-George Buffet had intervened forcefully in this regard. Secondly, the methods of merging the associations that make up the Centre have been developed. In this regard, the introduction of the Export Bureau in the scheme responds to a unanimous request from professionals and parliamentarians. Finally, during the debates, particularly in the Senate, several provisions were adopted to establish links between the NJC and the territories. It is essential to include the territories in this reform, so that they fully participate in cultural policies and apply their territory-by-territory decline as best as possible. I would particularly like to thank the Minister of Culture for his work, as well as for his listening skills and his collaborative efforts, which have made it possible to include all stakeholders. Evidence of this is the consensus reached at the Joint Joint Committee. We were reassured during the discussions by the adoption of a number of amendments, two of which had been tabled by our group: the first tends to incorporate the variety into the scope of the CNM's missions; the second aims to allow the conditions of transfer between associations and the CNM to be dealt with by agreement, in order to prevent all problems in the establishment of the Centre. Finally, I thank all those who have worked for the success of the bill. In particular, I thank the rapporteur for his commitment. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on some benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LR groups]] The IDU and independent group will vote for this text, which will give new impetus to support the music industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u40	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u41	[[Applause on various benches]] "Who showed you/ This long way/ Who showed you/ This long way/ This way to Sao Tome? I quote these words from Cesária Évora to pay tribute to you, Madam President, because I know you are a big fan of them. They express the separation between two beings who love each other, and I think I can say that all of us here, unanimously, love you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u42	[[Smile]] You won't get an extra minute of speaking time, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u43	It's not so sure...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u44	Roch-Olivier Maistre's report almost two years ago gave a new dimension to the long-standing reflection initiated on the project of a "common house of music". Last January, Mr Pascal Bois and our colleague Émilie Cariou added their stone to the building. In the Liberties and Territories Group, we are pleased to finally see the outcome of this reflection in our House. Our way of listening, broadcasting and even creating music has undergone great changes: no longer be powerless spectators of a digital revolution that upsets our consumption and our habits, even in our most daily gestures. In the face of this upheaval, we must be active, inventive, and not passive. Unfortunately, we are not sufficiently involved in this transition, and artists are the first to suffer from this situation. Just look at the distribution of added value. Of course, streaming platforms have given a new breath to a record industry in crisis, but to whose benefit? Mainly the platforms themselves. That is the trend that we must reverse. Be careful, however: our objectives must not only be economic. Beyond economics and figures, the creation of the CNM is an opportunity for France to propose a cultural vision and policy that will make its music shine in France and internationally. The Libertés et territoires Group wishes to recall the three principles that must guide our policy in favour of music. Above all, we must recognize the intrinsic diversity of our musical ecosystem. The National Assembly had devoted its support to artistic creation and the promotion of varieties; We thank the Senate for adding to the NJC's missions the guarantee of musical diversity, while respecting the equal dignity of repertoires. The second aspect concerns the cultural influence of France and the French language throughout the world. In this sense, it was useful to stress the NJC's international ambition. We can indeed rejoice, because never has the tricolor song been so popular outside our borders. However, we must continue our efforts: in a recent letter to the Minister of Culture, many radio stations have called for the reform of the audiovisual sector to relax certain rules, in particular concerning quotas for French songs. We will therefore be paying attention to this reform, which will be the subject of our discussions in the near future. Because the dissemination of French, French and non-French music – I am thinking in particular of regional languages – and its exhibition in the media, are essential conditions for its success. The last principle concerns the necessary ambition of our territorial cultural policy. This includes partnerships with local communities and actors; the consolidation of actions into a single centre must not be synonymous with concentration. Unfortunately, there are too many cultural deserts in France: the CNM must offer equal access to music to all citizens throughout the country. Again, thank the Senate for strengthening the NJC's territorial development mission, in particular by offering local and regional authorities the opportunity to integrate the professional council. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that this bill is in the right direction, but questions remain. One of them concerns the composition of the board of directors – we still don't know who will be represented – so even this board will determine the operation and direction of the NJC. But the main concern is, of course, the financing, estimated at €20 million, which you have referred to the next finance bill. Since we are on the eve of his deposit, be assured that we will be attentive to this issue. A priori, you propose a redistribution system through an assigned tax levied on the sector's revenues. All right. But we will not be able to ignore the need for additional funding, as the NJC will have new missions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Libertés et territoires Group will be enthusiastic about the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u45	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u46	I am pleased that we have to vote again on the proposed law on the establishment of the National Music Centre, as the stakes are great for the music sector. Music is part of humanity's intangible cultural heritage. A means of expression par excellence, it unites us and brings us together beyond languages and borders. It is present in all societies and in this it is perhaps the most universal of performing arts, according to UNESCO. This common heritage, whose cultural practice is the most popular in our country, is too often mistreated. We agree on the need for such a bill. It emanates from a real need and echoes one of the proposals of the programmatic booklet of France, L'Avenir en commun. However, we remain vigilant at some points. First of all, it is desirable that the creation of the NJC is not conducive to outsourcing the missions of the Ministry of Culture, which is sufficiently weakened, with ever-declining means. We constantly denounce and deplore the fact that culture is the variable for adjusting public policy budgets. We therefore hope that the NJC will have sufficient resources to carry out all its tasks. We all agree, it must not be a question of creating, for lack of ambition or political will, a tool that would be prevented from working optimally. The music sector is experiencing increasing difficulties. The creation of the Centre national de la musique must be accompanied by a global reflection on the music sector, its development, its plurality, but also guarantee to musicians the possibility of creating in the best conditions and living properly of their art. Poverty affects more and more players in the music sector. It was therefore urgent to put in place concrete measures to solve those problems, and the NJC could contribute to that. We will also pay attention to the effects of the sharing of all services. We are aware of the consequences of using this term: in your novlangue, "mutualization" means "reducing human and financial resources" – we have seen too many times. This levelling from the bottom is included in the lines of Public Action 2022, which acts the dismantling of the public service. Nevertheless, applied in a consistent manner, this mutualization could simplify sometimes complex approaches due to the large number of interlocutors. We will verify that the NJC will have a constant budget, which gives it financial sustainability and an institutional foundation. We are concerned about the appointment of the NJC President by Order-in-Council. It would be more opportune for him or her to have more independence from the Government, which would ensure that decisions taken, particularly in budgetary matters, were freed from central power and genuinely in the public interest. Cultural policy in our country suffers because of a lack of subsidies, of course, but also because of a market policy that is contrary to our ideals. If we favour an emancipatory culture, which would be both the engine and the reflection of individual and collective liberation, the Culture Pass, a veritable archetype of the individualization and hyper-marketization of culture, illustrates your mercantile policy. We believe that culture must be moved away from market power, the law of profitability and the rule of finance. The National Music Centre should be no exception. We will therefore have to ensure the conditions for its independence and guarantee the general interest, even if we are to frustrate certain private interests. As you will understand, we are in favour of the creation of the NJC, provided that the NJC is equipped with the means to meet its challenges. We will ensure that this is done in the coming finance bill. The music sector now weighs EUR 8.7 billion, that of video games EUR 4.9 billion. It would be appropriate to accompany this expanding sector. Since we are in synergy, in a service dynamic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u47	What the hell is that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u48	...promoting the support of the structures of creation and production, let us release our energies. Why not now look at the creation of a National Video Games Centre?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u49	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u50	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 91 Number of votes cast 89 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 89 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u51	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing France to accede to the Convention on Jurisdiction and the Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters for its application in Saint-Barthélemy, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, the Wallis and Futuna Islands, French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands (No. 1021, 1366).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u52	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u53	The bill submitted today for your approval proposes the accession of France to the so-called Lugano II Convention, concerning jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, with a view to its application to some of our overseas communities. I would like to clarify the important stakes of this text. Since the first regulations of 1968, the European legal order has undergone several developments in the field of judicial cooperation and the recognition of legal decisions between Member States. The Brussels Convention of 27 September 1968 already organised jurisdiction in the international order of the courts of the Member States of the European Community and facilitated the simplified recognition and enforcement of judgments delivered in other Member States. The effectiveness of this Convention led to the extension in 1988 of cooperation to the EFTA Member States – the European Free Trade Association – through a parallel convention, known as the Lugano I Convention, concluded on 16 September 1988 in Lugano, Switzerland. In 1997, the Treaty of Amsterdam made this civil judicial cooperation a Community policy, and led to the conversion of the Brussels Convention into a regulation, known as the Brussels I Regulation, of 22 December 2000 – which itself was recast in 2012. The Convention on Jurisdiction and the Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters, known as the Lugano II Convention, which we are dealing with today, is the result of the adaptation of the Lugano I Convention to take account of the adoption of the Brussels I Regulation. It was signed by the European Community on 30 October 2007 and ratified by the European Union on 18 May 2009 and entered into force on 1 January 2010. Its scope covers disputes in civil and commercial matters, with the exception of tax, customs or administrative matters, and provides for rules of jurisdiction in judicial matters identical to those laid down in the Brussels I Regulation. On the other hand, it contains provisions specifying the conditions for the application of the principle of mutual recognition and simplified enforcement, the latter being the main innovation of the Convention. For those who are unfamiliar with this concept, the simplified exequatur allows enforceable decisions rendered by a State bound to the convention to be enforced in another State party after having been made enforceable at the request of any interested party. In simple terms, this means that a decision of a State is enforced in another State as soon as any party so requests. The overseas countries and territories – OCTs, in the Brussels language – are, however, not included in this system of judicial cooperation. The Brussels I Regulation in particular concerns only the metropolitan territory and the overseas communities with the status of ultraperipheral region – the ORs – i.e. France, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Saint-Martin, La Réunion, Guyana and Mayotte. Consequently, with regard to the rules on civil judicial cooperation, the territories we are talking about are still applying the Brussels Convention of 27 September 1968, whereas it has been replaced, for the Member States, by the Lugano Convention and then Lugano II. It is in this context that France wishes to accede to the Lugano II Convention. This Convention may apply to the whole of its territory – not only the territories mentioned above, but also New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, Wallis-et-Futuna, Saint-Barthélemy and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. The objective of this accession is therefore to harmonise the rules applicable to jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of court decisions throughout France, the Metropolitan and the Ultramarine. This accession will facilitate the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments handed down by national courts in these overseas communities and will enable persons domiciled there, regardless of their nationality, to resort to the competent jurisdiction of the community, or to be brought before it. In addition, this accession will provide greater legal certainty and predictability in the event of cross-border civil and commercial disputes between EU Member States, ultramarine territories and EFTA Member States. It will, therefore, encourage their commercial relations. France's accession to this Convention thus contributes to the consolidation of the area of freedom, security and justice at the foundation of the European project. It allows it to be extended to territories – albeit far away – where these provisions are very much expected. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These are the main provisions of this Convention. I am sure that we will have a very interesting debate about him in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u54	Mrs Annie Chapelier, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u55	The National Assembly has before it the draft law authorizing the accession of France to the Convention on Jurisdiction, the Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters for its application in Saint-Barthélemy, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, the Wallis and Futuna Islands, French Polynesia, New Caledonia and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands – in short, in the overseas communities governed by article 74 of the Constitution and the communities with special status. These overseas communities are not formally part of the territory of the European Union, unlike the overseas departments which have the status of outermost regions. They are only associated with the European Union as overseas countries and territories on behalf of their special relations with a Member State. In this respect, they are not subject to European law and are therefore excluded from Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, the so-called Brussels I Regulation. These rules of judicial cooperation, based on the principle of the equal value, competence and level of the legal systems of the Member States, which allow the recognition and enforcement of a judicial decision wherever it is rendered, therefore stop at the borders of metropolitan France and the overseas departments. It is this anomaly that this bill, albeit particularly arid, is correcting. France will therefore formally accede to the Lugano II Convention on behalf of its overseas countries and territories. This Convention, signed on 30 October 2007 by the European Union on the one hand and Iceland, Norway and Switzerland on the other, and entered into force on 1 January 2010, replaces the Lugano I Convention of 16 September 1988 and aims to bring the last three countries into the European judicial area. These three countries will formally join the OCTs after the adoption of this draft law. The main aim is to provide these overseas countries and territories with greater legal certainty and predictability in the event of cross-border civil and commercial disputes involving a national of a Member State of the European Union, Iceland, Norway or Switzerland. These disputes have indeed become more frequent, while the principles of the free movement of goods, services, capital and, above all, people apply. The necessary legislative adjustments in French Polynesia and New Caledonia do not preclude France's accession to the Lugano II Convention. The resulting judicial security and predictability will be an asset for all overseas countries and territories, removing a legal barrier to the development of their trade relations. I will cite an example in the report: a Polynesian judge has pronounced a divorce between a Hungarian national and a Polynesian French woman. After leaving the archipelago, the husband stopped paying maintenance due, but the wife could not legally compel him to do so. The simplified enforcement mechanism provided for in Article 38 of the Lugano II Convention will make the judgement of the Court of Papeete enforceable in all countries of the European Union, including Hungary. That's for the civilian side. The commercial aspect of the Convention is of course just as important. Indeed, without legal certainty and predictability, companies are reluctant to invest in these territories, while cooperation with the European Union allows overseas countries and territories to support their efforts in key sectors for their development. The text is therefore essential to enable the overseas communities to make full use of their economic potential by further strengthening trade and investment with the countries of the European Union but also with their immediate international environment, as long as they can be an attractive gateway to the European market for third-country companies. I cannot conclude this statement without recalling what the overseas countries and territories bring to France and the European Union. They contribute to their global reach, thanks to their exceptional maritime surface – about 9.17 million square kilometres. These overseas countries and territories are the source of expertise in risk management, health, telemedicine. They facilitate cooperation with their neighbouring countries, and give France a unique, multicontinental international environment. Such cooperation can address common challenges and involves participation in a range of regional organizations. I shall mention only a few areas of cooperation which I believe deserve special attention. The first one is particularly dear to me: the defence of biodiversity and exceptional natural resources. French overseas countries and territories account for 80 per cent of French biodiversity and 10 per cent of the world's coral reefs, the majority of which are in the Pacific region, in French Polynesia. They have made biodiversity conservation a priority. This is an essential area of cooperation. It should also be mentioned that the overseas countries and territories are laboratories of high value-added initiatives for the European Union and have great potential for the green economy, the blue economy, the circular economy, renewable energy, the fight against and adaptation to climate change. They are always on the front line in these areas. I will mention, thirdly, university cooperation: there are leading universities overseas, such as the University of New Caledonia, which has nearly 2,800 students and the University of French Polynesia – almost 3400 students – as well as a well-established network of national and local research centres. I have to mention health, at last. The overseas countries and regions have effective medical services, the infrastructure has been modernised very recently, telemedicine is developing, as is health cooperation with the countries of their respective geographical basins. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I invite you, following the Foreign Affairs Committee, to pass this bill, which is essential for the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u56	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u57	I welcome Annie Chapelier's excellent report on this convention which will bring greater legal certainty to the overseas countries and territories. The text will enable small and medium-sized ultramarine enterprises to take their full place in their immediate environment as well as in intra-Community trade. The Assembly of French Polynesia and the Congress of New Caledonia have already given a favourable opinion on the draft law and are waiting only for ratification to take the various measures that will enable the Lugano II Convention to produce all its effects. This debate is an opportunity to recall that our country – it is a force – is the country of the three oceans. Thanks to the overseas countries, France has the second largest maritime area in the world. Our exclusive economic zone covers 9.17 million square kilometres, an area almost twenty times larger than that of metropolitan France. It is a tremendous wealth for France in strategic, economic, energy and environmental terms. Thanks to its presence in the three oceans, France can cooperate directly with many countries in its remote environment. She is a member of the Pacific Community and participates in the Pacific Regional Environment Programme. The Foreign Affairs Committee has been working since 2017 to capitalize on this geostrategic asset. We adopted an information report presented by our colleagues Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Joachim Son-Forget concerning France's strategy on the seas and oceans and in particular the strengthening of marine protected areas. The co-rapporteurs have made many other proposals to protect and secure our exclusive economic zone. Last February, the committee also authorised the creation of an information mission on the international environment of overseas departments and communities, which it entrusted to Annie Chapelier, our rapporteur today, and Berengère Poletti. We can, I am sure, value these territories in a very concrete way. The convention that is being put to our vote is very directly related to this project. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Overseas countries and territories are particularly vulnerable to the consequences of climate change, while they account for 80% of our biodiversity. Renewable energy and circular economy initiatives are increasing. For example, New Caledonia's energy mix will account for 80 per cent of renewable energy by 2021, i.e. tomorrow. It is up to us to support all of these initiatives. This Convention invites us to do so, which is why I invite you to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u58	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u59	In the context of transnational relations, where a civil or commercial dispute involving a Member State of the European Union and one of the 25 overseas countries and territories which have constitutional links with France, Denmark, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom arises, the determination of the competent judge is crucial. Behind the apparently cold and technical legal procedure which affects the rules of attribution of competence are human situations, the consequences of which are sometimes devastating for the women and men concerned. While legal systems initially unilaterally laid down rules of international jurisdiction for their jurisdictions, very soon difficulties arose, including competition and skill gaps. Consequently, the States have decided to coordinate their activities to enact the rules of jurisdiction in order to adopt common rules. Thus, within the framework of the European Union, a special effort has been made to unify the rules of conflict of laws and the rules of jurisdiction with the ultimate aim of achieving a genuine European judicial area which makes it impossible to abuse and deny justice. The Convention of 27 September 1968 on the international jurisdiction of the Member States and on the effects of judgments of the Member States within the European Union, known as the Brussels Convention, is a first example of this in civil and commercial matters. Converted in 2000 into a European regulation known as Brussels I, this Convention does not apply to the overseas countries and territories, which remain under the control of the 1968 Brussels Convention, which has certain defects. At the same time, the Lugano Convention was signed on 16 September 1988 by the Member States of the European Community and those of the European Free Trade Association. In 2007, it was replaced by the Lugano II Convention, which also does not concern the overseas countries and territories. However, the Convention provides that Member States of the European Union "acting on behalf of certain non-European territories which are part of their territory or whose external relations are their responsibility" may accede to it upon its entry into force. In these circumstances, the Libertés et Territoires Group is satisfied that France has decided to accede to the Lugano II Convention on behalf of the overseas countries and communities of New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Saint-Barthélemy, Saint-Pierre and Miquelon, the French Southern and Antarctic Territories and the Wallis and Futuna Islands. This will facilitate the cross-border movement of judicial decisions in civil and commercial matters emanating from their jurisdictions or whose enforcement is sought on their territory. In doing so, we will allow these territories to benefit from the principle of mutual trust in the jurisdictions and legal systems of each other. As a result, legal certainty and predictability in legal cases with cross-border implications will be provided to the people of overseas communities with OCT status. In the future, all their relations with the Member States of the European Union, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland – and possibly third States that choose to accede to them – will be governed by a single text. It was time: remember that it was following an interministerial meeting held in November 2010 that France decided to become a party to the Lugano II Convention on behalf of its overseas communities with OCT status with a view to bringing the rules applicable throughout the national territory closer together. Again, it was time, and I thank you for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u60	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u61	The examination of this bill under the ordinary procedure allows us to address the subject too little mentioned in this Chamber of the status of the overseas countries and territories, those territories far from Hexagon which are not an integral part of the European Union, but which are nevertheless an essential partner. The twenty-six OCTs, of which New Caledonia and Polynesia are the most populous, benefit for their economic and social development from the support of the European Union in key sectors, but they also contribute, through their cooperation with neighbouring countries, to the influence of the Member States. It is thanks to them that the European Union is present on all continents. It is also thanks to them that France will be, after Brexit, the last European country present in the Pacific: we must seize this opportunity for France by encouraging the cooperation potential of the OCTs in their regional environment. To date, the overseas countries and territories have been subject to the Brussels Convention, whose ratification in 1968 led to a commitment for the entire national territory. This bill is intended to allow France to accede on behalf of its OCTs to the Lugano II Convention, which entered into force in 2010, so that they benefit from the same rules as the rest of the national territory. By passing this bill, we will harmonize the applicable legislation between metropolitan and ultramarine territories in the area of judicial cooperation. Above all, we will provide the OCTs with greater legal certainty and predictability in the event of cross-border civil and commercial disputes, which have become more frequent and numerous because of the principle of free movement. The principle of mutual recognition and the simplified exequatur mechanism are the main innovations of this text. The examples you have proposed, Madam rapporteur – the sale of nickel by a Caledonian company to a German company and the divorce in Papeete between a Polynesian and a Hungarian – illustrate perfectly the practical consequences of its application in the OCTs. I can assure you that New Caledonia, whose Congress, as the chair of the commission recalled, has given a favourable opinion on this bill, will make the necessary amendments to its code of civil procedure in order to make the provisions of the convention fully effective. To further illustrate the importance of this ratification, I recall that since the transfer of jurisdiction in civil and commercial law, New Caledonia has not made any changes to its legislation. At the same time, contract law – to cite a flagrant example – has been upset in Hexagon. The widening differences, year after year, between French and Caledonian law create a gap and may lead to legal uncertainties and disputes, hence the need to ensure the recognition of decisions rendered in one State or territory by the courts of another State bound by the Convention. The judicial security and predictability it will bring will therefore be a real asset for the OCTs, promoting the development of their commercial relations. More generally, I stress the need to encourage and support the cooperation potential of these French territories with their regional environment on innovative projects, whether in the field of biodiversity protection, energy, university cooperation or health. While the President of the Republic has affirmed his will to build an indo-Pacific axis, France must vigorously defend the interests of these OCTs in Brussels, Madam Secretary of State, particularly in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. The OCTs are a real asset for France's foreign policy. They contribute to the oceanic and international dimension of the European Union. Let us make them better valued and ensure the authority of the decisions taken in civil and commercial matters, as France's accession to the Lugano II Convention will allow. As you will understand, the independent IDU group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u62	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u63	Here is an exceptional text, and even fantastic! That's fantastic! Here we are in the kingdom of Ubu. Ubu-roi! France signs an international agreement with France – with countries considered by the European Union as third States. Extraordinary! Where are we going? And it's not about any territory: Saint-Barthélemy, New Caledonia, Wallis-et-Futuna, the French Southern and Antarctic Lands – which we spoke about this morning in the Committee on Foreign Affairs at a magnificent meeting whose scientific density has taught us a lot – or Saint-Pierre and Miquelon and French Polynesia. These countries are third countries: they are not recognised as participating in the European Union! And we sign the so-called Lugano II agreements. Lugano is certainly a beautiful city in Italian Switzerland, but there is still a real problem: where is the unity of the French Republic one and indivisible? I'm not sure if a lutin is a little smart...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u64	[[Smile]] A Hutin?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u65	A somewhat intelligent lutin, I said, which would decide to counter the Maastricht or other agreements could gain from the legal point of view. I am totally convinced of that – totally. Let us therefore pay attention to what is happening. We will naturally vote in favour of this agreement, which deals with civil and commercial matters: no difficulty in this regard. However, believe that I am upset when France signs an agreement with France! Allow me a second point which I will illustrate only by one example, because in the great democracy of Richard Ferrand, President of the National Assembly, the speaking time of the opposition groups is divided by two. So I only have five minutes while I have ten minutes before Richard Ferrand's reforms. Either; Democracy is no longer democracy. The opposition's opportunity to express itself has been reduced. I ask, Madam President, to use the possibility of an explanation of vote; So I'll only lose three minutes. That's lamentable! You can't speak for ten minutes about a convention like this: it's terrible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u66	Can you come back to your speech, Mr. Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u67	No, it's very important, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u68	Of course, but that is not the subject of your intervention. In addition, each group has five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u69	We are in a national assembly and the representative of the fourth political group in the Assembly that I am entitled to say that the opposition's opportunity to speak has been halved! In short, since I don't have time, I'll only talk about Wallis-et-Futuna. It is very simple: the inhabitants are not happy and are far from spoiled. Because of a lack of money, they had a very high rate of emigration to New Caledonia. They lost their last supermarket two years ago. We're talking about proximity, but they don't have a post office anymore! They've got nothing left. The countries which Europe considers to be third parties should not be third countries in relation to France. The Rugby World Cup begins Saturday morning, Madam Secretary of State – that's why I chose the example of Wallis-et-Futuna, because this territory has a rugby team. Being a third country and because France signs with France and Wallis-et-Futuna, he could perfectly participate not in the World Cup but in the tournament of the six nations, since he does not belong to Europe! In short, Wallis-et-Futuna's rugby team could really play today!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u70	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u71	Yes, I know, Richard Ferrand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u72	You know, Mr. Hutin, that each group, whether majority or opposition, has five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u73	[[MM. Jean-Paul Lecoq and Alain David applaud]] Wallis-et-Futuna's last participation dates back to 1979. Since I have been cut off and since the reform, the opposition can no longer express itself, I say this clearly: they are third countries!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u74	Mrs Danièle Obono, for the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u75	The opposition can no longer speak, but the presiding officer has nothing to do with it, I would point out!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u76	The bill we are debating today authorizes France's accession to the Convention on Jurisdiction, Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters for its application in Saint-Barthélemy, Saint-Pierre and Miquelon, the Wallis and Futuna Islands, French Polynesia, New Caledonia and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands – as incongruous as it may seem given the status, including legal status, of these countries. The purpose of the Convention is to strengthen the legal protection of persons established in those territories and to establish a rapid procedure to ensure the enforcement of judgments and judicial transactions. It determines the jurisdiction of the courts in those territories and aims to clarify the rules in a large number of cases concerning contracts, insurance, and so on. It is essentially a legal consistency – about which we could glouse about the status of these countries – but we are in favour of it. Beyond these measures, this discussion gives us the opportunity to discuss more generally the situation of the overseas countries and territories, in particular those concerned by the Convention, including within the European framework. In addition, the republican promise of equality is far from being fulfilled. In many areas, inequalities with the continent – France and other European countries – are staggering. The price differentials are considerable: according to INSEE data for 2015, food products overseas were between 37% and 48% more expensive, the unemployment rate is two to three times higher, and GDP per capita is between 31% and 37% lower in Martinique and Guadeloupe, up to 79% in Mayotte, 43% in French Polynesia and 68% in Wallis-et-Futuna. Movements against expensive life experienced by many of these territories have forced the state to implement catch-up plans, which are more likely to be sprinkled. The Government has announced an increase in the overseas budget of more than 17 per cent for 2019, combining new credits, exemptions from charges and reductions in tax arrangements, but it is essentially a pass-through that has involved the release of 70 million euros for an exceptional fund dedicated to public investment. The social and economic situation of the ultramarine territories is aggravated by the fact that they are among the first victims of climate change. The need to protect biodiversity has been discussed in previous interventions, with the impact of this phenomenon being particularly strong overseas. I am thinking in particular of Hurricane Irma in 2017, which caused the death of eleven people and damaged 95% of the building in Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy, for an estimated total cost of 1.9 billion euros. Again, the effort of national solidarity has not been sufficient. The Government had posted €500 million in aid, but only €179 million had actually been released for reconstruction. We reiterate our request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on this subject. Beyond these measures, the scientific consensus that global warming increases hurricane intensity should challenge us. The annual average of violent hurricanes increased by 75 per cent between 1970 and 2004. Environmental planning is urgent and must take into account these territories and those countries with which we are constitutionally bound; It will have to enable us to get out of fossil fuels and develop renewable energies. Inequalities also relate to access to care. In a October 2017 opinion, the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights noted the worrying finding of serious social and territorial inequalities in access to health in all ultramarine territories. According to a 2014 report by the Court of Auditors in Wallis-et-Futuna, health expenditure was the lowest in France, while the health situation was worse. Guadeloupe has no centralized hospital infrastructure since the fire of the CHU de Pointe-à-Pitre in November 2017. It took a strike movement of staff and an extremely strong mobilization to reach an agreement yesterday. We will pay attention to its proper implementation, so that the commitments made are not empty promises and are implemented within satisfactory deadlines. Legal protection must include social, climate, but also fiscal justice, Saint-Barthélemy and Saint-Martin acting, derogation after derogation on income tax, tax havens: this is an issue for France, Europe and these countries. We support accession to this Convention, but we will continue to intervene for greater equality and justice in all its dimensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u77	I know that some adjustments are necessary, but please try to respect the five-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u78	Thank you, Richard Ferrand!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u79	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u80	It is proposed that we update the conventions applicable in the overseas countries and territories with regard to the distribution of judicial, judicial and legislative powers between the countries of the European Union or the European Free Trade Association. The so-called Lugano II Convention, signed in 2007, aims to eliminate as many negative and positive conflicts as possible and to harmonize the conditions for enforcement and recognition of decisions rendered abroad. But originally, it did not concern the OCTs, namely Polynesia, New Caledonia, Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon, Wallis-et-Futuna, Saint-Barthélemy and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. France's accession to an application of the Convention in these territories is therefore relevant for the purpose of transnational legal security. The internationalization of reports makes human and commercial trade complex. In this respect, the OCTs have every interest in being included in a treaty which aims to organise the competences between the courts and the laws of each State of Europe in a dispute involving several signatory countries and to ensure the proper application of judicial decisions by those same States. The report is very interesting and rightly refers to the changes that New Caledonia and French Polynesia had to make to their code of civil procedure in order for the Convention to have a full effect. However, attention should be drawn to the fact that such a practice should not become an additional means for the State to impose its standards without adjustments being made to adapt them to the local context. If good examples are given in the committee's report to plebiscite this convention with the overseas countries, it omits an important part with regard to an international convention, that of reciprocity. The Polynesian, for example, craftsman, attracts a consumer from these countries to a jurisdiction in another European country, not a distributor, and cannot assert his rights as a continental European would. Because of the distance and the costs involved, first of all, but also because of the language barrier in a non-French-speaking country. Imagine the anxiety of the small craftsman from our home who seeks to export directly to the continent via his website and who has to face higher costs than a company resident in Europe. The scheme should ensure access to justice in the same way. Otherwise, small Polynesian and Caledonian companies are potentially handicapped. This text does not require any further comments, either in its form or its technical usefulness. The situations of lis pendens or connectedness are probably as unpleasant as the attempt to make the ordinary citizen understand the meaning of these words. But, in my view, this text does not address the reality of the Pacific. At a time when peoples call for respect for their history, where to establish links with those who share our original basin, how does this text meet the primary needs of Polynesians or Caledonians? Who is this convention made for? Who says in his reading that it brings the people of Reao, Mangareva, Koné or Poindimié closer to their families in New Zealand, Vanuatu, the Philippines, Tonga or Australia? The French State, in the person of the President of the Republic, decides on international relations between the peoples of French Polynesia and New Caledonia and those of other States. It also affirmed and reaffirmed its intention to use these territories in its Indo-Pacific strategy. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq applauds]] That being said, we will vote for this text, since in reality we are 18000 kilometres from the real stakes of our territories. Mauruuru e te aroha ia rahi.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u81	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u82	The terms of the agreement are not simple to understand, just the title does not make much desire. However, it was essential to look at that convention. Much has been said, so that I will simply give two concrete examples to illustrate, to those who look at us, the meaning of such an agreement, which concerns very distant territories, but which is essential for them. The first case concerns a company. Take the example of a New Caledonian company that sold large quantities of nickel to a German company. The latter does not want to pay the agreed price and claims that the contract is void. What to do? Today, the New Caledonian company assigns the German company to the Nouméa court, the place where the goods are received by the German company, which has itself been responsible for the transport. The Nouméa court confirms the validity of the contract and condemns the German company to pay the agreed price. How can this decision be enforced? After the entry into force of the Lugano II Convention, the New Caledonian company will be able to enforce in Germany the judgment handed down by the Nouméa court for the purpose of enforced enforcement in that country, i.e. in order to have the German company carry out physical enforcement of the property or assets held there. That's all this convention can do! The procedure provided for in the Lugano II Convention is much simpler than that of the Brussels Convention currently applicable, according to which the New Caledonian society should take several additional steps to eventually win the case. Making judgments in the OCTs enforceable more easily and quickly will be very valuable to the OCTs. The second is the separation of two people from different countries, a situation I know well to live abroad. A judge pronounced a divorce between a Polynesian national and a Hungarian and awarded alimony, which was paid by the Hungarian to his former wife and their two children. What happens frequently – I encounter such cases every day in my constituency –, the former husband has returned to Hungary and of course has – I use this adverb, forgive me, but it reflects the emotion of my fellow citizens who contact me on the subject – stopped paying maintenance: how to enforce the judgment in Polynesia? He no longer counts either in Polynesia or in metropolitan France. Thanks to the simplified and simplified procedure of the Lugano II Convention, the former wife will be able to enforce in Hungary the judge's decision on maintenance: the property and assets of her former husband can be seized so that she can have a normal life. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is how I wanted to illustrate how this Convention will greatly facilitate the daily lives of businesses and individuals in the overseas countries and territories. I invite you to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u83	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u84	Following a request from several groups, we are now considering these five international conventions under the ordinary procedure, while the simplified examination procedure was initially foreseen. For two of these texts, the approval of the agreement between France and Switzerland on nuclear research and that of the air agreements with Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Mozambique, the Conference of Presidents only decided yesterday morning to abandon the simplified examination. I know that the opposition to the simplified examination is right for the group presidents, but I am still wondering about the unprecedented number of conventions examined under the ordinary procedure since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u85	That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u86	My colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs regularly recall this: the debates in this committee are open to the press, retransmitted and available on the National Assembly's video portal. She therefore works transparently, especially since her president, Marielle de Sarnez, leaves much room for debate and questions during the sittings.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u87	It's not the same thing! This is the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u88	The president has not hesitated to suspend or postpone the examination of certain texts so that we can deepen our knowledge of their content: the substantive work on these texts is therefore done! I would also like to invite those who are watching us to read the various reports drawn up by our colleagues and by the administration of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as they provide a wealth of information on the countries concerned. I would also like to point out that we cannot change the least comma of the various international conventions we are considering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u89	That's the whole point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u90	We can talk about it anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u91	The agenda of this meeting reflects their extreme disparity. But while some – the one with Afghanistan for example – legitimately deserve an in-depth debate, I wonder about the need to devote equivalent time...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u92	Five minutes of speaking time per speaker!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u93	... to various technical agreements relating to air services, especially as they are constructed according to the same model. Indeed, as our colleague Claude Goasguen pointed out in committee, all the air agreements recently concluded are similar. Their clauses are very close, sometimes to the word. The signatory countries refer to a model convention established by the International Civil Aviation Organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u94	So what? How does this prevent us from discussing Ethiopia?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u95	The Republican Group, of which I am the speaker this afternoon, supports the adoption of these five conventions. However, we will not participate any longer in these endless discussions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u96	Five minutes isn't long!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u97	...which do not necessarily seem useful to us, and which in any case are far removed from the concerns of our fellow citizens, especially during this period of re-entry. I will take advantage of the time allocated to me this afternoon to talk about Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u98	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u99	We must allow the ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Afghanistan, on the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u100	That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u101	As the current situation reminds us, yesterday this country was hit by two violent attacks, which killed at least 48 people. One of the attacks took place during an election meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u102	You're not talking about the right text!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u103	Wait a few minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u104	This country has been at war for forty years. The presence of a coalition led by the United States for 18 years, in which our country participated widely until 2014, has – alas! – not allowed to modernise the country or reduce the threat posed by the Taliban and Daesh. The collapse of negotiations between the United States and the Taliban on 7 September is likely to plunge the country back into total chaos. A new civil war is not excluded. After the failure of these negotiations, it is essential that France, with the support of the European Union, seize international forums, including the United Nations, in an attempt to relaunch a process that will finally guarantee the Afghan people peace, as well as prospects for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u105	That's not the right text! This one has nothing to do with Afghanistan!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u106	We would like to make it clear that we will support all initiatives in this direction. We call them our best wishes. As I said earlier,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u107	He must have a train to catch!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u108	Dear colleague, I can measure the correctness of my remarks with your repeated interventions! As I said earlier, the Republican Group supports the international conventions which are on the agenda and will vote in favour of their ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u109	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u110	I would like to recall that, in the rostrum, his statement should be included as far as possible within the framework of the text under consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u111	Thank you, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u112	I won't do it, I'm warning you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u113	My colleague is little more courteous!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u114	The speaker should also be respected in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u115	Mr Herbillon's words were excessive!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u116	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u117	The text provides for France to accede to the so-called Lugano II Convention for its application to certain ultramarine territories. As the Secretary of State said earlier, it is important to devote a little time to this convention, even if we have studied it in depth in the committee. I will start with technical and general considerations. The ratification of the text concludes a long technical, legislative and regulatory path, which began in 2002.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u118	Mr. Herbillon will take his train... Goodbye!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u119	Mr. Hutin, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u120	On the other hand, I would like to point out that the bill received unanimous support in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It should be confirmed here. With regard to the development of our territories, the harmonisation of national legislation within the European framework makes no sense in the absence of national harmonisation of local rights, particularly in France. It presents a somewhat special situation, which distinguishes it from its European partners. Overseas territories are a specific case in the whole of Europe. It is necessary to claim their place. There is no point in having discussions like this, recalling the specificity of France in this regard. Several of the advantages of this Convention must be recalled here. There are many of them; I'll mention three of them. First of all, the good rule of law and the legal certainty that comes from it – recalled by several of our colleagues – will be a factor in the development of our territories, trade and their visibility among the neighbouring States, which I would remind you are very different from the neighbouring states of the metropolis. Secondly, their accession to the Lugano II Convention is a tool for their further development, enabling them to build on essential vectors, such as biodiversity, university cooperation, environmental protection, energy and sovereignty issues. Finally, let us not forget that these territories represent a strategic advantage for France and Europe, particularly in the context of the departure of the United Kingdom. The remote territories belonging to the latter may be affected by the possible lack of agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union. This is France's world mission, dear to the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. France also exports international law to all corners of the world. It's important to call him back here. I shall conclude, like our colleague Genetet, with a more personal observation. The Member of Parliament for French settled abroad that I am representing, along with others, the three million French in international mobility. The exequatur, I have a personal knowledge of it, not for divorce but for the minutes, and it works well: every PV drawn up in France arrives in my mailbox translated into Polish, and written on a letterhead of the French Republic! [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Above all, it is important to recall the importance of including in the national adventure the French scattered on the planet. It is necessary to link the territories covered by the text to Europe. The law and procedures for resolving disputes are one way to do so. The MODEM group will therefore vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u121	The general discussion is closed. On the single article, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u122	I would like to return to a subject raised by several speakers: the status of the outermost regions. I would like to point out that the OCTs are not third countries, but countries associated with the European Union, through one of its Member States. Their citizens are recognised as citizens of the European Union. With regard to the ORs, their status was consolidated by the Treaty of Lisbon, which was concluded in 2009. There are nine of them, six of which are French: Guyana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Mayotte, La Réunion and Saint-Martin. Together with the Azores, Madeira and the Canary Islands, they are associated with one of the three Member States concerned. The European Union does not abandon the outermost regions at all, particularly in financial matters. I would like to point out here that EUR 3.4 billion of European funds have been allocated, over the period 2014-2020, to the six French territories considered to be ORs, which demonstrates that the European Union is seeking to support the development of these regions very far from our coasts. It seemed important to me to provide that clarification. [[Mr. Frédéric Petit applause]] Moreover, in anticipation of the next budget for the period 2021-2027, my Spanish and Portuguese counterparts and I are conducting a very intensive and precise dialogue with the European Commission, in order to demonstrate our support for the economic, legal and cultural development of the ORs and to ensure that the people living there benefit from our solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u123	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u124	In explanation of vote, Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u125	Everyone will have understood that we are waging a form of struggle against what is like a delicacy of democracy in the House! Speakers' speaking time has increased from ten minutes to five minutes. I have therefore decided, as a representative of my group, responsible for this text, to say that we will be at the end of our fight. I will therefore explain why I will vote for the text. How long do I have to speak, Madam President?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u126	[[Smile]] As short as possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u127	Five minutes, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u128	So we'll have recovered the ten minutes we've been stolen! However, I will be kind and thank you for a great deal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u129	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u130	Our group will vote for the text. It deals with civil and commercial law. It is quite legitimate that we should be in favour of it. I referred earlier to the territory of the Wallis and Futuna Islands and the possibility for his rugby team to compete in an international competition, which I think is totally legitimate, in the case of a third country not recognised by the European Union. His last official match was in 1979! Moreover, its membership of France does not only have advantages. This country also houses flags of convenience. We can make fun of Jersey and Guernsey, but we also have flags of convenience in France. All of this is therefore very special. Why are we debating this today? If we do not debate it in this House, we are not debating anything! We are in a upuesque situation, with third States that are not recognised by the European Union, but with which France signs agreements to clarify certain points, which is not entirely normal! However, we will be happy to vote for the ratification of the agreement, as it is normal to extend provisions of civil and commercial law to these territories. This is a form of logic, which is part of the spirit of the one and indivisible Republic. I shall express a second regret. Our colleague from the Republicans Group left the Chamber after dealing with all the international conventions on the agenda and making it very clear that all this was worthless. I regret: we have the chance to have a chair who is trying to return a life to the Committee on Foreign Affairs; I therefore believe that all groups should support it. It is a great pity that our colleague has said the same thing. There is something essential here. We have the right to debate! Of course, this is the Fifth Republic! The President of the Republic decides and the Minister Le Drian plays his role. It has always been so. But we in our committee consider that we can debate what we want to debate. Having spoken three minutes and twenty-five seconds, I give Mr. Richard Ferrand a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u131	[[Smile]] Less than thirty seconds in excess of your speech in general discussion, dear colleague! Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u132	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The La République group on the move will vote, without any doubt or hesitation, to ratify the Convention. I will not go any further in my explanations of vote, because I would not like my speech to tarnish Mr Hutin's.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u133	Mr Philippe Dunoyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u134	In addition to what I have had the opportunity to say at the rostrum, to the Secretary of State, I would like to thank her for clarifying the conditions for considering that the French ORs will remain protected and accompanied by the European Union. I have no doubt about the effort that this one devotes to them. However, within the three categories of ultramarine territories which it recognizes, namely the African, Caribbean, Pacific and ACP countries, the ORs and the OCTs, I think I can say that it remains very much behind in terms of support for the OCTs, particularly in financial terms. The territories grouped under the acronym ACP are foreign countries, the ORs are – for six of them – French departments. Both categories receive support, in the form of funding and support, which is very welcome. However, I would like to draw your attention, Madam Secretary of State – without doubt your vigilance on this point – to the need not only to strengthen the multiannual financial framework under negotiation, but perhaps to change the status of the OCTs, particularly New Caledonia and French Polynesia. Everyone, of course, is free to change it, but it is a demand that exists in our territories. After Brexit, France will be the only European state present in the Pacific Ocean. We do not ask for special praise, but our territories deserve stronger support. Once again, I welcome the commitment and effectiveness of the Government, and the IDU and Independents Group will vote unanimously on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u135	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u136	[[Christian Hutin applauds]] On behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, I express my solidarity with Christian Hutin. With his mouth – forgive me this French expression – he said well that we must not accept that the expression of the people's representatives should be annihilated by this new regulation. Our group, like the Socialist and related group, will use all the means at its disposal to make the voice of the people heard in this House. We are Members of Parliament who are equal to the others. But, in opposition to the President of the Republic, a tougher battle had to be waged; Our seats have been won in high struggle, and those who have elected us expect us to do everything to make us their spokespersons, to make their lives known.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u138	Our group agrees with the arguments put forward by Moetai Brotherson and, like him, we will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u139	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u140	The territories concerned have given their consent; This is not enough, since we represent the whole of France, but it is a good starting point for a positive vote. We will be careful, by the way, to realize – if we did not already know – the misunderstanding in the European institutions of the ORs, as they say – very badly about the fact that these regions are only seen from the outermost regions of the Old Continent. They are borders of France, and are therefore as central to us as any other part of the territory. I don't discuss this word without intent. Many see these territories as extravagances; I sometimes hear about "the confetti of the empire." No! They are territories of the French Republic, with democratically elected local assemblies. We're happy with the way things are going, or we're not, but it exists. It was hardly necessary, two years ago, for almost all the budget allocated to the ORs to be handed over to the common pot, because of the absolute incomprehension by the other countries of the European Union of the nature of these territories and their importance for France. There are two lessons to learn from all this: on the one hand, France is a universalist nation, as evidenced by its presence at the gates of all continents; On the other hand, the ORs must be subject to special vigilance. I am sure that you have all been happy to hear that the MEP, the vigilant guardian of the rights of the ORs, Younous Omarjee, was the new chairman of the Committee on Regional Development in the European Parliament, where all the budgets of all the regions of Europe will be discussed. It will be for us French – on an equal footing with others, of course, since the president is everyone's – a guarantee that we will no longer forget the importance of these territories. We will never tell the French enough that it is along Guyana that our country's longest border is with another country. It's often believed to be the German border. No, no, no, no, no, The neighbouring country with which we have the longest border is Brazil – even if it took us twenty years to build the road that leads to the bridge crossing the Oyapock River, which is still not finished... [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] All of this therefore concerns us very directly. The La France insoumise group will vote for this text. It's not usual, so I thought you'd be interested in the reasons for this approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u141	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u142	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 62 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u143	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u144	Thank you all for your support. Mr Mélenchon, it is always good news to see French people, regardless of their political colour, take responsibilities in the European Parliament to defend matters of importance, in this case the development of regions, wherever they may be. I have already had the pleasure of meeting this new committee chair, and we have started working together. Mr Dunoyer, I took stock of the budget allocated to the ORs because this point was raised in the debates. We were talking today about the OCTs. On this point, we are working to secure the budget; As far as the status is concerned, it will take a long time. Few Member States are involved in the issue, which makes the European discussion more complex. But we understand the difference between the different statutes and the efforts we must make. Mr Mélenchon, I would like to say again that the territories we were talking about today are not the nine ORs but the OCTs, associated with the European Union. These are complex subjects, but they deserve our full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u145	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part (No. 1689, 2020).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u146	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u147	This day is not an ordinary day to evoke the cooperation between the European Union and Afghanistan, since, most recently, we commemorated the centenary of the country's independence, or rather the centenary of Afghanistan's resumption of control over its external relations. It is an anniversary that resonates with a busy, sometimes painful news, because we have still deplored victims in attacks that occurred yesterday and in the last few days. France and Afghanistan are two great nations, with a rich history, with a culture of tremendous vitality. Our partnerships have continued to grow since the turn of 1919. As early as 1922, we signed an agreement; Afghan youth came to our home immediately, and among them were a future king, a future prime minister, and many personalities. In France was born a passion for Afghanistan; I think of Alain Daniélou, Clara and André Malraux, so many archaeologists. The more recent period has seen many French people invest in Afghanistan, particularly in humanitarian action – for example, the NGO Acted was born in that country, and today still supports nearly 3.6 million Afghans. Finally, I have a special thought for the sons and daughters of France who shed their blood in Afghanistan. Ninety of them, alas, have perished on this earth. This bilateral relationship leaves neither the Afghans nor the French indifferent. This bill authorizing the ratification of the cooperation agreement between the European Union, its Member States and Afghanistan is an important step. Your rapporteur has put it perfectly in committee, and I have taken note with great interest of the debates in your committee. The first benefit of this agreement is to structure the dialogue between our two entities. Europe has, of course, been very active in Afghanistan for the last 40 years mainly through protiform actions, but this agreement draws up a framework, a methodology: a joint committee, working groups on a range of subjects... It is thus a formalised dialogue that is emerging. I agree with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who said at the meeting of your committee that we cannot leave the Afghans alone with such or such power. Europe and France also have a duty to foster an inter-Afghan dialogue, which is a prerequisite for building a solid future to which Afghans are entitled as well as others. This agreement is therefore indispensable. Some were able to point out shortcomings in relation to the expectations of the Afghans themselves; But this is a considerable step forward with regard to the joint political declaration, which was the only document that we had at our disposal. We are now undertaking, I repeat, a structured approach; we can talk together about peace, security, fundamental rights, equality between men and women... Some have wondered about this partner who has poor control of his own territory. But it is with the legal and legitimate authorities that we need to discuss. In a few days, the Afghan people will have to vote for a President of the Republic, and I have seen that the constitutional issues have not escaped the attention of your committee. Subsidiarity is an essential concept, which is not only Western, and which allows us to understand the extreme diversity and wealth of this people. This is what I wanted to bring to your attention; These few considerations will have shown you the importance of this agreement. We are naturally conducting bilateral actions, we are leading this action at European level, and the international community continues to be at the side of the Afghans: yesterday again, it voted on resolution 24-89, which renews for a year the United Nations assistance mission to Afghanistan. This will contribute to its security, particularly in future elections. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We can thus say, on this day, that yes, in France, we love freedoms, contradictions, synthesises, and that is why, I believe, we also deeply love Afghanistan and the Afghan people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u149	Mrs Nicole Trisse, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u150	First of all, I would like to thank you, Secretary of State, for the opening remarks you have just made. They touch me deeply, because you have referred to the very content of this report, which is crucial. Afghanistan is currently facing a particularly critical situation, in a highly degraded security environment. According to a report from the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, 2018 was the most deadly year ever recorded for Afghan civilians: 3,804 people were killed, and he is afraid that this number will increase this year. Most of these deaths are attributable to abuses by Taliban insurgent groups. They are active in 40% to 50% of the territory, and continue to carry out large-scale offensives. As you said yesterday, Secretary of State, two attacks were carried out in Kabul, while President Ghani, a candidate for his re-election, was holding a meeting. Forty-four civilian deaths are currently being reported. About ten days ago, NATO lost two of its soldiers in another attack, which resulted in several casualties, including dozens of casualties. Another group, the wilaya Khorassan, a branch of Daesh in Afghanistan created in 2015, also has a particularly high nuisance capacity. It is currently working to increase its strength through the relocation of foreign fighters from the Levant, including jihadists from Central Asia, several hundred of whom have already joined Afghanistan. It currently has between 2500 and 4000 active fighters, who also carry out attacks: let it be sufficient to recall the particularly deadly attack of 17 August, which hit the Shiite community hard by causing the death of at least sixty-three people and wounding 182 others at a wedding ceremony. It is therefore no exaggeration to say that Afghanistan is currently facing a precarious political situation. The next presidential election, which the country's authorities are trying to organise, will be an important but delicate democratic moment. After two postponements, the vote is now set for 28 September. Moreover, the US President brutally ended the United States peace talks with the Taliban some 10 days ago. In particular, it appears that discussions have taken place on the issue of the continued existence of the American "terrorist force" on Afghan soil, rejected by the insurgents. The failure of these negotiations, which corresponded to Donald Trump's campaign promise to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan, is in addition to the long list of failed peace attempts since 2001. As far as peace negotiations are concerned, inter-Afghan dialogue is, in our view, a prerequisite that the Americans have, unfortunately, neglected far too much. In the framework of the agreement between the European Union and Afghanistan, it is rightly stated that peace must be established by the Afghans themselves. We therefore need to promote and support inter-Afghan dialogue, if we are to help that country rebuild and recover in a sustainable manner. Thus, in this particularly difficult context, this agreement between the European Union, its Member States and Afghanistan appears to be an opportunity to provide timely support to the good will of that country, which seeks to bring Afghanistan back on the path of stability. This tool, signed in Munich on 18 February 2017, is the first ever treaty relationship between the Union and Afghanistan. It replaces a joint declaration adopted in 2005 and reflects the common will of both sides to strengthen and expand dialogue and partnership. It is a matter of redefining the European Union's relations with that country. The text aims to provide a new legal framework for this partnership with the objectives of strengthening its political dimension and overcoming the mere role of funder. The European Union has provided EUR 3.7 billion in support to Afghanistan since 2001. In addition to bilateral aid from its Member States, Europe appears to be the second largest donor to Afghanistan, behind the United States, with an amount of EUR 5.3 billion. The European Union, whose armed forces of several Member States have been or are still present in the country, thus has unquestionable political legitimacy but which, unfortunately, has not yet materialized in practice. Hence the value of this framework agreement, which builds on the four pillars of the new EU strategy towards Afghanistan. This is the promotion of regional peace, stability and security; strengthening democracy, the rule of law and human rights, promoting good governance and the empowerment of women; support for the economic and human development of Afghanistan; Finally, I would like to say a word about migration issues a little later. This instrument, which does not add any new financial implications, I would like to say, is both unbinding and ambitious. It aims to create an inclusive relationship with Afghanistan, by developing political cooperation – the fight against terrorism, the proliferation of arms and drugs, support for the protection of human rights – in economic matters – for trade and investment – and, in a sectoral way, in the areas of justice, energy, transport, health and education. This agreement also addresses migration issues, which are a central topic of the new EU strategy for Afghanistan. The agreement is expected to contribute to the implementation of a joint political declaration on this subject adopted in 2016. As a reminder, Afghans currently represent the second nationality, behind Syrians, in terms of asylum applications collected in the European Union in 2019, and the first for asylum applications in France. As for migration issues, it is not a matter of accelerating the return of the rejected Afghans to their country, as could have been said or written here or there. Rather, it is a matter of considering a dignified return, and in the best security conditions, for those who are not destined to stay in Europe. In order to achieve this, it is planned to work with civil society associations, in order to measure and control migration flows, to ensure good asylum conditions for refugees, but also to ensure that persons who do not meet the criteria for protection can return without fear to their country and live there again. I recall that more than 65% of Afghan asylum seekers who made their first application in France received a positive response. Finally, this agreement contains only a few binding provisions, but it is intended to provide a general framework for relations between the European Union and Afghanistan. It will then have to be converted into more binding sectoral agreements. It should also make it possible to fill the Union's visibility gap in Afghanistan and to strengthen the involvement of the Union and its Member States in the peace talks. I would point out that, at this stage, Afghanistan, together with 16 Member States of the European Union, have already completed their internal ratification process. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote fully in favour of the ratification of this framework agreement, which will give a new dimension to the Union's relationship with Afghanistan, which will strengthen the European Union's position in the framework of the peace negotiations and which will, I hope, help Afghanistan to develop and finally emerge from the spiral of violence that has been tearing the country apart for more than forty years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I will conclude by adding that after the failure of the dialogue between the United States and the Taliban, this agreement represents a real alternative, capable of supporting a peace process.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u151	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u152	For exactly forty years, Afghanistan has been in an extremely critical security situation. Yesterday's attacks in Kabul have demonstrated this again. In addition, as Nicole Trisse pointed out in her very good report, the relocation of foreign fighters from the Levant to Afghanistan will obviously strengthen Daesh's subsidiary in Afghanistan. This is another major risk to the security of the country. Afghanistan is also in an extremely difficult political situation. After two postponements, the presidential election should be held at the end of September, and we all hope that we can help bring peace and stability back to the country. Despite the support of the international community, Afghanistan is still one of the least developed countries, suffering from the enormous burden of drug trafficking in its economy. The country is the world's leading producer of opium poppy, the main source of heroin consumed in Europe, and all attempts to put an end to these crops have so far failed. After the failure of direct negotiations between the United States and the Taliban, the European Union must reinvest itself in Afghanistan and give itself the political means to weigh itself, in the future, in the Afghan peace process. That is one of the reasons for this framework agreement. A possible enlarged European mediation initiative – why not? – to the great neighbours of this region, must necessarily involve all Afghan parties – central and insurgent government. But there will be a chance of success only if Afghan civil society is fully involved in the talks, which so far has not been the case. That's what many Afghan elected women have come to tell me that I have received,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u153	That we received!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u154	... on your behalf, before this summer: that's the message they asked me to convey to you. Inter-Afghan dialogue is a prerequisite for achieving peace and stability in Afghanistan. This country is a real ethnic mosaic, mixing on its territory various peoples – Pashtuns, Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras, Turkmens... I believe, for my part, that in the long term, only a federal approach will allow everyone to feel heard and respected. The ties France has with Afghanistan, as you recalled, Secretary of State, are old and particularly strong. Our bilateral relationship began ninety-seven years ago. We are and remain a major and faithful partner of Afghanistan. I would like to recall here, as you did, that France paid the blood price for the freedom of Afghanistan as part of its military commitment: ninety of our soldiers fell into combat on Afghan soil, and the ambush of the Ouzbine Valley, where we lost ten of our men, in 2008, is still, I am sure, in our memory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Today, we have the opportunity to renew and intensify cooperation between the European Union and Afghanistan, and to act to help Afghanistan rebuild itself and face many challenges, be they migration issues, drug trafficking or the fight against terrorism. It is therefore a positive signal that Afghanistan will find hope for its future as soon as possible. That is why I call on you to vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u155	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u156	The subject owes us a special sincerity. The French commitment to Afghanistan requires us to say what we think, out of respect for those who, having obeyed it, died – we lost eighty-nine soldiers on the spot –; they are still suffering, because they are alive but wounded – we can meet them at the National Hotel of Invalides. Therefore, everything I have to say, I say it first by greeting the families of the dead, as well as those who have suffered, and by expressing my respect to them. That being said, since the first day, I have affirmed my absolute opposition to this war in Afghanistan, of which I did not believe for a moment that it was what was said about it. The Americans have entered this country with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO – which is no shortage of salt, since this country has no borders on the North Atlantic! – to punish the perpetrators of the 11 September attack. Those who knew a little about the file knew it wasn't possible. Indeed, it could not be believed that the attack had been organized from Afghanistan and elsewhere, Mr.Ben Laden, whom the authorities at the time had proposed to give to American justice, was finally captured in Pakistan. It's clear he wasn't where we were going to find him. This is not the only reason: the French knew that the English and the Americans had been training for two months already, and had pre-positioned forces in the region. Therefore, the attack was not the cause of the intervention; He's been used in some way as a pretext. The essential object then at stake was a policy of bypassing Russia in the installation of a pipeline. Talks had been very much initiated between the American oil tankers, embodied by the Unocal Company, and the Afghan government. At the time, a diplomat I knew told me: "Mr Mélenchon, even if you love shoe merchants, what would you say if seventeen of the twenty ministers of the French government were shoe merchants? That's what happens to us! Out of twenty ministers, more than fifteen are American oil tankers. It was in this atmosphere that the special representative of Unocal was appointed by George W. Bush to lead the negotiations; Mr. Bush himself had a relationship with Unocal, and Afghan President Hamid Karzai, if I remember correctly, was a consultant. To understand the war in Afghanistan, one must follow the pipeline – this is not the only war that has no reason to be but to accompany or prepare the passage of a pipeline or pipeline. I recall that the war in Afghanistan has been in theory won since 17 December 2001, when the United States of America announced its victory. Of course, we all know, it is not. Presidential elections took place – yes, let's call it presidential elections... In 2009, while Mr. Karzai was a candidate for re-election, there was a risk in the second round that he would not be re-elected; Everything had then been blocked, until the second candidate withdrew his candidacy, so that Mr. Karzai would remain the only candidate. This year, the elections, scheduled to take place on 20 April, were postponed to 20 July and then 28 September. But there was, during a meeting, this abominable attack, a killing to which one cannot get used when one follows these events a little, which one looks at, which one understands is, each time, mass murders of an indescribable savagery. It must be said that, in this respect, the United States is a very curious example. Does one person here remember that the United States of America has experienced in Afghanistan the largest conventional bomb – so non-nuclear – ever drawn from the whole history of humanity? This bomb thrown at Afghanistan had an equivalent destructive power to that of Hiroshima. And no one has spoken anywhere about the reasons why such a weapon had been thrown at the Afghans, or about the results that were expected – and that have certainly not been brilliant since, again, the three-quarters of the territory are not controlled by anyone, that is, they are subject to rival gangs that constitute the opposition to the power in place. It is in this context that we are considering a free trade agreement. A free trade agreement with Afghanistan seems quite extraordinary! As a matter of principle, my group is already against free trade. If we believe that cooperation allows for proper work, we do not believe in free trade. It is based on the assumption that, as long as the goods circulate, everything is fine. No! It is always the most powerful that ends up winning and crushing local productions. I wonder what the Afghans intend to sell us... What I know is that Afghanistan, whose drug production had been eradicated, again became the world's leading drug producer during the period of North American occupation. This culture was carried out before the eyes of the American army, in fact within what it referred to as "secure areas". So here we are with a free trade agreement, and I would like to say very quietly to my colleagues who are going to vote for this agreement...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u157	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not a free trade agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u158	It's the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u159	No, not at all! This is a framework agreement!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u160	It's not the same...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u161	Yes, it's the same! In any case, this is my analysis: it is a free trade agreement, the umpteenth of its kind. It is a "partnership and development cooperation agreement" between the European Union and Afghanistan: by force of events, it is a free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u162	No! The agreement has implications for development...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u163	Wait, I'll go into detail! However, colleagues need to know that in the area of trade, it is a free trade agreement. Moreover, in the area of trade, the European Union has never been able to sign anything other than free trade agreements. Now, since the Secretary of State is impatiently inviting me to do so – I see it well – I also want to tell you that the rest does not smell better. Article 4 promotes human rights: it is perfect, since they have no reality in Afghanistan, since the Constitution itself is under the influence of religion. There is a council that examines each law in accordance with its religion. The first human rights issue is freedom of conscience. It does not exist in this country. Of course, I regret it. Not that there should be no religion, or that a legislator should not be able to draw inspiration from what his personal religion suggests; But when religion becomes the basis of a state's constitution, it is then a theocracy. Therefore, there is no freedom of conscience, so human rights do not exist. Article 5 promotes equality between women and men. Good, you can always make a long wish list. But the Assembly has the right to know that, under current Afghan legislation, husbands, for example, can refuse care and food to their wives if they refuse to have sex with them. Similarly, a woman must obtain permission from a male authority to open a bank account. Neither can a woman receive an inheritance. In vain, I will be told that these are regulations related to religion – or rather to a particular interpretation of religion, the most ferocious one that takes place there. Article 24 promotes the rule of law. All we have to do is observe: how can we talk about a rule of law for a country in which a foreign power can conduct its weapons tests? From Article 1, we are invited to remove barriers to trade. Barriers to trade with Afghanistan? This is something extraordinary enough to be stressed! Article 13 sets out the rules of the World Trade Organization, the WTO. And you'd like us to vote that? Article 20 invites us to facilitate the movement of capital: well, not me! I do not agree with the fact that Afghan capital flows, since much of it is criminal in origin. Article 37 deals with the exploitation of natural resources: everyone understands that it is a matter of ensuring respect for the freedom of trade and all that goes with, in other words, the right of Americans to take what they like in this country, since, although they have won the war for 18 years now, they are still there 14000 in arms. We, French, paid dearly to accompany them in this adventure that made no sense. I say this for colleagues who are very interested in this issue – that is the case for those who are in the Chamber: we have never known who we were fighting. They were sometimes rebels, sometimes Taliban, sometimes insurgents... But who were we fighting? They were never specifically appointed. In the past, apart from oil and weapons testing – we have ourselves fired a lot of ammunition, equivalent to €1.3 million a day; Of course, the equipment works, but no one has ever told us about the record of the use of such sophisticated equipment for the bombing of simple caves, huts and trenches – there was a subsidy hunt. It should be noted that the money spent on a single day of war in Afghanistan would have been enough to feed and educate all Afghan children. A report presented to the European Parliament, which was still fresh in my memory since I was a member of the committee responsible, stated that 85% of the money invested or given to Afghanistan to help it, particularly for its reconstruction, actually returned to "the West" – that is, the occupying countries, and their personnel present on the spot. This poor country has therefore functioned as a pump, feeding financial circuits with money for which it has never had the benefit. This will not prevent me, of course, from paying tribute to the work carried out there by ours: the restoration of the French high school and these other beautiful things that some poor people are trying to maintain in working order. Let us return to our starting point: the Russians entered Afghanistan as NATO allies entered Iran with the help of Saddam Hussein. At the time, it was feared that the triumph of the Islamic Republic of Iran would lead to the collapse of the entire system of the area. The Russians have been beaten by the Afghan resistance, which is such that no one has ever defeated it, neither the English nor the Americans nor anyone else. All those who went through it have been beaten, for a good reason: one cannot force people to impose a regime they do not want. After that, the Americans maintained Al-Qaeda, an organization that changed its name several times. In Arabic, Al-Qaeda means "the base": the Al-Qaeda base and Mr.Ben Laden are NATO creatures fighting against Russia. From there, and as always in these confused situations where everyone comes for their own reasons to fight – and goes back with them – the situation has degenerated to the point that Al-Qaeda has become the monster that everyone remembers, until the execution of its founder – without the political force thus founded ever being dissolved. Today, those who have been defeated in Syria return to Afghanistan, where many had passed before for instruction. Unfortunately, we can imagine that the war will again take a turn that I do not think we are able to respond to with such processes. I confess that if I were to say by what end to take such a situation, I would be as embarrassed as you, Secretary of State. Everyone is, by the way, as far as this country is concerned. But it is certain that the wars that are waged there do not lead anywhere: keeping puppets on the spot leads us, in the end, to consent to unbearable things. Afghanistan's new Constitution had been drafted by a customary religious assembly, which had decided on the rules of the country's political organization. What are we doing in there? We must leave this people in peace. We have to let him deal with his own situation as he wants, and then see with whom we can talk – on condition, of course, that people who end up supernaging have a minimum of legitimacy. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] As long as we believe we can make legitimacy from the outside, we'll get nothing in this corner. We, French, paid dearly: eighty-nine dead! We had up to 5000 soldiers on the spot, because President Nicolas Sarkozy wanted us to be very dignified in the battle – so that we had the most rotten corner of Afghanistan, all over there, at the bottom, where the English were settled in their own war, from which they returned cahin-caha, two-thirds of their troops having been murdered along the way! That's what we did. In conclusion, I reiterate my gratitude to the French fighters and I repeat that we are not settling anything. For my part, I will not vote for something that does not correspond to anything I believe in. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] One last word, Secretary of State: take care of the translators of the French army. It is not normal for them to have been abandoned in this way. Only a few of them have been granted the right of asylum. If people deserve the right to asylum, it is the substitutes who have helped our forces on the spot, who are threatened with death and who live in wandering, on the street, with terrified children and with families who have sometimes stayed along the way. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Paul Lecoq applauds]] Mr Secretary of State, I am sure that I have the consent of my colleagues to ask you: pity on our translators.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u164	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is for Mrs Anne Genetet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u165	I listened to your speech, Mr Mélenchon, but I do not share your reading of the text: it is not a free trade agreement, but a framework agreement, which therefore encourages the parties to engage in a specific framework. I'd be surprised if you didn't approve of this statement that doesn't belong to me: "Migration challenges will only be met through solidarity, determination and collective efforts. This is a quote from Amnesty International. The agreement aims precisely at creating solidarity, determination and collective efforts. If that's your fear, I'm going to sweep it right away: it's not a trade agreement or a free trade agreement. It is a matter of agreement on four points: peace; Good governance, the rule of law and human rights; economic development; migration. At the end of your remarks, you suggested that you would prefer to let the Afghans fall, let them do it on their own. This is not our understanding of solidarity, of determination, of collective efforts. With regard to migration challenges in particular, I would like to point out that Afghanistan has 37 million inhabitants, which accounts for half of France's population. However, there are nearly 10 million refugees, including in Pakistan, where there are reportedly 1.7 million refugees, and in Iran, where these refugees are currently in hiding. Some are returned to Afghanistan under very difficult conditions. Within the country itself, more than 2 million people are displaced for reasons related to the conflict but also to climate change, to the drought to which Afghanistan is widely exposed. Article 28, referred to by some, merely seeks to encourage the parties to reach a specific agreement rather than to leave things in a complete blur. Finally, I would like to say that France protects Afghans on their soil. They represent a majority of asylum seekers and 72% of them...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u166	Dear colleague, your speaking time, which was two minutes, has expired. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u167	I would like to associate myself with the remarks made by Jean-Luc Mélenchon, particularly with regard to the tribute to the soldiers. After 18 August 2008, on behalf of our Assembly and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, I had the opportunity to visit their brothers in arms, especially those who had suffered the ambush of Ouzbine. At the time, representatives of all the groups of the National Assembly had visited the site. It was important that we go there, not only to show our solidarity, but also to understand the reality of the situation in Afghanistan, which is far from simple. It was necessary to take several minutes to describe it. In his motion of prior rejection, Jean-Luc Mélenchon analysed the situation well, which cannot be done by speaking with one word of the proposals contained in this treaty. The situation is too subtle and the treaty too weak, given the powerful response we owe to the Afghan people. We should not support such trade treaties. The answer to be given in Afghanistan is quite different. If the treaty related, for example, to the education of Afghan girls,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u168	What's that got to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u169	...maybe it could change society over time. We cannot advocate equal rights for women and men in our countries and cannot support, with strength and means, the idea that the future of Afghanistan will be able to shine a little happier thanks to its women. Therefore, we will vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u170	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u171	I do not understand why my colleague from the La République group is angry with me. As I said, I am convinced that those who will vote in favour of this text believe that they are doing well. But I think I'm doing good too! I think I'm doing the right thing by saying what I think. It's a good start. You're telling me this isn't a free trade agreement. I can still read! Article 1 calls for the removal of obstacles to movement... Article 20 speaks of WTO rules as a model. It aims to facilitate the movement of capital and Article 37, the exploitation of natural resources. If this is not a free trade agreement! It's one of them. In any case, it is a framework for this agreement to be put in place. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] You want to facilitate the movement of capital. Which ones? In Afghanistan, drug production has increased by 67 per cent over the past five years. The money that will come out of it is dirty money. It's the crime money. I do not agree that capital flows freely between Afghanistan and the rest of the world. We have the right to disagree, though! Some think it's better if it circulates. No! We think the opposite, and we explained it to you. All this deserves better than good intentions. No one can believe that it is enough to announce that we all want to love each other and get along so that the thing is said. That's not the case. We're talking about a 6000-day North American presence. The Americans have remained in Afghanistan longer than outside their borders during the last two world conflicts. It's not nothing as a commitment! They spent $900 billion, more than the Marshall Plan. And look at the state of this country. There's something going on there that deserves us to say, when we come back to play the flute: no, we've already given for it. In this regard, I have spoken of the ninety French people who have died. I also want to think about the 3,539 NATO soldiers and the 60,000 regular Afghan army soldiers who have also died. They also exist these poor devils! There is no count of the deaths of civilians that would amount to more than 200,000, which is not nothing. For all these reasons, the members of the La France insoumée group will vote on the motion. We ask you not to be angry with us. This vote is not directed against you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u172	In the general debate, Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement carries within it the flaws of a European diplomacy which, in essence, fails to play the role which should be its own: a role of impulse, mediation and proposal in the international game. Did she ever play it? I leave the question open, but you can imagine the answer I give him. Afghanistan has become the site of cross-influences from countries such as the United States, Russia, China, Iran or Pakistan. The European Union, which is the country's second largest donor, shines by its absence from the table of various peace initiatives. It would have been hoped that an ambitious agreement would have been reached towards the consolidation of a rule of law that was still ravaged by corruption and that promoted an Afghan civil society that was too unheard of. In fact, this agreement demonstrates, once again, the blindness of a European Union that is delusional when it thinks of developing a country by acting on the well-known lever of economic liberalism. It should be understood that this lever lowers, that it does not raise. So let us beware of the temptation of ventriloquia: our diplomacy being rendered silent by its passivity, we would like to satisfy ourselves with an economic instrument whose melody is as sweet for some as it is bitter for those to whom we play it. After the invasion of 2001, Afghanistan became, like many countries in the South, a testing ground for neoliberal capitalist accumulation. And, to the tragedy of our military intervention in the coalition, which has profoundly damaged the country and compromised its future, we must overlay the perhaps equally deadly consequences of our economic predation. By weakening state structures, encouraging privatization, we have helped to weaken a power with which we have so much difficulty in dialogue today. Let us not be mistaken: Afghanistan is a country full of natural riches. In 2009, the United States Institute for Geological Studies estimated the potential value of its deposits at some $1,000 billion: rare metals, precious stones, gas, oil. The country is sitting on a treasure that we are about to confiscate. The ritournelle is known and it is in this agreement. Of course, it is not a free trade agreement such as the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, the one with Mercosur, or the free trade agreement between Japan and the European Union, says JEFTA.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u174	Thank you for saying it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u175	But it's the same! Mr. Mélenchon is right. It is the same logic behind this text. Listen to the little wretch! We have read the text. Article 1 refers to the improvement of market access conditions. Article 13 refers to the removal of trade barriers that are not compatible with WTO rules. Article 20 deals with the movement of capital. What else is that?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u176	Everything else!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u177	These words stain, because they come to cover all the others who are indeed laudable, Mr Secretary of State, and who are the ones I have heard in your remarks: development, rights, equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u178	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u179	Thinking about EU-Afghanistan trade relations within the WTO alone will always mean weakening the country's local economy, thereby undermining all efforts to support education and civil society. That is what we must understand: words become hollow because they are shattered on the wall of liberal and capitalist logic. I come to the issue of Afghan refugees. While "Afghanistan is one of the countries most affected by terrorism in the world", according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, the prospect of readmission agreements between the European Union and Afghanistan seems unacceptable to us. The war, in which France participated, created the conditions for chaos and ubiquitous violence. Two attacks left at least 48 people dead yesterday. Refusing to regard Afghanistan as a country at war is an insult to the thousands of civilian and military casualties that have been recorded only in the past six months. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We believe that this text, given its logic, will not allow for better development or genuine support. We will therefore not be able to vote on it as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u180	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment in Le Havre, citizens are gathered in memory of Johanna, murdered on Monday by her ex-compagnon, in the middle of the street and in front of her children's eyes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u183	The Havarese and Havarese have chosen to gather today and they are in communion, wherever they may be, with Johanna's children, family and friends. I have chosen to associate myself with them, at this moment, to make their voices and demands resonate here, so that we may take full measure of this so-called "femicide" scourge, in order to respond to this urgency to act otherwise than in words. I come back to the text that is proposed to us. The end of the conflict between the Taliban and the Afghan State is one of the greatest challenges to peace in the world. Yet we have here, as if nothing were happening, a partnership agreement between Afghanistan and the European Union. This agreement is not worthy of the seriousness of the situation. The reason is simple and it holds in two points. First of all, Communist MEPs are, in principle, against this type of agreement, the only objective of which is to increase European exports. It hides poorly the awkward ambition of the European Union to do business by slipping into the virtue of human rights. It seems to us that, rather than working towards the lasting resolution of conflicts, the European Union is using these agreements to make it accept its economic location. The urgency in Afghanistan is not to import European goods and services, but to avoid a third civil war. If the Communist Members were cynical, they would be content with the fact that this agreement is good for the European Union and for France, without considering the fate of Afghanistan. But we're not. We are therefore opposed to this agreement, because it is bad for Afghans and offers no solution to a major crisis. The equation that will bring this country out of the crisis it is going through is very complex, but its resolution deserves to be tried. Here are the unknowns of the equation to be mastered in emergency. First, Afghanistan produces 85 per cent of the world's heroin stock. Many Afghan citizens benefit from it, enabling them to survive. Secondly, it is the Taliban, a terrorist organization carrying out a fierce war against the central Afghan state, who largely draw the strings of this very lucrative trade for those who organize it. Thirdly, the organization of the Afghan State, imposed by the West, is too centralized and does not seem to correspond to the social organization of the country: Afghanistan is divided into tribes and valleys, traversed by often impassable mountains that prevent the emergence of a true national feeling. The form of this State helps to maintain its problems. As the Chair of the Commission has indicated, Afghanistan should ideally take the form of a confederation that unites several nations, several valleys, several peoples. Instead, the presence of the central state is sometimes perceived as a violence fuelling the resistance of the Taliban and the structural weakness of the Afghan state apparatus. Thus, rather than "promoting the removal of barriers to trade, including the timely removal of non-tariff barriers and trade restrictions [...]", as provided for in article 13 of the text, or "encouraging the establishment of an attractive and stable investment environment", as advocated in article 18, it would be preferable to promote the regeneration of the economy by the State, so that agriculture, or other sectors, become more profitable than poppy cultivation. This equation is certainly very difficult to solve. But the fight against poppy production would certainly restore economic activity, particularly agricultural activity, useful to the country and its inhabitants, as well as diminish the influence of the Taliban within that State by reducing their control over poppy growers and reducing their financial resources. Finally, it would allow us to reflect on the future of this State, at a time when the presidential campaign, in preparation for the elections on 28 September, has already experienced a first attack. This agreement with the European Union therefore totally misses its target and demonstrates how peace does not seem to be a European diplomatic objective. Rather than sending diplomats to the four corners of the world to draft trade agreements, made-up in this way, we should, as I believe and as Françoise Hostalier, former minister and former Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u184	Excellent congresswoman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u185	... explained in the newspaper La Croix last Monday that the European Union and France are more supportive of the establishment of an intra-Afghan dialogue under the aegis of the United Nations and not just a bilateral dialogue between the United States and Afghanistan. The European Union would honour itself in bringing its stone to the peace building rather than to the trade building. The Communists will therefore vote against this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u186	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u187	Mrs. Genetet, you're not going to reprimand me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u188	Mr Minister, I listened to your presentation of this cooperation agreement on partnership and development between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, on the other. This agreement was signed in February 2017 by the European Heads of State and now requires the ratification of national parliaments and some regional parliaments. It is the result of almost four years of negotiations between 2011 and 2015. It is a rich, dense, deep text covering a considerable number of areas, which reflects the equally considerable needs of this country. The scope and symbolism of this text is far from neutral, as this is the first contractual relationship between the European Union and Afghanistan. This country is very far from us by its distance, by its culture, by its geography, by its level of development, but so important in the great balances of the world! In June 2018, the European Parliament had transmitted to the Council a long resolution detailing the expectations of the European representation – that is, of the European peoples, of ourselves – with regard to the implementation of this agreement. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to read this long resolution: we learn a lot about this country, about its strengths, about its weaknesses, about what is threatening it – but also about the opportunity that is open to it. Because Afghanistan has a major opportunity; It is a question of Europe, without any doubt. We know how volatile the situation in that country is. Bloody attacks are taking place regularly, as my colleague Mrs Nicole Trisse reminded us – again yesterday. The state is failing and the economy, barely in its infancy, is undermined by trafficking of all kinds, the country being a hub and a gateway, particularly to Europe. In this context, this agreement sought by the Member States of the European Union is a hand stretched to the Afghan people, an illustration of our ability to act in the service of peace and development, in accordance with our values. What is the object? Ladies and gentlemen, to ratify this agreement is to lay down a clear legal framework within which cooperation between the two sides will be established. Ratifying this agreement also means strengthening the relationship between the European Union and Afghanistan by extending it to new areas of cooperation. I shall mention only three of them, which constitute absolute emergencies: the exchange of information in the context of the fight against terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and money-laundering. This agreement will make it possible to carry out these urgent and indispensable actions. Ratifying this agreement means finally supporting the four pillars of Europe's strategy in Afghanistan: promoting peace, security and stability in the country; strengthen democracy, the rule of law and the defence of human rights, including, of course, equality between women and men; supporting economic development; Finally, to meet the migration challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u189	There's work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u190	The reasons why this agreement needs our attention have already been recalled by my colleague Nicole Trisse: the European Union has been present in the country for more than forty years and has already invested nearly €3.7 billion to help it consolidate – including €72 million dedicated specifically to supporting Afghan migrants. Moreover, it is the second largest donor in the country, after the United States, and has engaged armed forces from several Member States, including Germany, Italy and Romania. Finally, it has so far, unfortunately, had only an insignificant role in the peace process. Europe is far too wiped out. The European Union's support for Afghanistan is therefore now more necessary than ever. If we're not there, who else could go? Who could threaten this country and this region of the world? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, this text has no new financial implications and is not very binding. But at a time when President Trump decides to put an abrupt end to talks he had launched in Doha with the Taliban, the ratification of this agreement is an important signal stressing that the European Union and France are reliable and constant partners in their commitment to peace and reconciliation. We are already proving this on the issue of Afghanistan's great neighbour to the west, Iran. I call on you today to prove this by voting unreservedly in favour of the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u191	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u192	Afghanistan is in great pain. We know all the difficulties that the country has had to overcome since its independence, especially since the fall of the Taliban regime. Many contours of the international relations and lines of force of this century have their origins in this territory, as has been pointed out on several occasions. Therefore, the rapporteur, your very comprehensive report gives us a better understanding of the complexity of the challenges facing Afghanistan today. Relations between the European Union and Afghanistan are particularly diverse and numerous. They are, of course, woven first of all by the security imperative that the situation in that country called for by the international community and all the countries that participated in military operations in 2001. France was at the outposts of this arrangement by deploying several thousand soldiers on Afghan soil and regretting the loss of ninety soldiers until its departure in 2012. In this context, and in a particularly difficult security and economic situation, the support of the European Union has proved to be particularly important for Afghanistan. It is several billion euros that have been invested in this country with results, although insufficient but not negligible, as detailed in the committee's report. As you have said, this country is classified as one of the world's least developed countries, but in recent years it has experienced development – certainly insufficient – despite the ongoing conflicts and terrorism and despite the weaker growth in recent months due to the persistent drought. Such development could not have been achieved without the support of the international community. We must all be aware of it and admit it. The revision of the partnership between Afghanistan and the European Union is a good thing, since Europe's role exceeds that of donors. This partnership is indeed in keeping with the values dear to the European Union, as my colleague Anne Genetet reminded us at the moment: the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, the development of peace, security and the restoration of government authority, the fight for human rights, equality between men and women, but also commercial and development cooperation, migration challenges and the fight against weapons of mass, chemical and biological destruction. On all these issues, Afghanistan needs our help and support. We must therefore support this initiative. In this context, it seems to us that strengthening the monitoring of the participation of the European Union and its Member States in the use of financial aid by Afghanistan is probably the best way to improve the country's concrete development. The latest developments are positive, with nearly nine million children attending school, compared to only one million in 2002. These concrete results have been made possible by aid policies. Of course, some are not satisfactory and others are probably questionable or contested, but on the whole, they could not have been obtained without the help provided. One of the benefits to be valued is the 34 per cent reduction in mortality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u193	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u194	Afghanistan therefore faces multiple challenges. This country needs the support of the international community in order not to go back into chaos. I share Mr Mélenchon's concern to leave this country at peace, but we must first ensure peace and the means for its development. [[The president of the committee and the rapporteur applaud]] France must continue to ensure the continuation of the dialogue between the actors. This is the very condition for the success of the partnership that the bill proposes to deepen. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will of course vote for the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u195	On the single article, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u196	Yesterday, again, in Kabul and Charikar, two deadly attacks caused at least 48 deaths and very many injuries, mourning the presidential campaign that is to lead to the election on 28 September. In Kabul, the target was an army recruitment centre. In Charikar, Parwan Province, participants in a meeting of President Ashraf Ghani were targeted by a suicide bomber. Both attacks were claimed by the Taliban, who considered the 28 September election to be illegitimate and announced that they would do everything to disturb his organization. Aggravating factor: this already chaotic democratic process, marked by two previous postponements of the election, is doubly threatened. In fact, in addition to Taliban hostility, former warlords are multiplying signs of distrust and disinterest, preferring to focus on their fiefs, which increases the risk of fragmentation of the country, even though the Afghan government controls only half of the territory. In parallel with this worrisome news and the precarious political situation, Afghanistan remains a country with many and profound difficulties. As our rapporteur points out, the country continues to be one of the least developed countries, despite the payment, since 2001, of more than $40 billion in aid. Food insecurity would affect 45 per cent of the population, and almost one in two people in the 15-25 age group. Meanwhile, the narco-economy of poppy and, to a lesser extent, cannabis is still strongly present: it is estimated that drug trafficking accounts for between 15 and 17 per cent of Afghan GDP. Despite some progress in human development – our colleague rapporteur mentioned the increase in school enrolment and the decline in infant and maternal mortality rates – there are still major human rights concerns. Prior to reviewing the text, our honourable senators had interviewed Professor Dorronsoro, who had been very pessimistic on many issues, including women's rights, and who had felt that the current results did not match the investments of the international community, particularly the European Union. It seems to me right to express our discontent — some senators have, in fact — when treaties do not take into account the real situation. While this agreement is laudable in terms of the principles it promotes, it is not binding and has several contradictions in it. What can be the value of a European agreement concluded with the authorities of a country of which only half is under the control of the legitimate government? How can principles such as equality between women and men and human rights be applied in a complex context, while at the very least part of the population is reticent to these values? How can we promote the implementation of an international agreement, while peace and stability remain to be built on the ground and depend first and foremost on an inter-Afghan and inter-ethnic internal agreement that is still far from being achieved? Moreover, why is the European Union, which is one of Afghanistan's main financial donors, not involved in the peace talks, whether they are of American or Russian initiative? This Partnership Agreement, however, includes several articles aimed at the consolidation of peace and international security. Finally, as our Assembly is about to discuss migration policy, I would like to point out a major problem in this agreement, which paves the way for the conclusion of a legally binding readmission agreement between the European Union and Afghanistan on illegal Afghan migrants. The latter will form the basis for national readmission agreements. In a context where the French Government wishes to speed up the expulsion of illegal Afghans, this agreement is an additional risk factor for migrants who have fled their country suffering from endemic insecurity. Amnesty International considers that "Afghans' removals are illegal and violate the principle of non-refoulement, which prohibits any return of a person who would expose him to serious violations of his rights".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u197	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u198	As for OFPRA – the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – it highlights the deterioration of the security situation on the ground as a result of fighting between the insurgents and the Afghan authorities. [[Christian Hutin applauds]] For all these reasons, the members of the Socialist and Related Group will not vote for the bill ratifying this convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u199	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u200	I would like to respond to the speakers who spoke in the general discussion, and who referred to many elements relating to Afghanistan and cooperation between France or the European Union and that country. Mr Mélenchon, you saw my reaction when you mentioned the content of the agreement. As a first step, you reduced it to free trade; But it must be taken into account in its entirety. When we read it carefully – I know you have – we cannot say that Article 1 is limited to the development of trade and investment. This article defines the objectives of the partnership: first peace and security, then the promotion of a stable and democratic political environment, the establishment of a regular dialogue on political issues, human rights and equality between men and women, the eradication of poverty... It is therefore not free trade that is highlighted in this article – in fact, the trade aspects that you have mentioned are only mentioned in the preamble. We must say this and repeat it to all those who are following our debates: trade is not the essence of the agreement. I would not want it to be reduced to a marginal dimension! It is important to read in extenso: it includes an article 3 on political dialogue, an article 4 on human rights... It aims to define a methodology that will enable the European Union and Afghanistan to structure their exchanges. Mr Lecoq, I have read your comments carefully about the role of neighbouring countries, sometimes very close to Afghanistan from a cultural and historical point of view, in the reconstruction of the country. The European Union is committed, or rather re-engaged, in Central Asia. President Carole Bureau-Bonnard and I can attest to this, for having visited us: a few months ago, the European Union held a strategic dialogue with all the States of the region. There is therefore no disengagement, but rather a European re-engagement in this very important area, at the edge of a number of powerful states such as China, Russia and India. Several of you have referred to the situation of Afghan interpreters who have assisted French personnel in operation – indeed, there are not only interpreters, but also other local civilian recruitment personnel who are carrying out other logistical missions at military bases. In 2018, the President of the Republic hoped that the situation of staff wishing to join France, but whose visa applications had been rejected in the first two campaigns, in 2012 and 2014, would be reconsidered. At the end of the review, fifty-one applicants were given the opportunity to come to France; Including families, 218 people were welcomed to our country, including in the first three months of this year. We are therefore extremely attentive to the demands: if we take into account all the campaigns, out of the 1200 local civilian recruitment personnel who worked with our forces, 400 have joined the French soil. Some also worked for other powers, other states, and made the choice to join other countries. In any case, know that we are not insensitive to their situation, that the President of the Republic has asked us to act and that a number of them have been able to join France. Finally, I would like to welcome the action of a number of your colleagues, including during the previous parliamentary term. You mentioned Françoise Hostalier: we all remember his commitment to Afghanistan and the inter-Afghan dialogue, which is indispensable and on which you have all insisted. That, Madam President, is the few elements that I wanted to bring to the attention of the National Assembly in response to the questions posed by the Members and out of respect for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u201	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u202	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor for an explanation of vote on the single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u203	Thank you, Secretary of State, for having had the correction to answer the questions of all Members. I was just talking to Jean-Paul Lecoq about it: it doesn't always happen! Alain David presented our position very well. We will not vote for this text, for several reasons. First of all, the situation is very complicated because of drug trafficking. It's terrible: 85% of the heroin we find in our home comes from Afghanistan! For a long time, we have not talked about this country, except to evoke British foreign policy in the 19th century...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u204	The big game!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u205	Absolutely! At once, however, the invasion of Afghanistan by Soviet troops made this country extremely important. Nevertheless, the underground economy of drugs, which is not really underground, since trafficking takes place in the sight and knowledge of everyone, harms all Western countries. The second reason why we will not be able to vote on this text has been very well explained by Alain David: the convention will make it possible to return directly, without any problems, an Afghan present on French territory in Afghanistan. But, frankly, admit that this country is not completely safe! When one is French, believes in a form of universalism and loves humanism a little, one cannot tolerate an Afghan being returned to his country in such a free way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u206	That's not exactly what's written!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u207	This is at least our point of view, but perhaps we are a little too humanist... For these reasons, we will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u208	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u209	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 41 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 34 Against 7
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u210	The next item is the debate on the draft law, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the Government of the French Republic and the Swiss Federal Council amending Annex 1 to the Convention of 13 September 1965 on the extension in French territory of the field of the European Organization for Nuclear Research (No. 1630, 1973).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u211	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u212	To repeat Olga Givernet's remarks at the committee meeting, this text falls "under the influence of common sense". It is simply a matter of facilitating the intervention of the security and rescue services on the grips of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, CERN, a very important international organisation dedicated to research in the field of particle physics, which is located on both sides of the Franco-Swiss border. It is recalled that CERN was created by a convention signed in 1953, that it currently has 22 Member States and welcomes more than 11,000 scientists. Beyond the humanist principle that science must be at the service of progress and peace, it is one of the first organisations on a European scale, which has a significant economic impact on our country, particularly the department of Ain. Two international agreements were signed to establish the legal framework for this facility in France, but none of these provisions dealt with the case of cross-border medical emergencies and emergency medical interventions in the field of CERN. You are proposed to fill this gap following a draft agreement finalized in February 2016. This agreement, designed and negotiated in close cooperation with the territorial services, aims to clarify the rules of engagement of the relief services of each of the parties. I would like to stress the importance of bringing international organizations to France. The Head of State is particularly attached to this. I wanted to share with the national representation the good news: the World Education Partnership, based in Washington, D.C., decided to set up a part of its teams in Paris, following a win-win competition with many cities competing. Since September, a few dozen PEG collaborators have settled a few hundred metres from here to take advantage of the particularly interesting educational ecosystem of Paris, thanks in particular to UNESCO or the International Organization of la Francophonie. I was appreciative of the fact that the committee stressed the importance of going further to encourage international organisations to establish themselves in our territory. In fact, Jean-Yves Le Drian and I are thinking about provisions in this area. They had been conceived as part of the preparation of the draft policy and programming bill on French development policy, but after having discussed with members of the committee, it seems to us that another vehicle would be more appropriate. In any event, we wish to strengthen the attractiveness of our country to international organizations. This agreement is useful and we call on you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u213	Mr Bruno Fuchs, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u214	The text submitted to you will allow us to refer to the world's largest research centre in the field of particle physics, better known as CERN. It is not such as to cause a motion of rejection to be tabled. We can be proud that the CERN, which hosts the famous "great Hadron Collider", is located on the Franco-Swiss border. CERN is even mostly located in France, where 82% of its territorial right-of-way is located. As a result of this cross-border establishment, the organisation enjoys a specific legal framework, essentially defined by a Franco-Swiss convention of September 1965. The bill that I have to introduce today is specifically designed to modernize this legal framework. In concrete terms, it proposes to authorise the ratification of an agreement in the form of letters exchanged between the two countries between March and May 2017, which aims to amend Annex 1 to the 1965 Convention. This annex was originally designed to introduce a derogation from the principle of territorial sovereignty, under which each host State has jurisdiction over the part of the area of CERN established in its territory. This derogation relates mainly to police intervention and provides that, in the event of an emergency, the action of the police forces of one party in the territory of the other party is authorized with the aim of bringing an offence to an end and contributing to its criminal treatment. The amendment to Annex 1 by the addition of an Article 3 is intended to extend this derogation principle to medical relief and emergency operations. To date, there are no provisions regulating relief interventions in the territory of the other State when they are not joint. However, the development of CERN has led to an awareness of the issues related to civil security and technological risks, which has led to a shared desire to change the framework for relief interventions. The Franco-Swiss agreement also makes it possible to specify the regime applicable to rescue teams in case of infringement and damage caused by their agents. In practice, the number of relief interventions should remain relatively small. Indeed, CERN has its own emergency service, which will continue to intervene as a matter of priority. As an indication, the Ain department fire and rescue department intervened four times in the CERN field in 2017, mainly in the area of fire reinforcement, and the Geneva fire and rescue department three times. The agreement provides that these interventions may take place either at the request of the Director-General of CERN or on the own initiative of the rescue services. Finally, this agreement, although of modest scope, allows me to stress the importance and richness of cross-border cooperation. As far as Switzerland is concerned, I would remind you that last May we authorised the approval of a bilateral framework agreement on cross-border health cooperation and that the agreement on which we are discussing today is part of overall coherence and a dynamic that we must support. It is a question of promoting scientific cooperation between our two countries and on an international scale, but also of ensuring the safety of staff and our citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to pass this bill and to authorize the ratification of this Franco-Swiss agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u215	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u216	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the rapporteur of the bill, Bruno Fuchs, for his excellent and comprehensive report. For France, scientific and academic cooperation takes on its full meaning when it opens up to the world. The European Organisation for Nuclear Research, CERN, which benefits a scientific community of more than 12,000 users from all over the world and of which we are one of the founding members, provides a very good example of this ambition. Today it is a reference organization for scientific cooperation, which has hosted since 2008 the most powerful particle accelerator in the world, which has confirmed the existence of the famous Higgs boson, this elementary particle that has made possible the no less famous big-bang. It is a formidable tool for scientific research and cooperation and a very valuable asset for local and regional development. CERN represents 500 million euros of annual economic benefits for France, almost four times our contribution to the organisation's budget. And since its creation in 1953, the number of inhabitants of the commune of Saint-Genis-Pouilly in the Ain has been multiplied by more than eighteen to reach more than 10000. The scope of these figures is twofold. It attests to the dynamism of CERN, but it also shows the density of our cross-border cooperation. In the country of Gex where CERN is located, more than 50% of the inhabitants are bordering. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have adopted several agreements on cross-border cooperation, with Switzerland, but also with Luxembourg, particularly in the field of health. Since 2007, three other framework health cooperation agreements have been concluded with Germany, Belgium and Spain, and there are also numerous cooperation agreements between social security agencies and health and medical institutions. These agreements are essential to ensure a living environment adapted to cross-border transport, health and safety needs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This debate in session allows us, on the one hand, to welcome the role of CERN, in particular its researchers, but also to underline the very important role played by our local authorities in the development of cross-border cooperation. That is why this convention deserves our full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u217	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u218	Long approval on the benches on the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u219	At the end of the 1940s, while the countries of Western Europe, which barely recovered from their ashes, feared that the Americans and the USSR would lag behind in the major scientific and technological fields, some bold scientists had the idea of creating a European physics laboratory. The proposal was formalised in 1949 by Louis de Broglie at the European Conference on Culture in Lausanne. He is immediately supported by several of his peers, including the Nobel Prize in Physics Isidor Rabi. Before the beginning of spring 1952, the European Council for Nuclear Research, CERN, was established, thanks to an agreement ratified by eleven countries, including France. The European Organization for Nuclear Research was formally established on 29 September 1954. Its first accelerator, the Synchrocyclotron, was built three years later in Switzerland; It develops a modest energy of 600 mega-electronvolts and holds in a building. The first major CERN machine, the Proton Synchrotron, was launched at the end of 1959. With a circumference of 628 meters, it can generate 600 giga-electronvolts for particle acceleration. It made it possible to experiment with fields of physics that until then had been the subject of theory. The proton supersynchrotron, launched in 1976, with its 7 kilometres long and its power of 450 giga-electronvolts, made possible experiments on antimatter. He will become the world's first proton-antiproton collisionor. It was thanks to this wonderful machine that scientists were able to discover the W and Z bosons in January 1983. That year began the construction of the Great Electro-Positon Collider, SARA. Located 100 metres deep in a 27-kilometre circumference tunnel, mainly located in the French basement, SARA becomes the largest particle accelerator ever built. Work began in 1999 to install in the SARA tunnel the large Hadron Collider – LHC – which is the most complex scientific instrument ever built, capable of propelling particles into the vacuum at a speed almost identical to that of light. It now replaces SARA. I personally had the opportunity to visit these facilities during one of my trips to CERN in Geneva. LHC is used to produce quantities and, above all, to measure antihydrogen atoms. It led to the first high-energy collisions in the spring of 2010. Two years later, a series of experiments highlighted the existence of a new particle, which will turn out to be the famous Higgs boson. If I wanted to start by reminding you of the history of CERN, it is because it is truly a unique international scientific epic. The benefits of the fundamental research carried out in this laboratory since its creation are immeasurable for our civilization and for humanity as a whole, and their practical applications are numerous, as our colleague Mr Bruno Fuchs mentioned in his report. The establishment of CERN between France and Switzerland has allowed the development of many local authorities. The laboratory employs 2,500 people and welcomes nearly 12,000 scientists from around the world, while its subcontracting companies have several thousand employees. France is the third largest contributor to the CERN budget, which amounts to some €1.3 billion annually. In return, the economic benefits of this laboratory for our country are estimated at 500 million euros per year, three to four times the amount we dedicate to it. The equipment to replace the LHC is the FCC, a colossal scientific tool whose circumference would be close to 100 kilometres. It will provide a 100 tera-electronvolt collision energy compared to the 14 tera-electronvolts of the current LHC. Among the scientists at the 150 universities that collaborate on this project, some are convinced that this machine will give us access to unsuspected dimensions of the universe and will allow us to build a new physics, hitherto unknown to standard models. It is crucial that CERN maintains the very clear scientific advance it has taken on other research laboratories in particle physics. Let us remember that China has already launched its own giant collision site, 50 to 100 kilometres long. That is why we, Members of the La France group, committed to the idea of propeling our country to the borders of humanity – as we develop in our project "The Common Future" – will support this draft agreement. We call on the Government to anticipate the investments necessary to achieve the FCC, so that our country, through its commitment to scientific and technological progress, contributes to the well-being of humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u220	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u222	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u223	Jean-Paul, you're not gonna vote against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u224	This agreement between France and Switzerland, which aims to facilitate the movement of police forces in the territories hosting the particle accelerator, is both necessary and positive. This is a formality peculiar to the famous CERN LHC, whose implantation overlaps the Franco-Swiss border. Such a configuration makes it necessary to have an agreement allowing the police forces of one country to intervene in the territory of the other, but remaining within the CERN settlements, and at its sole request.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u225	Not the police, but civil protection!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u226	We must vote in favour of this text to fill a legal vacuum. For their part, medical emergencies and relief will be organized in accordance with the same principle. This debate is an opportunity to recall the extraordinary machine that is the LHC, a major Hadron Collider, 27-kilometre giant ring buried 100 metres underground, the most powerful particle accelerator in the world. The LHC, which costs around €4 billion, was inaugurated eleven years ago on September 10, 2008, and will normally stop operating in 2038. It is in constant improvement: currently stopped, it is the subject of work that will enable it to reach its maximum potential when it restarts in 2021. The luminosity of the machine will then be improved, in 2025, so that its last decade of operation will be optimal. The objective of the LHC is the noblest and most complex: to find where we come from. The high-speed particle collisions aim to recreate what happened a fraction of a second after the big-bang – the formation of the universe – in an attempt to understand why we are here today. The experience is beautiful and necessary, because it values fundamental research. This is a major point, which constitutes its political foundation. Scientific research suffers from a crucial lack of resources, and CERN, with the resources at its disposal, must not be the tree that hides the forest. Today, research is being asked to aim for a concrete and rapid application, in order to be financed or co-financed by private companies. Researchers spend most of their time on calls for projects, hoping to obtain funding from the National Research Agency, but with very low success rates. These funding arrangements restrict the freedom of researchers and impede fundamental research. In fact, most of the research that is wrongly qualified as useless in the short term is excluded. Not to mention the situation of the social sciences, which fall into the greatest poverty, basic research is no longer considered profitable. However, CERN's experiences strongly demonstrate that this "productive inutility" leads to discoveries that are crucial to humanity. In the words of a scientist: "We did not invent electricity by improving the candle! It must be heard. The majority, who are constantly talking about ruptures, must devote more resources to basic scientific research. The review of the future law on multi-annual research programming, scheduled for early next year, will be a timely time to give French research the means of its ambitions. The exchanges that took place this morning in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have again demonstrated the lack of resources and the need to supplement their funding. The budgetary debate will make it possible to make progress in this area. If we unanimously welcome the LHC and its incredible successes, which make the European Union the spearhead of fundamental physics in the world, we must be attuned to this euphoria and finally increase the budgets of our universities and laboratories. The example of LHC goes beyond basic research. As an international cooperation, it is the crucible of values that the communists constantly value: friendship and sharing among peoples, beyond differences. Nearly 7,000 scientists from 80 nationalities work together there, with the sole aim of discovering the mysteries of physics. We can draw two lessons from this success. First of all, basic research is necessary and needs to be valued much more than it is today in France. Secondly, the international community must take an example of this small model of peaceful international relations, oriented towards the search for the common good, peace and friendship among peoples. As you will understand, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of the bill authorizing this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u227	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u228	The text we are debating today poses no difficulty. It is the result of the daily cohabitation between an international scientific organization and its host countries, France and Switzerland. I am sure that it will be unanimous – indeed, it has already been announced, and I thank you for that. The creation of CERN in 1954 upset our territory, the country of Gex – where I am elected – and gave it exceptional growth. Our people live in part at the pace of the international organizations they host. This weekend, on the occasion of its open doors, CERN was able to welcome a large audience. The agreement aims to facilitate the intervention of French and Swiss cross-border medical emergencies and relief in the field of CERN, in the event of an emergency or at the request of CERN. But the essential thing is elsewhere, in this formidable research tool at the service of humanity and our country. CERN has transformed the lives of humans. It was in his walls that the internet was born. It is also within it that major discoveries have emerged – that of the Higgs boson, to name but a few. In order to achieve these considerable advances, CERN needs equally considerable resources. As the laboratory was initially housed in a small building, its collision worker is now 27 kilometres long, divided between the canton of Geneva and my constituency, in the department of Ain. If his researchers were initially working on the nuclear atom, they are now devoting themselves to infinitely smaller data, aiming at infinitely more ambitious objectives. Tomorrow, to stay at the point, the CERN will have to equip itself with a larger collisionor, 100 kilometers in diameter, passing under the Ain and the Haute-Savoie. Here is the place of Europe in the world. In the face of Asian competition, especially in China, CERN opposes research that is open to all. Secretary of State, I would like to draw your utmost attention to the need to work at the birth of this great collisionor. To illustrate the benefits of CERN for humanity, I will refer to a company created by several of its researchers in the country of Gex, AAA, nugget of French medical technology and creating jobs. This laboratory specializing in nuclear medicine develops health equipment to better detect and treat cancers more effectively. Thus, millions of human lives are saved through CERN and its researchers. CERN is also a local development engine for the Geneva Basin. The population of my commune, Saint-Genis-Pouilly, which is home to some of its facilities, increased from 650 inhabitants in 1954, the date of the Organization's creation, to more than 12,000 today. We welcome more than 90 nationalities – international Geneva is represented here – that bring our territory a wealth and an openness that is not found anywhere else. CERN is therefore more than an international organization. That is why France must bear it and support it financially, thanks to the budget allocated to it every year by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, but also – and I invite you to consider this possibility – thanks to fund-raising that would abound the project of great collisionor. If it is a pride to welcome CERN on French soil, it is also, and above all, a responsibility: to keep European research at the cutting edge, so that the discoveries and innovations of tomorrow do not escape us. In conclusion, I would like to recall the role played by CERN for peace in Europe. As you pointed out, Secretary of State, this role is nothing insignificant. More than a great tool of scientific outreach for our continent, CERN is the very example of a Europe that is advancing, a Europe that is deliberately open to the world. It shows that scientific progress is a vector of social progress, which helps to avoid war. The founders of the Organization had a high vision of science in the service of progress and peace, and had made it live successfully. It is up to us, as a national representative, to continue this magnificent work of which our children will be grateful.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u229	Mr Michel Fanget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u230	The agreement before our Assembly is of particular importance because it will enable the citizens of France and Switzerland to have access to greater safety and health. The amendment of Annex 1 to the Convention on the extension of French territory in the field of CERN will make it possible to fill a legal gap, since at present there are no provisions regulating relief operations carried out in the territory of the other State, when they are not joint. Recall the importance of CERN in the world of research. It is worth international attention to Europe and France, at the same time as it provides our country with considerable economic benefits and is a strong provider of jobs. This international centre is home to 2,500 employees and nearly 12,000 scientists. His laboratories have contributed greatly to the greatest scientific advances and discoveries of recent decades. Located in France at more than 80%, CERN is a cross-border structure that requires specific rules. A first derogation from the principle of the territorial sovereignty of States is provided for in respect of police intervention. You have reminded us, Mr rapporteur: in the event of an emergency, the police forces of one of the parties are allowed to intervene in the territory of the other, with the aim of bringing an offence to an end and contributing to its criminal treatment. A similar arrangement is provided for in the agreement with regard to civil security issues and technological risks. The aim is to provide a legal framework for relief interventions based primarily on a mutual assistance agreement in the event of a disaster or a serious accident. Of course, Franco-Swiss cooperation did not wait for this text to embark on close cooperation. As mentioned in the report, and for the reasons I have just mentioned, this agreement will have very limited administrative and military consequences. In concrete terms, it will provide access to care for citizens living near the borders, in the canton of Geneva and in the department of Ain. This helps to avoid risks. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In any event, France must continue this action, deepen it, further facilitate the public service interventions of the border countries on its territory and vice versa. This is a good example of the collaboration we can be capable of. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, of course, endorses this agreement and will vote in favour of its approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u231	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u232	You will forgive me, Mr. Secretary of State, for a breach of protocol: as part of letters of exchange, I must not call you "Mr. Secretary of State" but "Your Excellency".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u233	I'm blushing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u234	That's the principle of diplomacy... These are letters exchanged between France and Switzerland, but also something wonderful. All the speakers said that what we are doing here is exceptional. We only talk about particle accelerators once a year at the time of the Telethon. Now we're stuck in something magical and unsung. We are working very seriously on the future of basic research in the field of nuclear energy; and this is happening in Switzerland and France. At the origin of CERN, there is a French Nobel Prize winner, Louis de Broglie; 87% of the plant is located in France, which represents 8000 or 10000 jobs. How can we oppose this? How can we imagine that the countries that have agreed at the origin of the project, and those that have associated with them, do not achieve magnificent achievements? Today, a small convention guarantees us a minimum of health and medical safety. There are similar ones in many areas, such as cycling. Why not in this area? We can only subscribe to this article. If we are talking about this right now in the National Assembly, it is because it is necessary; If not, who's going to talk about it? Who will report on what is happening between France and Switzerland: collisions of hadrons? Men can do wonderful things. Let's say today: what we do is beautiful. The Chinese are extremely jealous of it. About two months ago, a snoop caused a breakdown in our Hadron Collider; I won't go so far as to say that she was Chinese... We are rich in the power of men's will, when it pushes them to work together for peace and fundamental research. This deserved to be discussed, and therefore not to resort to the simplified examination procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u235	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u236	We're asking for more!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u237	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u238	In the aftermath of the Second World War, the idea of a multinational laboratory for the rebirth of European science was born. It was evoked in 1949 by a French Nobel Prize laureate in physics, discoverer of the wave character of electrons, Louis de Broglie. His dream came true: sixty-four years ago, the first stone of CERN was laid in Meyrin. But the history of a civilization is inscribed in the stones of its monuments, but also in the men who organize it. This text will allow us to protect both the stones and the people of this institution, a source of national, European and global pride, as my colleagues have expressed. Over time, CERN has grown from twelve founding States in 1952 to more than seventy-five Member States, observers and participants in its programmes. We will continue to build it through this bill authorizing the approval of an agreement that will give French and Swiss forces the opportunity to intervene, protect and rescue within CERN. Means and equipment attract researchers from around the world to its premises; This equipment, which is unique in the world, in the midst of the cold war has made it possible to work hand in hand, with the researchers of CERN, American and Soviet scientists. As a Member of the French Foreign Office in Switzerland and Liechtenstein, and on behalf of the IDU and Independent Group, I would like to stress the importance we attach to this proud European research laboratory; and our deep respect for those who work daily to revolutionize our daily lives by pushing the limits of our knowledge. Beyond the theoretical physics for which they were designed, CERN instruments now have applications in many areas of daily life: medical diagnosis, therapy, computer chip manufacturing, and many more. The discoveries made in these places are immeasurable, not only for pure science, but for everyone's existence. Thus, in 2010, we discovered the way to trap the antimatter, in 2012, the Higgs boson – one of the keys to understanding the universe as we know it today, as we would like to know it even better. Less known, at CERN was born the world wide web, which affects each of us every day. The evolution of this laboratory does not decelerate: a new particle accelerator of an even greater circumference, passing under the southwest tip of Lake Geneva and under the Haute-Savoie, is planned in 2040 and will affirm the domination of CERN on the international scientific scene. His vision remains intact: to open the doors of a new physics, in the words of Frédérick Bordry, Director of Accelerators and Technology. I would like to place here a digression: Geneva's international organizations have had numerous visits by the President of the Republic, members of the Government; But I don't think anything significant has been done for CERN yet. My colleague Olga Givernet, my colleagues from Ain and Haute-Savoie and I would like to see the importance of CERN highlighted, in particular through a large-scale visit. We have a debt to CERN that we cannot pay: this agreement gives recognition to those who work within it, and encourages them to continue their task, which is a duty to humanity. The agreement will establish a specific legal framework, a clear legal framework, to enable emergency response across this cross-border territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u239	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u240	[[MM. Bruno Fuchs, rapporteur and Christian Hutin applaud]] Similarly, if an arrest is indispensable, it may be carried out by the agents of either country, and the arrested person extradited within 48 hours. The rules of self-defence can be implemented by French agents on Swiss soil and vice versa, while the legal framework is not the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u241	The general discussion is closed. On the single article, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u242	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u243	In explanation of vote, Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u244	The Helvets have shown no desire to invade France since the year 58 B.C. – the Gauls' War – where they wanted to go to the Ardèche. Very sincerely, we can vote for this agreement with a light heart, because we have good relations with Switzerland, because it is a beautiful thing for France, Switzerland and the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u246	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u247	This common sense ratification is a formality – an obvious one, just like what CERN represents for us. What is less obvious is its prospects, in other words the future of CERN and more broadly the ambition of our research. In a climate emergency, and at a time when large-scale projects – including the great collisionor mentioned by my colleague Olga Givernet – are on the table, CERN could be more relevant to societal needs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That said and understood, in order to ensure that cooperation between France, Switzerland and CERN for regional, national and international development continues, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of this ratification. Let us try to remove the administrative barriers in order to strengthen Franco-Swiss cooperation and one day end up in the Euroregion of Greater Geneva, a daily reality for more than one million inhabitants of this territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u248	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u249	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 27 Number of votes cast 27 Absolute majority 14 For adoption 27 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u250	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u251	[[The sitting was suspended at 9.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.20 p.m. with Mr Marc Le Fur in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u252	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u253	The next item is the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Chad on air services and the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Angola on air services (No. 1566, 1789).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u254	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u255	Two air services agreements were signed with Chad and Angola, respectively. The President of the Republic wanted us to strengthen relations between our country and the African continent. In fact, 2020 will be a year marked by Africa. An Africa-France summit will be held in Bordeaux from 3 to 5 June. It will highlight sustainable cities, innovation and provide an opportunity to address the issue of airport platforms. It will also be the year of the "Africa 2020" cultural season, organized with talent by N'Goné Fall. It is thus important that we pay attention to these two agreements, which will make it possible to increase contacts, exchanges, between the peoples of Chad and Angola and that of France and, beyond that, with those of the countries of the European Union. There was an air agreement with Chad, but it was from 1963. There were none between France and Angola. However, French airlines are increasingly present in these two countries and the number of rotations is increasing. We had the joy of receiving, a little over a year ago, the visit of the President of Angola, João Lourenço, who was able to meet many entrepreneurs. There is no doubt that economic relations will be strengthened, but also the links between civil societies. These agreements, with a standard invoice, essentially reflect the provisions contained in the model air agreement defined by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). They meet the requirements of security, safety and fair competition. The debate in recent months has focused on the environmental and climate implications of air transport. Your committee, on the initiative of its rapporteur, has seized this issue and other Members have addressed it. On this subject, France, if I may say so, does not remain the two feet in the same hoof. On 9 July, on the occasion of the second environmental defence council, a new decision-making body set up by the President of the Republic, our country committed itself to Europe moving forward with the taxation of air transport. The lines are moving slowly. The emergency is real. The eco-contribution announced by the Government will apply to flights departing France. All companies are concerned, regardless of their nationality, so as not to disadvantage French companies. Eco-contribution will be progressive and class-modulated. It can reach 18 euros for a flight outside the European Union in business class. In view of the intensification of air transport, it has become necessary to find mechanisms to respond effectively to the problems which result from it. Industry has also made commitments such as a global carbon neutral growth from 2020 or a 50% reduction in civil aviation CO emissions by 2050. I am providing you with these different data, but in the immediate future the Government invites you to approve the ratification of these two air services agreements with Chad and Angola.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u256	Mr Claude Goasguen, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u257	You will have the chance to hear a very brief presentation. To the extent that bis repetita place, I will repeat what I said in committee, but having a better mind than one of my colleagues, I would like to deliver this rehearsal to you in abbreviated version. This text is in fact part of a mould already prepared since several tens or even hundreds of conventions of the same type already exist. In addition, the Secretary of State has already addressed the main problems. I will listen with interest to the motion of rejection, even if its deposit surprises me. It will probably concern the choice of the countries in question. I do not know what could be said about this, but I am counting on the always fertile imagination of the authors of this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u258	Of course: the problems we're talking about don't really exist, do they?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u259	You are all aware of the stakes of these agreements: to enter into the framework of the Chicago Convention is just one point. [[Smile. – MM. Bruno Joncour and François Ruffin applaud]] We have tried to correct structural shortcomings in Chad and Angola, thanks to the committee's eminent remarks. In doing so, a remarkable and very interesting report has been drawn up, and I recommend it to you for a careful reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u260	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u261	The two agreements we are discussing are aimed at establishing a stable legal framework conducive to the development of air traffic with two African countries, Chad and Angola. The rapporteur, Claude Goasguen – whose excellent work I welcome and no less brilliant speech he has just made at this rostrum – recalled that these agreements are part of France's overall policy to guide the development of air connections with a large number of countries. The scope of these agreements is limited to commercial aviation. We are not discussing defence agreements here, but civil aviation, which is an element of openness and a vehicle for development. The air sector, with its 300,000 direct jobs, is also one of the pillars of the French economy. Civil aviation, however, faces challenges that we must overcome together. The first is economic because the air sector is subject to strong competition. I will not go back, Claude Goasguen has dealt extensively with this issue in his report. The second challenge concerns security. Aviation security requires an unabated effort, involving all aviation actors in all countries. The last challenge, which we need to place more emphasis on, is that of the environment, which, in particular, raises the question of the price of kerosene. This major concern, rightly stressed by our rapporteur, is undoubtedly shared by many colleagues on all sides. Aviation accounts for nearly 3 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions, a significant increase. However, kerosene is not subject to any taxation, which is not in line with tax justice or our common will to combat global warming. The Government announced, at the conclusion of the environmental defence council on 9 July, that it would want to correct this anomaly by introducing an eco-tax on airfares from metropolitan France in 2020. France thus joins the group of European countries which have adopted a tax on kerosene, including the United Kingdom, Germany, Austria, Sweden and Norway. But it is necessary to ensure the consistency of the treaties that we ratify with our national law, now more than ever. We therefore need to work on an agreement with all the member countries of the International Civil Aviation Organization to end the general tax exemption on aviation fuel and to better integrate environmental emergencies into the priorities of the aviation sector. Of course, Mr Secretary of State, this is a long-term task.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u262	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u263	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups. – Mr. François Ruffin also applauds]] But this work is necessary: the air sector must contribute, to a fair extent, to the fight against global warming. It is up to us, France, to act in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u264	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u265	This bill is intended to authorize the approval of the agreement on air services between France and Chad and between France and Angola. It complements the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed in Chicago in December 1944, to which Chad, Angola and France are parties. The aim of this agreement is to establish air services between the respective territories of the parties concerned; it allows overflight rights to be granted without landing and/ or to make stopovers for non-commercial purposes, excluding cabotage from its scope. This text is problematic on at least two levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u266	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u267	First, it does not address one of the key issues in international civil aviation: the need to reduce air traffic in response to climate change. Previous speakers referred to this item. They said that all this was very important, that small steps should be taken and that it was a long-term task.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u268	That requires measurements!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u269	France is taking it, by the way!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u270	In our view, these statements and, above all, these actions are totally inadequate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u271	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u272	It should be recalled that the Chicago Convention, which established the International Civil Aviation Organization, responsible for coordinating and regulating international air transport, had as its main objective, at the time of its ratification, to promote the growth of traffic and to encourage trade in the aftermath of the war. In particular, this Convention introduced the tax exemption for air kerosene, which is still in force today. But, at a time of imperative ecological transition, which requires both the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the financing of new ecological infrastructure – such as the refinancing of railway infrastructure, which has been dismantled – this exemption is more than obsolescent. It has become counterproductive and profoundly unfair for the other transport sectors and especially for the majority of the population, who are involved in financing the ecological transition. Air transport accounts for 2 to 3 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions; An impact that promises to double or even triple by 2050. International Air Transport Association projections predict a doubling of traffic by 2036. By 2050, emissions from the sector could reach 20% of total emissions if nothing is done to reverse the trend. This sector pollutes twice as much as the car and 40 times as much as the train per person per kilometre travelled. If it were a country, it would be the sixth largest polluter in the world, between Japan and Germany. According to the European Commission, a transatlantic return flight emits as much greenhouse gas as a person who heats up for a year. Despite this, industrialists have managed not to be integrated into the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. They preferred to decide on their own framework within ICAO, which is, let's say, a particularly opaque organisation where civil society observers do not have a place and no possibility of intervention. If France, like the other countries signatory to the Chicago Convention, cannot tax international flights, it is free to do so for its domestic flights, as is the case in the United States, Japan, Brazil or Switzerland. The Group of the European People's Party has regularly tabled amendments to this effect over the last two years. We will continue to defend this measure, which seems to us to be common sense in the course of parliamentary debates, and we do not hope to convince the majority. In order to tax fuel on international flights, the agreement should be renegotiated and a consensus reached within the International Civil Aviation Organization, which would require the unanimous vote of its 191 Member States. This consensus has, so far, never been found, but we must proactively engage in the battle in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u273	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u274	Thus, as Kurt Van Dender, head of the OECD's Tax Policy Division, explained: "If states renegotiate these agreements bilaterally, one can imagine a grouping of Western European countries, for example, lifting these exemptions and imposing kerosene taxation on flights between their territories." We could and should take this type of bilateral agreement to move forward on this crucial issue. In fact, the absence of the mere mention of this issue in the text before us is indicative of the guilty inconsequence of this government and its majority in terms of climate change adaptation policy and ecological transition. Again, discourse and communication will not hide the lack of policy and the lack of concrete commitments. Let us remember that all scientists have been explaining to us for years that we do not have time to adapt our societies and that we must act now. I repeat: in the face of urgency, the small steps that are proposed to us are not only insufficient, but even guilty. Secondly, in view of the countries concerned by this agreement, this inconsistency is compounded by political fault. Indeed, Mr. Goasguen, we will return to this question, which is a question of imagination and creativity for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u275	I've been waiting for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u276	Unfortunately, that is not the case. We'd like to believe in a fable or the plot of a B-series film, but that's the reality...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u277	Not for Angola anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u278	... as far as the links we have with the Chadian power are concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u279	Ah, it's Chad.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u280	Yes, it's Chad. We could talk about Angola, since the desire to promote air traffic with that country is not unrelated to the current development of oil exploitation. But this is another subject and, for lack of time, I will focus here on Chad. This country has been run since 1990 by a President of the Republic, Dr. Idriss Déby, who was nicknamed "the worst dictator of the continent" by The Economist magazine. It is an honour, given the choice, unfortunately, in this matter. Human rights organizations unanimously condemned his regime for its repeated violations of rights and freedoms. In 2018, constitutional reform, which removes the position of Prime Minister and prevents the creation of a vice-president position, allowed him to concentrate all the powers in his hands. Idriss Déby has also made it a point of honour to suppress any opposition, engaging in arbitrary detention and extra-judicial executions. Nor is this the fruit of imagination, unless we consider that the execution, in 2016, of forty soldiers guilty of having voted for another candidate in the presidential election is a fact out of the fantasy imagination of human rights organisations. It should be remembered that the vote is taken in this country without isolation. On the occasion of this election, the leaders of civil society, including the Secretary-General of the Chadian Convention for the Defence of Human Rights, Mahamat Nour Ibédou, were arbitrarily – not imaginaryly – arrested and detained without charge for endless weeks. At present, a very real crackdown is under way against the people of the north of the country, guilty of having claimed their due: a share of the profits derived from the exploitation of gold from which the subsoils of their region, the Tibesti, are plentiful. This is the result of a systematic capture by the elite of the power of the wealth produced, to the detriment of the vast majority of the population. Let us remember that this country, rich in natural resources and raw materials, is ranked 186th out of 189 if we look at the UN Human Development Index. During almost the whole of 2018, a general strike shook the country, protesting against the reduction of their wages from 10% to 40% and against endemic corruption. However, in the words of researcher Thomas Dietrich: "Chad has always been the laboratory of Françafrique. Since the 1980s, the French state has unreservedly supported its successive leaders, including against each other. France supported Hissène Habré, Mr. Déby's predecessor, in his war against Libya, complicit in the mass abuses that this dictator was inflicting on his own population. The services of the DGSE promoted Idriss Déby's accession to power in 1990 through a coup d'état against Hissène Habré. Since then, Mr. Déby has been supported by France. On two occasions, in 2006 and 2008, the French army's helicopters intervened to disrupt rebels who threatened the presidential palace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u281	There was a deal!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u282	Yes, it was an agreement – a defence agreement from the Françafrique...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u283	A short agreement, legally valid!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u284	... this beautiful association that has done so much good to these countries as to ours, thanks to the very imaginary silver briefcases that have passed between the two continents! At the end of December, a loan of €40 million and a donation of €10 million was made by Elysée in Chad so that the scheme could pay the salaries of civil servants until the end of the year. When we know the degree of corruption that prevails at the top of this state, it is not certain that French public money has benefited directly from the people. France thus appears, in the eyes of many Chadians, and among the people of Africa and Europe, as the protector of one of the most predatory and corrupt regimes on the continent. This support does not go without doubt: what to say about the meeting that took place in N'Djamena in early December 2018 between Alexandre Benalla, who was still, a few months before, a member of the presidential cabinet, and Idriss Déby's brother, Mr Oumar Déby, Director of the Directorate General of the Strategic Reserve, in charge of arms purchases? At the request of the Chadian President, on 3 February, a French Mirage 2000 patrol then conducted strikes against an armed column of the Union of Resistance Forces from Libya. Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, said that France had intervened to avoid a coup d'état; It is true that our country knows about coups d'état on the African continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u285	He's not the only one!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u286	In truth, Emmanuel Macron denies the precept that he had promised to respect in order to mark the rupture of his African policy with that of his predecessors: the military non-interference in the internal political affairs of an African country. Don't talk to me about defence agreements, Mr Goasguen: to judge their relevance, we need to know what they contain.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u287	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u288	The statement of the French Ministry of Armed Forces clearly justifies this renunciation: "The Chadian armed forces are an essential partner of France in the fight against terrorism, both in Mali [...] and in the joint force of the G5 Sahel and through its commitment to Boko Haram. »
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u289	He's beautiful, our ally!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u290	The pretext of the fight against terrorism now prevails – and that is a pretext. For the fight against terrorism has become a blank for the dictators of the Sahelian region, who can oppress their people with impunity. Down from the stated objective, the fight against acts of violence, instrumentalized by dictators, becomes a ground for terrorism. For it is the misery produced by these governments that benefits terrorist groups. Boko Haram, who made the Lake Chad region one of its strongholds, thrives on the extreme poverty that prevails there. Take the example of Kanuri fishermen. Because of the disappearance of 90% of the lake's surface and the lack of a proper state policy, they no longer have fish to fish and eventually supported the jihadists. Continuing to support a regime that punishes and maintains its population in poverty in the name of the fight against terrorism is completely counterproductive, in addition to being particularly indecent. We therefore associate ourselves with the associations, journalists and intellectuals who, in a forum published in Liberation last December, called on the Government to "stop this Faust pact with Idriss Déby" and demanded that "the Barkhane military operation in the Sahel be evaluated in order to determine whether its action is truly effective against Islamic terrorism or, in addition to raising a clear sovereignty problem, it allows for the maintenance of the power of autocrats who have not been responsible for the suffering of their people". Despite its innocuous appearance, the new agreement reached with the Chadian regime is an offence against the entire Chadian population but also against the French people we represent, who are thus associated with the abuses committed by the regime. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why it is time not only to respond to the imperative climate emergency by limiting the development of air traffic – it is a valid requirement for all air services agreements – but also and above all to break the incestuous, harmful and deadly ties that our country has long maintained with too many dictators on the continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u291	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u292	If I agree with the first part of your conclusion, I believe that, in the second part, you are very unfair with Chad and you forget Angola. I am very familiar with the political situation in Angola for having had the misfortune of being appointed by the United Nations to observe elections, the only ones whose results have never been announced. The Angolan leaders of the time were close to you – Mr.Dos Santos, supported by the Cubans and the Communist Party, then fought against Mr.Savimbi. One can point to some authoritarianism in the exercise of power on the part of Mr.Dos Santos – that is the least one can. In the week following the elections, the results of which were never known – a unique case in history – 150,000 deaths were recorded. It was 150,000 people who disappeared in the Congo-Angola border region. It must be said – and it is very sad – that Africa is often very badly gone,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u293	Thanks to who?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u294	...for more than one reason.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u295	Some of them find their way into it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u296	But you cannot systematically condemn Chad and forget Angola.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u297	I had fifteen minutes! If you give me an hour, I'm talking about Angola and oil.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u298	I remind you that in Angola, your friends are in power, not ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u299	After how many years of war?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u300	In explanation of vote, Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u301	Mr Goasguen, I have no friends in Chad or Angola.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u302	With Angola, surely!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u303	I do not feel political ties either with Chad or with Angola...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u304	Your friends, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u305	I have not heard once about Angola at a group meeting in La France insoubted. For years I have been dragging on the French left, I have never heard Angola as an example or as a friend.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u306	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u307	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I will speak about Chad in the general discussion, but I will never say that its current leaders are your friends. Maybe they're France's allies today, but I don't pretend they're your friends. It would be to place political discussion on bad ground to accuse of maintaining such friendships.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u308	It's not the right register!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u309	We do not have the same relationship with Angola and Chad, because we do not have the same responsibility for them. I see no responsibility of our country in Angolan affairs. On the other hand, France today has an important responsibility in Chadian affairs. You defended the agreement with a bonhomie who inclined me to the good mood, to such a sign that I applauded you. The agreement seems annoyed because it concerns air services, but that does not prevent the question of human rights from being raised. It is not enough to say that the situation is worse elsewhere. The question must be asked. France has a responsibility. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In the name of realpolitik, of which I am not a specialist and in the fight against terrorism, Chad can be regarded as an ally. But it is legitimate to ask ourselves about our alliances too.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u310	It's your most absolute right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u311	In the general debate, Mr François Ruffin spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u312	We are looking at an air agreement with Chad that raises interesting economic, fiscal and even environmental issues. But these are other agreements that I would like to focus on. On Wednesday, 4 September, France and Chad signed military agreements – a total of six – on "the organization of Chadian security forces", "military intelligence", "the nomadic national guard of Chad". I do not know if they will be discussed in this House, so I take this opportunity to refer to them today. Secretary of State, I see you looking up to heaven, but you have not listened carefully...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u313	[[Smile]] I'm listening to you, that's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u314	I am seeking to be heard by the Government. It does not note that I question the military agreements between France and Chad signed on 4 September. These agreements strengthen cooperation, essentially military, between our two countries. In fact, they reinforce support for President Idriss Déby. According to the specialists, and I am not, Chad would be the upper right corner of the French pre-square. If he falls, then the whole building collapses. This probably explains our unwavering support for the regime for almost thirty years. At home, the presidents pass – Mitterrand, Chirac, Sarkozy, Holland, and now Macron. There, since 1990, the president remains. And the same policy continues between our two countries. It is said that it is a matter of ensuring the stability of the region. But the stability of the region seems to be confused, in our minds, in those of diplomats, with the stability of the President. On numerous occasions, France intervened in Chadian internal affairs, in fact saving President Idriss Déby. In December 1990, Idriss Déby seized power by a coup de force. The former boss of the French Directorate-General for External Services – DGSE – acknowledges that he has decided to eliminate Hissène Habré from power. In April 2006, the rebels of the FUC – United Front for Change – entered N'Djamena, but the regime in place was supported by the French who would shoot members of the FUC. In February 2008, the civil war continued, the rebellion was about to overthrow Idriss Déby. Once again, power was saved by intervention by the French special forces. It is during these days – I make an aside – that the opponent Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh disappears. He taught mathematics at the Faculty of Orléans. He had served as minister several times in his country. He was, above all, the leader of the democratic opposition, not violent. On 3 February 2008, ten years ago, Mr. Saleh was abducted from his home by soldiers of the Presidential Guard. It turns out that French military advisers were present in the Chadian presidency and, according to several testimonies, were in contact with Mr. Saleh after his arrest. For more than ten years, we have had no news. His body was never found. The community of mathematicians in France has mobilized. The National Assembly has mobilized itself by adopting, in a trans-party manner, a resolution calling for France to shed light on this matter. A decade later, darkness persisted. Justice has not advanced, neither in France nor in Chad. I finish my chronology: at the end of 2018, Emmanuel Macron spends Christmas in Chad with the French forces of Operation Barkhane. Two months later, France bombed a column of a rebel group, the Union of Resistance Forces, in northern Chad. The broken opposition and many organisations have denounced this new interference by France. Let us say it frankly, we support a dictatorship, the continent's worst dictatorship according to The Economist. The democratic situation in Chad is catastrophic. The information report of the friendship group France-Chad, published in April of this year, clearly demonstrates this. In 2018, President Déby amended the constitution to ensure 12 more years in power, until 2033. This new constitution also abolishes the position of Prime Minister. As the report notes, the bishops, the opposition, civil society, all opposed this new constitution. Also in the report, it is said that "freedom of expression and civic space seem to be hampered by the tightening of the rules on demonstrations and associations, as well as by the breakdown of social networks since March 2018". Here's our ally. The parliamentary elections were originally scheduled for 2015 before being cancelled. They were then announced for November 2018, but again postponed. These could take place at the end of 2019. In short, they are constantly being pushed back. And why? The report explains this: "President Deby invokes a lack of financial resources" to organise this election.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u315	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u316	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So we are calling for another agreement, an agreement that not only deals with aircraft, helicopters, weapons, soldiers, or military intelligence, but an agreement that helps Chad to make a democratic transition, simply to organize and even finance these parliamentary elections. That is the priority cooperation we want between our two peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u317	An implacable indictment against the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u318	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u319	These air services agreements with Chad and Angola have three elements that we strongly oppose. The first two are common to the forthcoming discussion of the agreements with Mozambique, with Ethiopia and Costa Rica having the same object. First, Communist MPs are in principle opposed to economic liberalization agreements, which always end up destroying what they are supposed to improve – jobs, laws, institutions, etc. Everything is weakened to leave the way clear to the invisible hand of the market, which continues to do damage. The aim of the air services agreements negotiated by the European Union is to create the conditions for a skies free of all rules, to the detriment of working conditions in airlines – low cost companies are often the big winners, and employees, always the big losers. The policy of liberalisation of the sky began in 2008 when the European Union decided to negotiate a full opening of air routes, without any restrictions, from any airport between the European Union and the United States. Since then, the weight of the European Union in the negotiations on these agreements has increased, and the unconditional love for economic liberalism is all too well known. But European airlines are struggling to achieve significant margins, while those in other geographical areas, such as the Gulf, are very much helped by their respective states, as they are tools of influence. Europe thus endangers its companies by applying dogmatically fierce liberalism. Communist MEPs believe that it would be much more useful to consolidate our airlines and their employees by protecting the European sky. Secondly, these air agreements are intended to increase traffic, but can the planet bear such an increase? The taxation of kerosene, which has been debated in committee, will have to be a priority in the coming years if we are to limit air pollution. Such agreements for the development of air trade are a matter of time gone by. In metropolitan France, air travel is too often chosen solely on the grounds that it is less expensive. A Paris-Marseille should not be cheaper by plane than by TGV! Our environment must be saved. This fact is beginning to be increasingly shared in society and our duty, as representatives of the people, is to ensure that the aspirations of the people are taken into account in the laws we vote on. However, this agreement makes no mention of ecology or of compliance with the Paris agreements. If Chad or Angola are not major polluters and the way of life of their people is far from ours, it is our duty to help them achieve social, economic and environmental progress. That is precisely what we have missed for more than a century and this bad experience must be used in the service of their future industrial or social revolutions. With regard to the popular revolutions – and this will be my third point – Chad is preserved by the French tutelage, which frustrates any attempt at regime change. This is attested by the bombing by our army on 3 February of a column of vehicles of opponents of the regime of Idriss Déby, who were progressing towards the dictator's native village. The French army intervened at the request of the Chadian regime, whose first concern is its own maintenance. It is precisely this maintenance that represents a source of destabilization for the country. In the face of a dictatorial regime as brutal as Idriss Déby's, the conclusion of such an agreement to increase air trade between the EU and Chad is therefore not appropriate if it is not accompanied by counterpart, I have had the opportunity to say, with regard to ecology, but also with regard to political freedoms. This country, together with Djibouti, is one of the last strongholds of Françafrique, so communist deputies cannot under any circumstances support such an agreement. [[Applause on the benches of the LFI group]] As far as Angola is concerned, the ecological question alone justifies the impossibility of validating this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u320	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u321	We have to take a decision on a draft technical law, aimed at clarifying and enshrining in our law the organization of our air relations with Angola and Chad. In substance, the signing of these two agreements can be a source of satisfaction and I would like to thank all those who have invested in their success. As you pointed out, the rapporteur, we are not leaving a blank sheet in this sector: elements of cooperation pre-existed in the text submitted today to our vote, both with Chad and with Angola. However, this stage remains important, in that it addresses both economic issues, as well as enhancing aviation security and traffic safety. Let us remember that, every year, some 40,000 passengers travel between France and Chad – in a competitive environment forced for Air France – and that about 60000 passengers travel between France and Angola, a traffic with real prospects for growth. In terms of form, the political dimension of these agreements is also of considerable interest. This process of ratification marks, in general, the shared desire of all parties concerned to strengthen links in a growing number of projects and areas. This is a positive dynamic, both with Chad and Angola. I would like to stress this point all the more because these two countries are in the constituency of which I am a Member and I would like to take this opportunity to greet our compatriots who reside there: according to consular records, they are nearly 1500 in Chad and 2000 in Angola. These two countries, each at their own level and for different reasons, have a central place in Africa. Chad is part of the G5 Sahel and therefore plays a leading role in security and the fight against terrorism throughout the Sahel-Saharan region. As for Angola, I fully share your appreciation, Mr rapporteur, and also hope that our relations with that country will develop further. For all these reasons, the Group of the Republic on the move will vote in favour of this text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Some alert points were raised during the committee review, particularly in environmental matters. They should be kept in memory in order to improve our conventional framework in the sector, but they should not, in my view, be an obstacle to a generally positive process today. In any event, this bill on air services, welcome and expected, will fully contribute to the stability, strengthening and development of the economic and tourist relations between France and these two countries, which are important partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u322	Mr Bruno Joncour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u323	Our Assembly has before it a bill authorizing the approval of two air services agreements with Chad and Angola. As the rapporteur has pointed out, France is already a signatory to some 100 such agreements, which result in the reciprocal recognition of air rights between the parties. These two conventions signed with Chad and Angola at the beginning of 2018 demonstrate the ease with which this type of agreement is negotiated: the terms, essentially technical, essentially reflect the standards arising from the application of the multilateral convention of 7 December 1944 on international civil aviation. These agreements are particularly important as standards need to be developed, both in terms of economic rules for ensuring free competition and rules for the safety and security of air traffic. Although this type of agreement is not essential for the establishment of air links between two countries, these services should be provided within a sufficiently stable legal framework to enable companies to develop. These agreements are also of particular relevance in that they enable closer links to be established with the countries concerned. France thus maintains long-standing and important relations with Chad. It is one of our major partners in the Sahel in the fight against terrorism and our armed forces are fighting side by side in many theatres of operation. As Chad's first economic partner, France remains heavily invested in the country's development, particularly through its development policy. The commitments of the Agence française de développement amounted to €68 million in 2017 and €77 million in 2018. As far as air services are concerned, the previous agreement signed in 1963 appears to be obsolete: it was therefore imperative to draw up a new one. The agreement that we are about to ratify should thus help our national airline to move its traffic to Chad upwards. As far as Angola is concerned, the situation is different, because we have no agreement with Angola on air services. Establishing a stable legal framework should enable us to develop our economic and political relations with that country, which has a strategic position in that region of Africa. Ultimately, this type of agreement ensures compliance with civil aviation safety and security standards. Lastly, the Convention with Chad provides for a commitment to the protection of the environment. As we pointed out in committee, these agreements should include this type of clause in the future and we should put an end to the exemption from financial taxation for air transport. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u324	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u325	Qatar Airways would be ready to enter into the capital of the Angolan national airline, TAAG. The interest of a large Gulf company demonstrates that strong growth in air traffic in Africa is expected in the coming decades. It therefore seems appropriate to examine the two agreements that are now before us. The latter essentially take over the standards resulting from the application of the multilateral convention on international civil aviation of 7 December 1944, known as the Chicago Convention. It should be noted, however, that a number of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 2002 enshrine the Union's competence in international air transport, requiring Member States to notify the European Commission in advance when concluding air service agreements. All speakers recalled that France and Chad had close bilateral relations, starting with intensive cooperation in the fight against terrorism: the staff of Operation Barkhane was in fact located in N'Djamena. France is also one of Chad's main trading partners, with exports to Chad reaching EUR 87 million in 2017. France is also the first bilateral development partner in Chad, excluding humanitarian and food aid. The commitments of the Agence française de développement amounted to €77 million in 2018. The report recalls that, with regard to air relations, Air France operates four flights a week between Paris and N'Djamena, and no other airlines operate direct flights between Chad and Europe. In 2018, air traffic rose to 38,000 passengers, half of whom subsequently took a connecting flight. As far as Angola is concerned, France maintains a sustained political dialogue with that country, including on regional security issues. In 2015, France was Angola's ninth largest supplier, while Angola was the third largest recipient of French direct investment in Africa with €5 billion, with trade dominated by hydrocarbons and crude oil. As for air relations, since 2017, France has been offering three flights a week between Paris and Luanda, with air traffic of 58000 passengers per year. The two agreements essentially incorporate the provisions contained in the ICAO model air agreement: they grant a right of overflight, a right of call, and a right to operate international air services. The Parties shall also recognize the validity of airworthiness certificates, certificates of fitness and licences issued by the other country, as well as the possibility of conducting ground inspections of aircraft in order to ensure that they are in good condition. Finally, the two agreements provide for a customs and tax exemption on aircraft equipment, oil and lubricants and spare parts. This tax exemption for kerosene has generated very critical opinions in committee, with several groups agreeing on the need to review these clauses. I therefore hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss it again in the near future. [[Mrs Marielle de Sarnez applauds]] In view of these elements, the members of the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of these agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u326	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u327	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u328	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u329	The next item is the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on air services, the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Costa Rica on air services and the agreement on air services between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mozambique (No. 1174, 1798).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u330	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u331	These three air services agreements have the same architecture and overall economy as the two previous agreements. However, they cover different geographical areas, as they have been concluded with Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Mozambique respectively. These three states are becoming islands of stability – or stabilization, for Mozambique – in regions that remain politically uncertain. The agreements will facilitate and increase our political, economic and cultural exchanges with these three countries. I'll say a word about each one of them. Ethiopia, with a population of 94 million, is, very clearly, a new regional power. The year 2018 was marked by some spectacular events, including a rapprochement with Eritrea to resolve the aftermath of the conflict between the two countries, with cross-visits by the executive heads. The President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, made an important bilateral visit, which led to a number of projects and cooperations. Bilateral trade is very dynamic, and traffic between Paris and Addis Ababa is growing very strongly. Allow me at this stage to have an emotional thought for our compatriots who died during the crash of the Boeing 737 MAX of Ethiopian Airlines. I had the opportunity to meet the families. We accompany them as best we can in this ordeal. Costa Rica, a Central American country, is known for its democratic stability, for its long-standing and resolute commitment to the environment, and for one exception, for its lack of an army. We have a lot to share with him, especially to promote multilateralism, which is, as you know, being tested at the global level right now. Costa Rica is clearly one of our allies in the defence of multilateralism. Mozambique, which had been marked by a civil war, would be undergoing general elections in a few weeks. We have developed stronger and stronger ties with him. French investment in Mozambique is increasing and this trend will continue. Therefore, all that is likely to facilitate trade with that country, in particular the development of air transport, is positive. I will not expand further, Mr President, because we have already discussed the philosopher of these agreements. I have said how much France is committed to taking environmental issues into account, hence the decisions taken by the ecological defence council on 9 July. We are also working hard in European and international bodies to make progress on the taxation of kerosene, mentioned earlier by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It's a fight that I believe brings us all together. I hope you will follow us, ladies and gentlemen, for the approval of these agreements.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u332	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u333	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u334	The three agreements that are the subject of this bill fall within a very traditional type of international instrument, air services agreements. France has signed them with some 100 States or autonomous territories. Their clauses are generally very similar, as they essentially reflect the stipulations of a model drawn up by the International Civil Aviation Organization, ICAO, a United Nations institution created in 1944. In this case, these are three agreements concluded in 2017, with Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Mozambique respectively. These three States are not part of our main air partners, but they are dynamic countries with which there are great opportunities for development. With a population of 94 million, Ethiopia is increasingly emerging as a pole of stability and a regional power in East Africa, sadly marked by crises, civil wars, humanitarian disasters and terrorism. It is a very dynamic country with an average annual growth rate of 10 per cent over the last decade and has become the fourth largest market for French exports to sub-Saharan Africa. In addition, Ethiopia plays a crucial stabilizing role: it is the first troop contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations, with nearly 8400 peacekeepers deployed, and one of the first refugee host countries in Africa, with about 900000 people hosted. Finally, Ethiopia experienced several major and very positive political developments last year: many imprisoned opponents were released; the state of emergency has been lifted; relations with Eritrea have been normalized. President Emmanuel Macron's recent visit paid tribute to all these developments. In the airfield, Ethiopia has a fast-growing airline with Ethiopian Airlines, which currently operates a daily direct service between Addis Ababa and Paris. Traffic between the two capitals has more than doubled since 2013, approaching 200,000 passengers per year. Although Costa Rica is modest in size, its relative prosperity, democratic stability, variety of landscapes and protected natural areas, as well as its tourist appeal, have given it the significant nickname of "Switzerland of Central America".
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u335	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u336	Every year, 3 million tourists visit this country, including 700,000 French. It should also be noted that Costa Rica has observer status with the International Organization of la Francophonie. It is the only Latin American country where French is compulsory in secondary education. Air France has operated since 2016 a direct line between Paris and San José, which has been progressively strengthened: we are four flights a week. Direct traffic exceeded 700,000 passengers last year, and projections show a steady increase. Mozambique had a difficult history, with a long war of independence and then a civil war almost twenty years after the Portuguese withdrew in 1975. However, the current period is at ease. On the other hand, the country attracts investors' attention because of the huge offshore gas reserves located off its coast. According to some forecasts, it could receive $100 billion in investment in the 2020s and grow by 20 per cent per year. The strengthening of our ties with Mozambique is therefore strategic, in a region where France has a historical presence. For the time being, our exchanges with this country are limited in all areas, including air traffic. There has been no line between France and Mozambique since the late 1990s. Annual traffic on connecting flights is estimated at 8000 passengers per year. We have another important reason not to be disinterested in Mozambique: it is for us a neighbour, because France, as I recall, is present in the south-west of the Indian Ocean, in La Réunion, in Mayotte and in the three so-called Scattered islands of the Mozambique Canal – Europa, Bassas da India and Juan de Nova – whose exclusive economic zones are adjacent to that of Mozambique. I come to the clauses of the three agreements themselves, which are very similar in that there is a standard model. In the three texts, the two partners decide to develop their air relations, committing themselves to authorise, under certain conditions, the airlines designated by the partner to operate lines between the two countries. Provisions are intended to guarantee certain rights of airlines, including the right to open commercial offices, the right to share codes with other airlines and the right to repatriate their commercial revenues. Anticompetitive practices are prohibited. Important aspects are devoted to security and safety. They include the possibility of inspecting aircraft on the ground and of taking unilateral precautionary measures if problems are detected. In fact, only one clause in these agreements can be debated, the one on the tax exemption for onboard kerosene – we have already mentioned it. It is of course legitimate to question the taxation of different fuels and the contribution of different modes of transport to the necessary reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. However, the exemption of fuel from international flights is global and has been endorsed since the beginning of the development of commercial aviation by the 1944 Chicago Convention. Therefore, we know that any evolution can only be gradual and multilateral. Bilateral agreements are not the place where the existing one can be called into question. There is a need for European positions and discussions within ICAO or other multilateral forums. There has already been some progress at ICAO in controlling greenhouse gas emissions, which, however, remain insufficient. It is within this framework that we must continue to act. In this context, I would point out that the Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, Brune Poirson, confirmed six months ago in Brussels, alongside Belgium and the Netherlands, that "the air sector should make a full contribution to the fight against pollution" and called for a carbon tax on air tickets or a kerosene tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u337	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u338	This fundamental subject will, I believe, soon be on the European agenda, since the European Commission's Directorate-General for Transport has recently commissioned a study on this subject. I come back to the main purpose of my report: the three agreements in question will allow us to strengthen our links and our trade and tourism exchanges with three developing countries; They will encourage, directly and indirectly, the economy and growth of France and its three partners. It should be noted that they include the usual body of final provisions found in international agreements: the possibility of consultations and possible amendments by way of amendment, the conditions for entry into force, the conditions for possible denunciation, the obligation to register with ICAO. I conclude with the prospects for the entry into force of these agreements. In Costa Rica, the ratification process has not yet been completed. In Ethiopia, the ratification bill is expected to be put to the vote in the near future. In Mozambique, the necessary internal procedures were completed in November 2017. [[Michel Fanget applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to pass the bill authorizing the approval of these three very classic bill agreements with future partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u339	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u340	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u341	The three agreements before us have the same purpose as those concluded with Chad and Angola, which we have just discussed: to clarify the legal framework for commercial air traffic with our partners. In his excellent presentation, the rapporteur, Christophe Di Pompeo, recalled the prospects for Ethiopia, Mozambique and Costa Rica, a country with very high development potential. He also observed that the 100 air agreements signed by France contained very similar clauses, as they reflected the model developed by ICAO. However, these agreements are very useful, since they specify the prerogatives of the administrations in the field of air transport security and security control, which is obviously indispensable. They also provide guarantees of fair economic treatment to our airlines. The subject of zero-rating kerosene remains sensitive – I mentioned it before and I come back to it. We must work to change practices in this area. Air transport must be integrated into the common commitments on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and, therefore, take its full share of the obligations, including financial obligations, imposed on the emitting sectors of these gases. It is necessary to transform commercial aviation in order to solve this problem. France and Europe must be at the forefront of the issue. Few moments in the history of aeronautics have required a technological revolution of such magnitude. We will soon introduce a national eco-tax on airline tickets. Action to that end must also be pursued at the international level. The provisions of the bilateral agreements which provide for exemption from kerosene come from a model drawn up by ICAO. Rejecting them on a case-by-case basis would make no sense. It is within the multilateral framework that we must act. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] We could build on what is being done within the OECD to combat tax evasion by developing new binding multilateral legal instruments that would be binding on all existing bilateral agreements. This is a great field of action for our diplomacy. I thank the Secretary of State for having confirmed, in his opening remarks, that France would continue to engage and act in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u342	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor, so we are listening again.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u343	[[Smile]] As much as it takes, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u344	It's stakhanovism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u345	We listen to you with the same pleasure, Mr. Lecoq!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u346	Say it with enthusiasm, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u347	I said it in the right neutral tone...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for saying that you were happy to listen to me again on these international issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u349	We all have this pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u350	With regard to these air agreements with Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Mozambique, I repeat what I have already said about the agreements of the same nature with Chad and Angola – since this was not a public vote, I would like to point out that we voted against the bill authorizing their approval: Communist MPs are, as a matter of principle, opposed to all free trade agreements whose sole aim is to deregulate sectors that would rather require international regulation. We must take very seriously the environmental problems posed by air transport in the world if we are to minimize climate change. Indeed, climate change is increasing and increasingly violent. President of the friendship group dedicated to Mozambique, I can testify that this country has been hit twice this year, almost consecutively, by natural disasters of an unprecedented scale, disasters whose frequency is expected to increase as a result of global warming. Tropical cyclones Idai and Kenneth struck Mozambique on 14 March and 25 April. The former devastated the centre of the country and caused more than 1,000 deaths and 2 million victims; He literally scratched off the map several cities, making the coast a real field of ruins. The second, with gusts reaching 200 kilometres per hour, affected a less populated area but nevertheless caused 45 deaths and 250,000 displaced persons, and destroyed several thousand homes and shops. All these human losses are a consequence of climate change; We must be aware of that. Following the passage of Hurricane Idai, France reported that it had sent humanitarian assistance from Reunion, including an aircraft carrying sixty-five tons of emergency equipment, such as potash units, electrical equipment, tents and food. [[Mr Lemoyne acquiesce]] Mr. Secretary of State, it would be interesting, after a few months, for the Government to inform the national representative of the consequences of this emergency intervention. What about the situation in Mozambique today? Moreover, this catastrophic situation comes just a few months before the general elections, scheduled for 15 October, and complicates the situation. Anticipating the elections, the two main parties, the RENAMO – Mozambican National Resistance – transformed into a political party at the end of the civil war that torn the country from 1976 to 1992, and the Frelimo – the Liberation Front of Mozambique – decided to sign a peace agreement on August 6. It consists of two points: the integration into the army and police of more than 5000 fighters of the Renamo and a constitutional change that allows the governors of the regions to be elected by direct suffrage, allowing the integration of the Renamo into the political game. Even if it seems fragile, this agreement is to be welcomed: it gives rise to a very important hope for the reconstruction of the country. It will also go through its deleveraging, which may begin with the gas reserves discovered off Mozambique, which are among the world's largest reserves: 5000 billion cubic metres, the consumption of France for more than a hundred years. Gas multinationals estimate that the country will produce 32 million tons of liquefied natural gas each year from 2024 to Asian and European markets. With the exploitation of its gas reserves, Mozambique will become the world's third largest gas exporter and its energy policy will have important stakes. The circle of reflection "Multinationals and Human Rights", on the responsibility of order-giving companies, which I co-direct with Mireille Clapot and Dominique Potier, is concerned about the political, economic and ecological consequences of the operation of such a site, in the context of this country. Will multinationals be able to create environmentally friendly projects and pay all their taxes, without resorting to tax evasion that harms people so much? The gas projects will have important consequences for the inhabitants. Will Mozambique be able to share this cake with its people, who are in dire need of help, especially after the two cyclones have passed? His situation is all the more difficult as he is subjected to regular attacks by jihadist groups: this is another issue for Mozambique, although little has been mentioned. I did not speak on the current situation in Ethiopia and Costa Rica, but I felt it my responsibility to mention the one in Mozambique, which therefore raises many questions. Dominique Potier, Mireille Clapot and I will be vigilant about the answers that will be provided. [[Christian Hutin applauds]] As you understand, the Communist Group will not vote for this agreement, for the same reasons that it did not vote for the agreement with the Republic of Chad and the Republic of Angola, namely its opposition to the liberalisation agreements and their environmental consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u351	Mrs Sonia Krimi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u352	I will first recall the context of these three agreements. They cover air services between France and respectively Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Mozambique, and essentially take up the provisions contained in the model air agreement proposed by ICAO – the International Civil Aviation Organisation –, a specialized agency of the United Nations, established by the 1944 Chicago Convention. These three agreements have many environmental aspects. They therefore provide for the possibility of exploiting, for each party concerned, the first "free air", as defined by ICAO: freedom of overflight without landing, freedom of non-commercial stopover, freedom to board or land passengers, cargo and mail, from or to the State which has designated the air carrier. These agreements were made necessary by the absence of a bilateral agreement between France and Costa Rica on air relations. I also recall that air relations with Mozambique and Ethiopia are the subject of respective agreements signed in 1991 and 2008. An agreement was signed between France and Ethiopia in 1970, but was subsequently denounced by France in 1979. These are legally non-binding acts. With regard to Ethiopia, the establishment of legal and stable air relations is part of a strategy to strengthen the French presence in eastern Africa, in countries where it was generally absent. The President of the Republic visited Djibouti, Ethiopia and Kenya from 11 to 14 March, as part of an unprecedented tour for a President of the Republic in this part of the continent. As he pointed out, "the plates are moving in this wider region. It is the most populous in Africa and focuses on the continent's three major challenges: the demographic challenge, the challenge of radical Islamism and jihadism, and the challenge of development. » Ethiopia is also at the heart of a profound transformation initiated by the Reform Prime Minister: peace with neighbouring Eritrea, democratization, parity within the Government, fight against corruption and modernization of the country's economy. The French President stressed at this meeting that "we want to carry the renewal that is yours and take part in this new page of Ethiopia's history" – using a cooperative relationship, not subordination. As far as Mozambique is concerned, the air agreement can also be part of a strengthening of France's presence. However, the agreement is expected to be of limited scope initially: there is no longer a line between France and Mozambique since the late 1990s and indirect traffic between the two countries amounts to only 8000 passengers per year. Costa Rica is a stable and attractive State in a region where France is also absent. Air France has been operating since November 2016 a direct link between Paris and San José, which has been progressively strengthened with four weekly rotations. Personally, I advise you to vote for this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u353	Go on, argue to convince us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u354	...for two reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u355	Look at the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u356	For us, these three agreements are important because they define a legal framework that places signatory states on an equal footing, not a subordination relationship.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u357	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u358	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Christian Hutin applauds]] They confirm European law by including modern clauses on safety, security and respect for the environment, and I say that, ladies and gentlemen, by looking at the left.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u359	You didn't convince me, though, even though you're Norman!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u360	Mr Michel Fanget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u361	The Assembly has before it a bill authorizing the ratification of three air services agreements with Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Mozambique. As the rapporteur has pointed out, France is already a signatory to some 100 such agreements, which result in the reciprocal recognition of air rights between the parties. Most of the time, the signing of such conventions does not pose a problem, since the terms of these agreements are essentially technical, incorporating the standards arising from the application of the multilateral convention on international civil aviation of 7 December 1944 known as the "Chicago Convention". These agreements are particularly important in measures where standards need to be increased, both in terms of economic rules, which ensure free competition, and rules that ensure the safety and security of air traffic. Although this type of agreement is not essential for the establishment of air links between two countries, these services should be provided with a legal framework that is sufficiently stable for the companies to develop. These agreements are also of particular significance as they also allow for stronger ties with the countries concerned – primarily Ethiopia, a country to which the President of the Republic recently visited, the first of a French head of state in nearly half a century. We must not overlook the links that such an agreement can secure between our two countries. The security issue remains of course, but it is one more step in the rapprochement that we are making with one of the two African countries that are undertaking a very large-scale internal reform, also one of the most populous, and that is expected to play a major role in the region in the coming decades. The President of the Republic thus recalled the deep and ancient ties that bind us to the Republic of Ethiopia, whose millennial culture is one of the most beautiful testimonies of our common humanity. More pragmatically, this agreement will have to support the very strong growth in air traffic since the end of the terrible wars that have bloodshed the region. The same applies to Costa Rica, a stable country in a moving Latin America, with which we share a vision of possible resolutions on major international issues. As for Mozambique, its strait is now strategic in an Indian Ocean that will become again in the coming decades the heart of world trade, by sea of course, but also by air. Our scattered territories in the region need our support to continue their regional integration. [[Mr. Dino Cinieri applauds]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will of course vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u362	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u363	On the bill as a whole, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u364	[[Madame de Sarnez smiles and acquiesces]] You will have noticed that we have almost managed to finish in time, despite the end of the global democracy in this House, since we have lost five minutes of speaking time. So we won't like it if you give us five minutes in the years, months or weeks to come – I'd find it pretty nice. Now everyone does what he wants. Why is this convention important? First, it concerns three countries. Ethiopia, first. We went there together, Madam President: we went to visit the headquarters of the African Union, and I think the moment we then lived...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u365	It's none of our business!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u366	[[Mrs de Sarnez acquiesce]] ...was a nice time, made of very interesting discussions and observations. We met extremely motivated people, some of whom came to see us while they were sick, remember? We have had moments of great exchange. The Ethiopian Airlines company is exceptional – you had to negotiate with the National Assembly, because Air France was not at the same level. I'm saying it so that things are clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u367	There's still nothing to be proud of!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u368	That is how it happened. Ethiopian Airlines' fares were cheaper, the hub of this country is beautiful. This agreement with Ethiopia is exceptional. The case of Costa Rica is different – it is a second nation for me. My 20s, 25s and 30s are in love with this beautiful country, very green, virtuously green. It should not be forgotten, however, that the hub is in Panama and that it is very US. My colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq spoke about Mozambique; I have nothing to add. If this country encounters difficulties, there is also a willingness to move forward; the situation is more complex. My group will of course vote in favour of this wonderful agreement. I will bring a flat though: are we schizophrenic? The agreements we are discussing today guarantee the exemption of all taxes. There will be no VAT, no tax on airline tickets. What about the carbon balance? Two days ago, I was listening to a two-and-a-half hour program on France info. It was learned that a ticket between Paris and New York costs 226 euros, or four cents per kilometre. I am in favour of the democratisation of air transport. However, there is a form of schizophrenia here. Let us consider the carbon balance, when we propose flights between Paris and New York at such a price... At some point, consideration will have to be given to the contradiction between environmental concern and the promotion of air transport. [[Christine Pirès-Beaune applauds]] In any event, we will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u369	The general discussion is closed. The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u370	At the end of this very long meeting at which we discussed five conventions, let me thank the Government, and in particular its representative Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, who responded and committed himself on his behalf to important issues, which I thank him for. I would also like to thank each and every colleague present throughout this afternoon and the beginning of the evening for their attendance, their commitment and their conviction. I am always very pleased that the conventions are an opportunity, in this House, to devote time to foreign policy, that is to say, to the affairs of the world. I have the firm conviction that the so-called "foreign" business is absolutely not for the citizens of the world that we are: it concerns us all, as it concerns each of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u371	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u372	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u373	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 28 Number of votes cast 28 Absolute majority 15 For adoption 25 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2019-09-18-E2008.u374	Next sitting, Tuesday, 24 September afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Votes by public ballot on proposals for an ordinary and organic law aimed at clarifying various provisions of electoral law; Discussion of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
