ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u2	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor to put his question, No. 637, concerning the exit from the classification of communes in the Rhône in a simple disadvantaged area.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u3	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, my question concerns the assistance that can be given to farms in the south of the Rhône department, which has lost some of the compensatory allowances for natural handicaps since 2019. In 2018, France had to review the classification of the territories to define the simple disadvantaged areas, or ZDS. This new definition translates into a loss of European aid for all agricultural holdings in many municipalities in the agricultural area south of the Rhône department. I warn you about the incomprehension and anger that the new ranking has aroused among farmers and local elected representatives of this territory. I tell you very sincerely: I understand this anger. Indeed, in the case of the communes of Haies, Échalas, Trêves, Longes or Loire-sur-Rhône, the situation is all the more incomprehensible since these territories are part of the Pilat Regional Natural Park, of which all the other communes have kept their classification in ZDS, while having the same characteristics: livestock farming and the same and difficult pedoclimatic context, reinforced by the notable effects of climate change. At the time of the announcement of the new ranking, support for farms leaving this support scheme was mentioned. The services of DDT – the departmental directorate of the territories – of the Rhône have begun to offer diagnostics. I am also aware that it is surely necessary to accompany these farms towards a transition enabling them to generate additional income. Mr Minister, you know our farmers and our agriculture well, you are the first defender of the farm France, but believe me, on this plateau of the south of the Rhône that is suffering, we need concrete and credible perspectives, a shared vision so that our farmers can continue to live on their work, and that we, as citizens, can enjoy both their quality products and the landscapes they maintain and sculpt throughout the year. What effective aid do you intend to provide as early as 2019 to these farmers heavily affected by the loss of these aids, who also have to deal with the impact of climate change?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u5	Mr Fugit, as you know, the revision of the delimitation of the ZDS is a European obligation. This revision was the subject of a long and sometimes painful work, since the 1976 zoning was well anchored and accepted by all. New criteria had to be established to take the various French situations into account as best as possible, while ensuring their robustness and fairness of application throughout the country. This work is now over. On 27 February the European Commission formally approved the national framework as amended by the new zoning. The national implementing texts are in the process of being signed, for entry into force on 31 March 2019, i.e. in a few days. The zoning has been designed in its entirety, on the basis of criteria applying uniformly throughout the territory, in order to target the most difficult areas. It has also been designed to meet the regulatory requirement that no more than 10 per cent of the territory be classified under specific constraints. It is now a matter of focusing on the next phase, accompanying the exits, seeking locally, as close as possible to the ground, to put in place the most appropriate tools for the operators concerned. France's recent discussions with the European Union have led to a significant improvement in the arrangements for accompanying exiters. This aid will be calculated on the basis of the amount of the ICHN – the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps – of the 2014-2020 programming, not that of the previous programming, as originally planned. I had committed myself to it; We got it. France will implement the new possibilities offered by this text and will retain the highest possible amount of compensation for outgoing farmers, i.e. 80% of the new reference in 2019, then 40% of this reference in 2020 – I have obtained these 40% for 2020 instead of the 20% planned. Beyond zoning, the criteria for granting ICHN have been confirmed by the European Commission. Thus, we will not have to set up plant ICHN in the ZDS, as some seemed to fear. Furthermore, the specific modulations for ovine and caprine producers are not changed. The existing sub-zoning for the so-called Piedmont regions will also not be modified. In addition, I have asked all DDT, including the Rhône, to go back to the land projects worked with the chambers of agriculture in order to provide maximum support for possible conversion routes. The reform of the ZDS has caused a considerable stir on the territory, I know very well. It turns out that 6000 municipalities are entering the scheme; Of course, these do not make any noise – that is not the subject. On the contrary, there is a great deal of criticism of those who come out of it; They are right, as you rightly said, but more fairness must be introduced. I believe that the measures I have just announced are in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u6	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u7	Minister, thank you for being aware of the problem and for making these announcements. I invite you to meet the farmers of the plateau du Sud du Rhône. It would be all the more interesting if you could also discuss with tree growers, wine growers and marketers in the department who are working to reduce the use of plant protection products. This would therefore give us an opportunity to take stock of the use of glyphosate, and also to see how important the consequences of climate change are and require support in such areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u8	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor to put his question, No 647, on rural veterinarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u9	While they already have to deal for themselves with medical deserts, many breeders in the Oise, like those in other rural territories, are now confronted with veterinary deserts for their flocks. This shortage of practitioners is reaching record levels – less than 25% in one year in my department – and poses great difficulties for farmers and even causes drama on some farms. The law obliges the use of veterinarians, who move less and less, for lack of time, of course, since they are fewer, but also for lack of sufficient remuneration for acts, while the care of domestic animals is much more profitable. Veterinarians are indispensable, especially as they contribute to a strong expectation of our compatriots, who demand that we produce differently and locally. In this context, many farmers feel destitute and need to rely on their experience to practice self-diagnosis. They only call the practitioner as a last resort, especially since the cost, not only of travel but also of telephone consultation, is very high. This is not acceptable; It can't last. Many local initiatives are identified to address this problem, but it is also and above all necessary for the State to assume its responsibilities in order to ensure continuity of care and effective networking of the territory. While in January 2017, a roadmap for the period 2017-2020, comprising some 30 actions grouped into eight strategic axes, was implemented, it must be noted that two years later it did not produce the expected effects, far from it. As for the report due in the last quarter of 2019 following the mission entrusted to the General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas, it will report to the Greek calends the operational measures that were to be taken immediately. Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, there is an urgent need to act before the French agricultural fabric is completely and irreparably torn apart. The French breeders make our rural territories live and participate in their attractiveness, therefore in their future, as much as they embody a legacy that we must preserve. Let us not forget them; They're counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u11	Mr Minot, thank you for this very serious question. I spoke yesterday with all the representatives of the veterinary profession, because I know how sensitive the subject you are dealing with is in all departments, especially in your Oise, as well as in Creuse. There is a problem of recruitment, we are well aware of it. During the agricultural fair, I launched a major recruitment plan for 20,000 new students to learn or join our agricultural high schools. More people need to move towards these professions, especially as a veterinarian. On the other hand, we are seeing more and more that the new veterinarians are no longer moving towards the countryside, but rather towards the city. I do not want to oppose each other, but the phenomenon deserves to be pointed out. As you indicated, a roadmap has been published, with eight strategic directions and many directions. I want to see her again to make her more effective. I have made a commitment to the profession as a whole to do so in the coming days, in order to make it more effective, more efficient, because we need to move forward. As you have also pointed out, the CGAAER – the General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas – will submit its report shortly; It will not be Greek calends, but at the end of 2019. I think it's important. I am taking this case with me, because I am convinced that, in our rural areas, we must not allow veterinary deserts comparable to medical deserts to develop. They deserve better than that. I want to greet the farmers, who are doing a lot of work. Many conventions are signed with veterinarians, which can be called, if necessary, when the breeder can no longer deal with a problem alone. Tomorrow, will veterinarians move around again at two o'clock in the morning because a calving is going wrong, to turn a matrix or practice a caesarean? That is the issue raised by your question. Know that I am totally dedicated to responding to it. An inventory of veterinary demography is being prepared. In the same vein, a mission was entrusted to the APCA – Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Agriculture – in order to draw up a picture of the situation by sector. I think we'll move on. I hope that we will also work with local and regional authorities, which have a very important role to play. In addition, this winter we dealt with the GDS file, the health defence groups. In short, we know that this is a real subject. Respect for animal welfare has become absolutely essential. The breeders work in this way in a remarkable way: I do not know a breeder who does not like his herd, his cattle, and who does not work for animal welfare. I want to pay tribute to the farmers, who reduced the use of antibiotics by 40% last year. All this goes in the right direction. I repeat, Mr. Minot, the subject of medical demography is a real subject. I hope to give you very precise answers in the coming weeks: we cannot accept veterinary deserts in our rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u12	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u13	Minister, I take note of your voluntarism. However, in this and other areas, only the results will be counted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u14	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u15	So I expect you to provide me with additional information in the coming weeks. Know that the agricultural world is counting on you, because there is a real urgency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u16	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor to put his question, No 649, on environmental challenges for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u17	Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Food, I want to ask you about the national policy to be pursued in the agricultural sector in the light of the environmental challenges and challenges before us. Water quality, soil conservation and the maintenance of biodiversity are essential elements that must guide farming policies. On the other hand, I do not want to ignore the global warming that will disrupt ways of doing business in agriculture, a sector that will also have to meet CO requirements but also better control its water needs. Many agricultural practices will therefore have to change. This movement is already under way, with bio, the development of conservation agriculture or, in the long run, the cessation of the use of phytopharmacy in agriculture and the arrival of new methods of protection such as biocontrol. This necessary adaptation of agriculture, whether desired or not, involves heavy investment in advanced technologies involving robots, drones and specific equipment which can, for example, replace chemical weed removal. This also involves research, which will have to be able to offer farmers varieties of plants resistant to bio-abusive organisms, for example, by using mutagenesis, thus limiting the intake of chemicals. Minister, in the face of these challenges, are you prepared to accompany with appropriate commitments the necessary agricultural change and to support research in order to propose sustainable alternatives to the use of phytopharmacy in agriculture?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u18	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u19	Mr Menuel, your question, on which all parliamentarians and the executive are working, is both an agricultural issue and a question of society: what agriculture do we want for tomorrow? The demand of our citizens is always the same: we want to eat to our hunger, to enjoy the best possible food independence and the most effective health safety, and at the same time to get out of total dependence on plant health products – you are right to say that this is indispensable. We have to do all of this at once. To achieve this, two main lines of action are needed. We must first invest in research. What will agriculture be like tomorrow? What's his future? How will we grow? The Government and the vast majority of parliamentarians are responding: the agro-ecological transition, which we must base on agronomy, from another way of cultivating land, from better soil rotation, etc. – you know all this as well as I do. It is then necessary to rely on private research. When I opened the international exhibition of agricultural machinism, I realized that the French agro-equipment sector is at all remarkable: it develops mechanical systems that will save up to 80% of products, which is absolutely remarkable! It is now necessary to ensure that these agro-equipment can be put into operation on French agricultural areas. Of course, we must also base ourselves on other developments. You're talking about new breeding practices, NBTs – New Breaking Techniques, or new plant breeding techniques – that have to comply with the GMO regulations. A judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in July 2018 considers that these new practices must be in line with the regulation of GMOs derived from transgenesis. The interpretation of this opinion raises questions as the European regulation on GMOs is not adapted to these new techniques; The detection of NBTs, in particular, poses difficulties. Discussions are therefore under way with the European Commission and a report from the European Union reference laboratory is expected on this issue. In its March 2018 opinion on new plant improvement techniques, the INRA Ethics Committee – Institut national de la recherche agronomique –, the CIRAD – Centre for International Cooperation in Agronomic Research – and the IFREMER – Institut français de recherche pour l'exploitation de la mer – recommends both to be vigilant about the forms of economic and social agriculture prepared by the publishing of plant genomes, and to reserve an opening in research approaches and themes, so as to explore also the resources offered by alternative techniques. In this respect, I can go along with you, honourable Member. More broadly, the question of our agriculture of tomorrow arises: are we prepared collectively to accept some of these techniques to help reduce plant protection products and thus promote a more sustainable agriculture? This debate will have to take place shortly, integrating scientific, technical, environmental, societal and ethical issues. Your question is really a matter of topicality; Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u20	Mr Gérard Menuel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u21	Minister, I share a number of points that you have just made, in particular with regard to private research through mechanization, which must be supported. However, I would like to emphasise varietal research, which will make it possible to severely restrict the use of phytopharmacy in agriculture. This research needs support. However, current events have shown us that mowers will break the national search for large cooperative or private groups; These behaviours will have to be stopped. As for the debate on GMOs, we have had it in the past, and I believe that it is now totally outdated. He is behind us, but before us the problem of mutagenesis arises. Research must also engage in this sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u23	I would remind you that mutagenesis has nothing to do with GMOs, because no input of external genetic material changes the new plants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u24	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor to put her question, No 654, on the difficulties of the better ship industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u25	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to draw your attention to the difficulties of a well-known and profitable sector: the better ship industry. My colleagues in the Hauts-de-France are just as concerned as I am because, beyond the recent climatic conditions, which, as you know, have affected its yield, our country's beef sector is experiencing a difficult period, for two reasons: the end of sugar quotas leads to a sharper than expected fall in sugar prices; the consumption of sugar is expected to decrease as we do everything to restrict it in the diet – which is a good thing. The planned closure of the Südzucker plants is a tangible manifestation of these events. Recall that in April 2018, the European Union banned three neonicotinoid substances, which are very harmful to bees: imidacloprid, thiamethoxam and clothianidine. However, 99% of beet seed used in France is treated with neonicotinoid substances. That is why twelve European States have already requested derogations. Because sugar beet is harvested before flowering, it does not pose a risk to pollinating insects. Moreover, our non-European competitors – Russia, the United States or Turkey – do not embarrass themselves with such health issues. Moreover, we are convinced that with the development of biofuels, the green gold of bioethanol, the sector is opening up new prospects. It is therefore essential for French agriculture and the French economy that it be preserved and sustained in the coming years. Minister, my question is twofold. What is the status of your exchanges with your European counterparts to reach a common position on neonicotinoids? What strategy should be put in place to support the French betteravier sector, so that it goes through this difficult period under the best possible conditions, while keeping the course of the reduction of plant protection products?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u26	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u27	Mrs Deprez-Audebert, answering all your questions in two minutes will be complicated! So I'm gonna try to get to the shortest. First of all, the situation of the sugar sector in the world is worrying, as the current difficulties are due to the overproduction of sugar and the sustainable reduction of costs. I will meet with representatives of the bettership industry in the hours or days to come to continue working. As far as Südzucker is concerned, I have already had the opportunity to speak. This German company has chosen to keep its sites in Germany and close sites in Poland and France. This can be understood, for reasons of restructuring, from the German point of view, but not from the French point of view. I find it unacceptable, with the executive as a whole, to choose to close the French sites by leaving staff inside to escape the PES – job security plans – and prevent a recovery. We are working to change Südzucker's position in order to make it possible to take over, because we believe, for our part, that the curve of sugar prices can change over the next few years and that there is an industrial possibility to move forward. The beef and sugar sector in France is not finished; It still has a future, I would like to reaffirm it in the Chamber this morning. As for the particular question you are asking about plant protection products, the decision was taken by France to ban the three neonicotinoid substances you mentioned. It seems to me to go in the right direction – I speak in front of Brune Poirson, who will not deny me. The fight to overcome dependence on plant protection products is absolutely essential in Europe and France. France is a leader in this field: it wants to be the first country in Europe to stop this dependence on neonicotinoid products, glyphosate and all plant protection products, it is absolutely essential. We are working to ensure that the European standard is not downwards, with a dumping logic, but upwards, so that all European countries using substances that we are going to ban in France do not contribute to unfair competition. This is the work that the President of the Republic has asked me to do with my European colleagues, ministers of agriculture, so that all countries can raise standards. We will all agree, I think, in this House that we must move towards an end to dependence on plant protection products, apply the precautionary principle, so that health is at the centre of our concerns without undermining agricultural economic sectors, including the sugar sector. That is precisely why we are working on alternatives. I referred earlier to agroecology, an area with which we are making good progress, and we will probably have news to announce in the coming weeks. In any case, please be assured, Madam Member, that we are watching: I myself, like milk on fire, monitor the situation of the sugar sector in France; I will not let a German company undermine the employment of hundreds of employees and the French sugar sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u28	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u29	Once again, there is a demonstration of the need for convergence and harmonisation at European level. It's really an indispensable fight, all the time. I would have liked you to answer also on bioethanol, this green gold, in particular, from the territory of Hauts-de-France. It's a nearby fuel, distributed in a short circuit, cheaper than the one that comes from far away.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u30	It's a fuel for the future, and we're going to make it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u31	The next speaker is Mr Laurent Furst, to put his question, No 651, on plastic waste and pollution of the oceans.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u32	Climate change and the decline in biodiversity are major issues for the future of humanity. Another subject seems to me to be more than essential: pollution of the oceans. The oceans are the cause of life on earth, they are a carbon pump and they produce oxygen. The oceans feed our world, which has 7 billion people and will soon number 9 billion. Yet, the oceans are suffering and deteriorating, especially as a result of plastic pollution. According to the publications, the figures vary, but we know that 55 kilos of plastics are produced annually per human being, that only 20% of the plastic is recycled and that 90% of the non-recycled or energy-recovered plastic ends at sea, mainly through rivers. We also know that plastic production could increase by 40% by 2030, that a plastic bag will take 450 years to disintegrate and a bottle of water or soda 1,000 years, and that, within 50 years, if nothing changes, the mass of plastic at sea will be greater than that of fish. We also know that the seventh continent, the plastic vortex, discovered in the North Pacific twenty-two years ago, is now followed by other clusters that form at the convergence of marine currents. We know four other essential things: plastic enters the food chain, which will not be without consequences for man, who will also increasingly need the world's fisheries resources; many iconic species of marine biodiversity, such as turtles or cetaceans, are affected by plastic ingestion, not to mention the deadly effects on seabirds; plastic at sea is difficult to recover, and actions undertaken in this area will have a communication dimension – useful in any case – rather than a real effect; Above all, we must stop this madness which puts nature and, in the end, man in danger. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, my question is not really about what France is doing in France, because we are not excellent, not very good. But goals have been set, which must be achieved quickly. This will allow us to speak up to what we are, that is, the second world maritime potential, with the French global maritime surface being equivalent to that of China and Mongolia combined. So these are my questions. What is France's action at the international level to change the situation and change the situation? Shouldn't a COP-type climate conference be triggered and a new international treaty on ocean pollution proposed? Does Europe exist on such a subject? Very concretely, is it possible to help poor countries hard hit by the proliferation of plastic to recover it in order to recycle it?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u33	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u34	First of all, Mr Furst, I thank you very much for your question, which is of fundamental importance. Unfortunately, little by little, our oceans are mutating; They are no longer what they were, and the phenomenon is likely to accelerate. You were rightly talking about waste, especially plastic waste, which is all too often found in the ocean. The Ellen MacArthur Foundation even states that, by 2050, there could be as much plastic waste as fish in our oceans. It is criminal, with respect to humanity as well as to biodiversity and the living beings that inhabit them. France's objective is at several levels. A first essential aspect should be stressed: once plastic waste is in the sea, it is too late! It is therefore on earth that we must change the economic system, change our ways of producing and consuming, in order to avoid the over-consumption of plastic objects that invade our daily lives, to which we are too accustomed and which, for many of them, end up in the oceans. France is therefore pursuing at national level an ambitious policy to combat plastic waste through, for example, a national pact on plastic packaging, the transformation of the economy with the development of the circular economy or a series of measures on which I hope to have time to return in my reply. But I want to talk to you about France's objective at the international level, because, you are right, a large part of plastic pollution comes from countries located mainly in Asia. France is also extremely active in this regard. First of all, the question of the high seas is essential. We must give status to this high seas. Humanity must give itself the means to protect it. Negotiations are under way and France is very active on this issue. Moreover, the French presidency of the G7 has just begun, and our country has made the fight against plastic pollution in the oceans and the preservation of marine biodiversity one of the priorities of its presidency. We want to set very concrete objectives. That is why we have changed our method: instead of having a communiqué signed by a set of countries, we want action; We want to create a coalition of at least 25% of the states involved in the fight against plastic pollution in the oceans. Similarly, at European level, we are bringing together countries – we will announce it in the coming months – to also engage in a pact against plastic to change practices on land. Finally, France is extremely mobilized alongside China, which will host the COP15 of biodiversity, which will be as important as COP21 was for the climate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u35	Mr Laurent Furst has the floor, for one word, because the time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u36	It seems essential to recall the following facts: Europe accounts for only 18% of the plastic produced in the world; Third-world countries do not really have a choice because there is no cold circuit for food and therefore food plastic is very important there; And it is above all this that we find in the oceans; Therefore, collection is important. But let me add, Madam Secretary of State, that although we do not belong to the same political family, on such essential matters, we are holding the same speech. It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u37	Thank you for that nice conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u38	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor to put his question, No. 632, on the green rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u39	"Have we started reducing our greenhouse gas emissions? The answer is no. Have we started to stop the erosion of biodiversity? The answer is no. Have we started to put ourselves in a position to stop the artificialisation of the soil? The answer is no." These words, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, you know them, of course: they were those of Minister Nicolas Hulot when he resigned. As the country's youth rises and you act for the climate, you continue the free trade policies, in breach of the, yet unambitious, commitments of COP21. As the country's youth rises and you act for the climate, you refuse to include in the law the prohibition of glyphosate. As the country's youth rises and you act for the climate, you postpone the energy transition. According to the climate experts, we only have 12 years left, not to green your program a little bit, but to change the economic model. The climate emergency cannot accommodate your small steps and your setbacks – I am convinced that it may be a difference between us. Ecology is not soluble in liberalism; I don't think it's more so in macroism – even though I see that ecologists from the trade fair join the ranks of La République on the way to election deadlines. You must know that, under treaties that prohibit over 3% of the deficit, our country cannot invest significantly, as it would have to, to meet the climate challenge. In Lille, peaks of pollution are among the most common in France: we are 60 days a year, while the WHO – the World Health Organization – considers the situation alarming beyond three days a year. The lack of ecological planning makes it possible to continue and facilitate ever more crazy urbanization projects. For example, the controversial project to develop the Saint-Sauveur wasteland perfectly illustrates the concrete race: Martine Aubry, mayor of Lille, and Damien Castelain, president of the metropolis, support the creation of an Olympic pool instead of one of the last unurbanised places in the city, which could constitute the real green lung demanded by many inhabitants, while a sterile opposition between the need for housing and the need to breathe is being played on the spot. The law for a state serving a trust society of July 2018 replaces the public inquiry procedure with a simple digital consultation for certain projects: under the pretext of simplifying, you actually make it more difficult for citizens to access the debate. Madam Secretary of State, the climate challenge is an assured threat to humanity if we enter by the law of the market. Why not put the green rule on the agenda, according to which nature would not be taken away more than what it can reconstruct? This is a real technical challenge for all humanity, for which, I believe, France can deploy all its technological capabilities, know-how and technical skills.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u40	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u41	You may be surprised, Mr Quatennens, but I agree with some of your conclusions: yes, the erosion of biodiversity is taking place more and more quickly; Yes, we must do much more, go faster and further in the fight against global warming, and that is also what the President of the Republic has said; I was on the side of youth and I will continue to be so because they are right to stand up and ask for a society that makes more sense and also a profound transformation of the economic system. That is exactly what our government is committed to. As "the youth of the country rises", as you say, you remain in the beautiful words. You're criticizing the "living room ecologists" but I see the ecology of the stage here. Yes, the economic system, this sometimes totally absurd capitalism and this finance that only works for itself must be fundamentally changed, and we have begun to do so, especially through the G7 presidency and our international commitment. The financial world must be at the service of the environment. In this connection, I was back in Brussels last week to defend the idea that climate risks should be taken into account as well as financial risks. Similarly, we want to transform the economic system, I had the opportunity to talk about it in my response to Laurent Furst, by changing our modes of production and consumption; To this end, the aim is to reduce the quantities of articles consumed, in particular plastic, by strongly encouraging recycling and promoting reuse as soon as possible, and the Government is pursuing a policy to this end, including through the national pact on plastic packaging. You see, what our country needs is actions, Mr. Member. It's good to talk about stage, but they don't tell us how to do it. We have to get into the debate on the method, start getting our hands dirty. Yes, that is the reality if we are to actively combat global warming and promote biodiversity. That's the point. When we stick to the main principles, of course we all agree, but now we have to get out of ideology. What solutions do you propose? What way to walk forward? I hear a lot of things about you, but I can do the same! It is indeed very comfortable, but when will you bring really concrete solutions? What you propose is sometimes like a green dictatorship! That's also what I hear through your comments on the green rule! I invite you to talk to the people who are facing the realities of climate change: we must reconcile certain imperatives – I am thinking of employment for families who risk losing it – and the acceleration of the fight against climate change. Because it's about thinking "at once" when you want to switch systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u42	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u43	That is the reality that must be taken into account when you are in a position to decide, and it is much more difficult than when you sit quietly on your bench.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u44	I call on everyone to ensure that the total speaking time, which, including the reply, cannot exceed six minutes, is respected, as there are thirty-three questions this morning. To Mr Adrien Quatennens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u45	I'll be as brief as possible, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, I regret that, at the end of your reply, you have used a political tone towards me when I really think that we are all, you and I understand, at the foot of the wall. You blame me for making a stand-off, but the solutions that my group is proposing would allow you to get out of the regime of incantation in which you, for your part, are standing. In answer to the previous question, you said that it was necessary to...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u46	The time has expired!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u47	...change patterns of production and consumption: I propose here a really applicable method, consisting of establishing a political rule that would require movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u48	I ask you to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u49	I'll finish. Furthermore, you must know, Madam Secretary of State, that it is not possible to do what you call your wishes without investing heavily, but that the current framework prevents us from doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u50	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u52	I'm finishing, Mr. President. The difference between you and me on this subject is that, unlike you, I do not believe that, in the face of the temporal urgency, small streams can make big rivers: our country needs great political decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u53	I want to answer it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u54	In one sentence, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u55	It is not enough to say that we must invest heavily; We have to afford it. But that's exactly what we're doing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u56	The Treaties of the European Union prevent us from doing so!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u57	... especially at European level. I fully agree with you that banks and other financial institutions are investing heavily in projects that are harmful to the planet. No, it's not normal, we have to fight it, and that's exactly what we're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u58	You're making the same observation as I am! Learn from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u59	We could continue the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u60	We will close this rich and lively exchange, which I thank you for, while calling for the mastery of speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u61	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor to put her question, No 639, on the conversion premium for the purchase of a clean vehicle.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u62	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to promote the transition to clean vehicles, the Government has put in place a conversion bonus scheme, the amount of which can be doubled for the most modest households. However, the evidence I have gathered shows that this aid is conditional on the initial financial capacity of the persons concerned, the premium being paid only several months after the application. Thus, a person in my constituency, who, according to him, is eligible for a bonus of 4000 euros, having an urgent need to change his vehicle, is faced with such obstacles that he has eventually abandoned the plan to replace him; her fear of being unable to travel to work if her car makes her soul feel desperate to be caught in a spiral of poverty. For this survivor with the RSA – active solidarity income – and in search of work, paying a sum of 4,500 to 5000 euros is not possible. However, a vehicle is essential for working and travelling in rural areas. The approved dealers she contacted refused to pay the advance for the purchase of a vehicle of this price. As for the RSA services, they do not issue loans to persons who have alternated between periods of acting and RSA, which is his case. Obtaining a bank loan with 430 euros of income per month is difficult, especially since the immediate repayment obligation is binding on it. The director of the Dordogne family allowance fund, whom I met, told me that the CAF would have the financial capacity to advance the sum equivalent to the premium for beneficiaries who do not have sufficient financial resources; This flexibility would remove blockages and facilitate the operational implementation of the conversion bonus scheme, but the CAF would need to be authorised. Madam Secretary of State, we have a duty to make accessible the social measures of ecological transition that we have voted for. How does the Government intend to facilitate and secure the acquisition of the conversion bonus for the poorest? Could the proposal made by the Dordogne CAF be put in place quite quickly?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u63	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u64	Mrs Dubois, I reply instead of Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, who cannot be present. I thank you for your question, which is essential, and also for the work you are doing with local actors proposing, as close as possible to the ground, concrete solutions to improve the dissemination of social policies, so that they can benefit as quickly as possible to the greatest number of people. You know that solidarity, especially when it concerns the ecological transition, is our government's priority. Our goal is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. To go faster, it is necessary to accompany the French. That is why the Government has introduced the conversion bonus, which is a real success: more than 300,000 bonuses have been paid in the past year; Each week, more than 10,000 vehicle changes are made thanks to this support device. In particular, it benefits modest households, since three quarters of the premiums are paid to non-taxable households. Car dealers play a key role in the scheme as they advance more than three-quarters of the premiums. However, you are right to point out that there is a need for even more support for the most modest households. Financing solutions must be designed for this purpose, in conjunction with car manufacturers. That is why the Prime Minister has asked the Ministry of Economy and Finance to implement such measures, such as zero-rate loans. I have no doubt that the Minister of Economy and Finance will be able to inform you on a regular basis of the progress of this work. I am also sure that he will be happy to discuss it further with you, particularly with regard to the solution you are proposing. Finally, I invite you to discuss this with my team and the minister responsible for transport. I believe it is important to continue to make progress in the social support of the ecological transition, and I would like to thank you again for proposing concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u65	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u66	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary of State. My question was first and foremost to Mrs Buzyn, since it concerned, in particular, the solution proposed by a CAF, but I had the pleasure of asking you about it. In any event, I hope that a solution will be found to unblock this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u67	Mr Philippe Chalumeau, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, referred to his question No 641, concerning the airport of Tours Val de Loire.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u68	My initial question was to the Minister responsible for transport. The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, for several months now, the State and local authorities have been examining with public and private economic actors the prospects of the airports of the Centre-Val de Loire region, with a view to ensuring that the various initiatives do not compete and participate in the attractiveness of our territories. The airport of Tours Val de Loire has real assets, explaining its influence and demonstrating its high potential. As such, the joint union's business plan operating the airport is expected to allow the airport to diversify its platform's activities and revenue sources, which represents nearly EUR 84 million in turnover and has a potential of more than 820 jobs in 2035. This future is therefore promising, at a time when the Ministry of Transport's competition has sustained our air traffic control service, until then called into question by the planned departure of the fighter aviation school in the summer of 2021. In the absence of this control, which is indispensable to the service of all regular lines, the Loire Valley would have been deprived of its main air entrance, a factor necessary for its economic and tourist development and the benefits that it can legitimately expect from it. On behalf of the Tourangelles and Tourangeaux, I would like to thank Mrs. Élisabeth Borne, Minister responsible for Transport, through you. Thanks to her and to the Prime Minister, Tours Val de Loire Airport can now look to the future; Moreover, it experienced an upsurge in the order of 40% of its passenger traffic over the first two months of 2019, coupled with a sharp rise in business aviation. If the airport of Tours Val de Loire continues to rise in power and intends to make full use of its potential to meet the needs of the territory it serves and the public policies carried out there, at a time when a European reflection is beginning to define the guidelines which will be given for all French regional airports and where technological progress makes it possible to hope faster than imagined more respectful planes of our dear planet, thanks to advances in hydrogen propulsion or thanks to green electricity, what national policy can we collectively co-build in order to make our regional airports real poles of attractiveness, engines of economic and tourist development, and at the same time sustainable, of our country in the long term?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u69	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u70	You wanted to question Ms. Elizabeth Borne, Minister of Transport. This one cannot be present, I will answer you in her place. The air transportation bases, closed on 8 March by Elizabeth Borne, have led to a strategy for the coming years, the priority of which is to ensure effective connectivity of the territories through air transportation. The Government will therefore assist communities in implementing local airport strategies for several purposes. The first is to achieve an efficient ground service at French airports. The accessibility of large airports is indeed a prerequisite for their development and integration into the heart of the territory. It must be thought in an intermodal way and in relation to the new mobilitys, because we have to anticipate the future – we have to lock ourselves in a past model would be a serious mistake – while taking local situations into account. The second objective is to assist regions developing airport strategies, in particular by clarifying the division of powers between the State and the communities, so that projects can be carried out quickly. Third goal: to open up the territories through territorial planning lines. Fourth aim: to simplify community financial assistance to airport operators through national rules implementing the European framework for the operation of airports with less than 200000 passengers per year, and investment aid for airports with less than 3 million passengers per year. Fifth goal: we wish to ensure solidarity between airports by reaffirming the full support of the Government for the airport equalization system for the financing of airport security and security missions. Furthermore, it is important to implement targeted actions adapted to the diversity of airports, in particular in order to improve their connectivity. For smaller airports, the challenge is to be able to accommodate international flights whenever necessary, for example for business aviation, scheduled services or aviation maintenance. Of course, the constraints on security and border control will have to be taken into account. The development of the specific aerial connectivity of the ultramarine regions also remains one of our priorities. Mr Chalumeau, thank you for your involvement on these issues, on which I know you are working very hard. Be assured that we will continue to work with you to ensure the development of regional airports such as Tours Val de Loire and to strengthen the attractiveness of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u71	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u72	Thank you, as well as the Minister of Transport, for your support of our airport, which is vital for the development of our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u73	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Breton, to put his question, No 652, on the state of natural disasters following the 2018 drought.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u74	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior and the Government as a whole to the extent of the damage caused by the summer heatwave 2018 to many constructions in most of the eastern departments of our country. Indeed, the high dehydration of the soil has altered the stability of the foundations and produced cracks in the walls and slabs of individual houses, some of which are threatened with collapse. In the department of Ain alone, about 100 communes are affected by the phenomenon and more than a thousand claims files have been filed with the prefecture of Ain under the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disaster. In the Jura department, according to the figures communicated to me by our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz with whom we are working on this dossier, 200 communes are concerned and nearly 1500 files have been submitted. However, according to the provisions in force concerning this type of hazard, the processing of applications will only be possible in the second quarter of 2019, after the annual report of Météo France on the drought has been completed and forwarded to the Directorate-General for Civil Security and Crisis Management. In April 2018, however, the Government had indicated that it wanted to simplify this type of procedure and significantly reduce the time taken to investigate applications for recognition of the state of natural disaster. Madam Secretary of State, what concrete measures does the Government intend to take to address the concerns of the owners, who have been waiting for compensation for many months? The work of repairing the structural disorders suffered by their houses is now of an urgent nature if we are to prevent the situation from getting worse.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u75	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u76	Mr Breton, I will answer for the Minister of the Interior, who was unable to attend this sitting. In the second half of 2018, an episode of drought and soil rehydration affected metropolitan territory, particularly the north-eastern part of the country, as you pointed out. According to the first evidence collected, this episode would be comparable by its magnitude to that of 2017. To recognise that a municipality is in a state of natural disaster, I would point out that the administrative authority is, however, deciding on the abnormal intensity of the natural agent causing the damage, not on their extent. Now – forgive me for these technical details – given the slow kinetics specific to the drought hazard and the scientific knowledge available to date, two criteria are used to identify and characterize it, one relating to geotechnical conditions and the other to weather conditions. The delay in processing the file on which you are alerting us is therefore incompressible, I regret it. Indeed, since the analysis of the weather criterion of a geotechnical drought is carried out on the basis of an annual report by Météo France, communal requests can only be investigated one year after the disaster, once the consolidation of the weather data of the past year has been carried out. Meteorology France and the State departments concerned have, however, been made aware of the need to process these requests as soon as possible, and we will relay your question to them. Moreover, the work we are currently undertaking consists of simplifying the procedure for the recognition of the state of natural disaster. In the coming weeks, we will have new criteria that will be used as of this year to analyze applications for the 2018 drought-rehydration season. This work has two objectives: to take account of the progress of scientific knowledge on phenomena, in particular the technical modalities for the processing of meteorological data used to establish the degree of additional soil moisture; make the criteria used more legible for municipal officials and victims – an effort to simplify their presentation will be made in this direction. With this reform, we therefore want to improve the quality of the criteria while making them simpler, but also making their application more understandable.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u77	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u78	I note that you want to speed up the recognition of the state of natural disaster and simplify the procedure: both are indeed welcome. I would add that the elected representatives make themselves available to the services of the prefectures to work with them. Associations such as Les Oubliés de la heatcule, which have delegations in the various affected departments, can also help find ways to deal with the dramatic consequences that this drought has had for many homeowners and tenants as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u79	The floor is open to Mr Lionel Causse to put his question, No. 638, concerning the status of the local elected representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u80	The conditions under which local elected officials carry out their duties have changed dramatically since the NOTRe Act, establishing a new territorial organization of the Republic. The accomplishment of the local elected candidate's missions is exciting but time-consuming, up to full-time. Indeed, the proliferation of meetings, due in particular to intercommunality, is increasingly mobilising the elected representatives. In the smaller municipalities, they also carry out tasks normally assigned to municipal officials on a daily basis. This burden is to be compared with the very low allowances of the elected representatives: of the order of a few hundred euros for the smallest communes. Returned to the hour, the allowance of a local elected official is a few euros and, very often, it is not sufficient to compensate for the expenses associated with their duties. The revalorisations of the allowances of elected officials by increases in the value of the public service index point in 2016 and 2017, have been burdened, in recent years, by several measures, including the increase in social security contributions – the CSG, the generalised social contribution, and the contribution to the DIF, the individual right to training – which have reduced their net amount. Since 1 January 2017, the employee's benefits have also been taxed on the same basis as other income; In particular, this new system has consequences for elected officials whose office allowances are higher than those of mayors of municipalities of less than 500 inhabitants and for those who pursue a professional activity. In addition, it is particularly difficult to reconcile elected office with professional activity. If leave of absence is provided, it is limited to municipal council meetings and certain other meetings. The credit of hours allocated to a municipal councillor of a municipality of less than 3500 inhabitants is seven hours per quarter, and these hours released by the employer are not remunerated. The law provides for this time to be taken into account in determining the duration of paid leave and entitlement to social benefits. While the law of 31 March 2015 to facilitate the exercise by local elected officials of their mandates introduces a protected employee status for some of them, its effectiveness, according to several recent case-law, does not appear to be fully guaranteed. Finally, the intrinsically precarious function of these elected officials requires improving their professional reintegration, training and acquired social rights, especially if the number of cumulative mandates over time is to be limited. I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take to create a real status for the elected candidate and to avoid a crisis of commitment on the eve of the municipal renewal of 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u81	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u82	Mr Causse, I thank you for your question, which allows me, in my turn, to welcome the commitment of the 600,000 local elected representatives of our country, the vast majority of whom – almost three quarters – are volunteers, who embody local democracy of proximity and also carry out public service for the benefit of their fellow citizens. The status of the local elected is an old dossier, well known on the benches of this Chamber. It has become urgent for us to move this forward, as our society is experiencing a global crisis of commitment that affects community involvement as well as municipal elections, especially in the most remote rural villages. In the run-up to next year's municipal elections, this is therefore a major issue. Work on this subject has been done by Parliament, not only in the National Assembly, but also in the Senate. A report submitted to Jacqueline Gourault a few weeks ago helped to draw up perspectives and consider progress. The first of these improvements concerns the social system of local elected officials. The creation of a dedicated website on ameli.fr improves the information of local elected officials on this subject and allows better treatment of social protection issues. The second step, taken in the framework of the PLF for 2019, is the increase, for municipalities with less than 3500 inhabitants, of the representative share of employment costs, which are not subject to income tax. For these communes, this is still a beginning of a solution. It is also crucial to improve all sides of the commitment. To this end, work is under way and discussions are under way, in particular with the Chairperson of the National Assembly's delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities. In this way, we need to make clear progress on the individual right to training. The issue of the status of local elected officials is all the more complex because it also touches on the question of communal finances. It is not uncommon for elected leaders of local authorities to want to take steps to better accompany their colleagues, but they do not want to increase the amount spent on them. The issue of compensation is particularly sensitive in the current climate of "elected-bashing". We are open to all proposed solutions. It is feared that, for the first time, it will be difficult in some rural villages to establish complete lists of candidates for the 2020 municipal elections. It is therefore our collective duty to find solutions that are as realistic as possible during this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u83	Mr Lionel Causse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u84	Minister, thank you for your answer. One point is essential: if workers and other employees are to be engaged in elected office, they must be guaranteed income and professional reintegration. Some countries guarantee the maintenance of wages. Maybe we have to think in that direction. In any event, I thank the Government very much for its willingness to move forward on all these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u85	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva, to put his question, No 653, on VAT on the construction of social housing in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u86	Minister responsible for local and regional authorities, in recent months the pace of construction of new housing, particularly social housing, has slowed down, while demand is high. A month ago, as part of a rather new alliance, building professionals, local authorities and humanitarian associations, such as the Fondation Abbé-Pierre, shouted an alarm. In 2018, a 7.6% decrease in building permits was recorded compared to 2017. If cyclical factors are to be taken into account, this government's latest decisions on taxation on housing aid – a plan for LPAs, personalized housing aid, including the one for accession, the end of zero-rate lending in rural and peri-urban areas – have unfortunately had negative effects that we feared and denounced in this House. In Corsica, in particular, in addition to the planing that I have just mentioned, your decision to increase the reduced rate of VAT on social housing construction from 5.5 to 10% – which it benefited from by law, like the overseas region, as an island island-mountain area recognised – seriously undermines the prospects for construction, while the social housing stock of this territory is already very lagging behind. Minister, the situation is serious: the island has a poverty rate of 20 per cent, compared to an average of 14 per cent in Hexagon, and a social housing rate of only 10 per cent, compared to 17 per cent at the hexagonal level. The ratio between the demand for social housing and the number of allocations is very strong, as it peaks at 6, compared to only 3.8 in mainland France. Social donors, such as the public housing office of the community of Corsica, are strangled there. Despite its goodwill and recovery efforts, it will have to draw no less than EUR 1 million from its reserves to carry out its renovation programmes. The liberalisation of social housing and the reduction of public aid that has been advocated are catastrophic for Corsica and other territories with strong constraints where the economy is strongly affected by the pressure of tourist attractiveness. This brings too much land and real estate speculation, creating an unbearable rent. We will never solve this reality that we live in: it is more interesting for a developer to build a luxury beachfront villa for a rich vacationer who will stay there only two months in the year rather than a dwelling for an island family in need. Rebalancing must take place urgently. We're ready to work on it. We believe that you must take stock of the situation and return to a 5.5% VAT for the construction of social housing in Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u87	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u88	Mr Acquaviva, I apologize to Mr Julien Denormandie, Minister for City and Housing, who, unable to be present, instructed me to read you the answer he had prepared for you. First of all, I would like to go back to the figures you mentioned. The 7.6% decrease in building permits in 2018 must be put in perspective as it follows a period of continuous growth, since May 2015, in the number of these permits and in the construction of housing; Thus, we are currently at a much higher level than in the years 2013 to 2015. In addition, this decline does not apply to Corsica, where the number of dwellings authorised has increased by 9.3%. Nevertheless, the Government remains attentive to the housing situation. The ELAN law, on housing, planning and digital development, adopted at the end of 2018, thus includes a component designed to support housing construction, with measures aimed in particular at freeing up land – as you said –, simplifying the act of building and the rules of urban planning, speeding up administrative procedures or regulating abuses. As for the volume of social housing financed in 2018 in mainland metropolitan France, although slightly down from 2017 – minus 4% – it remains at a very high level. In Corsica, more specifically, the growth in the number of social housing units financed in 2018 is spectacular: it stands at 20% of all social housing units combined, and 134 % for the most social housing units, financed by PLAI, rental loans aided by integration. However, the Government does not ignore the efforts of the social housing sector, which is reflected in several measures. I am thinking in particular of two of them: the implementation, as early as 2018, of the reduction of solidarity rent intended to contain the expenses of housing allowance without affecting the purchasing power of the tenants; the increase in the VAT rate from 5,5 % to 10 %. The Government has therefore accompanied the social donors with support measures, including a plan of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations of €10 billion in financing and a freeze of 0.75 per cent of the rate in Book A. At the same time, measures have been adopted in favour of a gradual increase in sales of HLM housing, with priority being given to the tenants of the social stock. In order to assist vulnerable donors, the Government had also provided for the establishment of an equalization scheme through the Social Rental Housing Guarantee Fund. Finally, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, a consultation with representatives of social donors on the so-called "review" clause is under way, in order to assess the impact of the measures of the 2018 Finance Act and the accompanying arrangements, and to consider possible adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u89	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor for a word.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u90	I'll be very quick. Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive elements of your response to the question of mainland France. I simply note that there is still a gap between these and the territorial reality specific to Corsica, evident in the light of the figures announced. You mentioned the growth rate, of course; But as we were leaving from far away, as we are suffering from a scissor effect due to the scarcity of land, stronger than elsewhere – I would remind you that in Corsica, the rate of secondary residences is 39%, compared to 9% on average on a metropolitan scale – and that this phenomenon is getting worse, and as the public housing office's own funds are decreasing, I regret to give you an appointment next year to see that this rate of growth will be declining and even that operations will have to be stopped. So I'm calling you urgently!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u91	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to put her question, No. 633, on social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u92	In my view, the ELAN law – on housing, development and digitalisation – and the reduction of solidarity rent, the RLS, constitute a challenge to social housing policy and directly threaten the financial future of the OPH, the public housing offices. The RLS, listed in Article 126 of the Financial Faith for 2018, is indeed a catastrophic threat to the future of all social donors. It also accompanies the decline in the personalized housing assistance – the LPA – received by the tenants of the social park and aims to eliminate its impact by reducing their rent. The SLR saves the state €800 million in 2018, €1.2 billion in 2019 and €1.5 billion from 2020. For the OPHs, the direct consequence of this decision is a reduction of 8 to 10 % in their annual budget. For example, in my constituency, this measure represents €5 million less for the rehabilitation and housing construction operations of the Gennevilliers OPH, while the city has 3000 housing applicants. This measure is based on the myth of the supposed wealth of agencies and on the cost, considered excessive by some, of social housing for the State budget. Donors will be subjected to the impact of the SLA. The scheme is in addition to a set of measures to limit donor resources, such as the end of the state's contribution to stone aid, the increase in donor contributions to the Social Housing Guarantee Fund, the freezing of rents in the social park in 2018 and the increase, from 5.5 to 10 %, in the VAT rate applicable to real estate operations in the social housing sector. These reforms are unacceptable because they organize the weakening of HLM agencies and speed up the privatization of social housing. They will lead to a precarisation of the poorest among tenants and housing applicants, and sign the end of the French HLM model. This is tantamount to abandoning the need to maintain a high level of production of social housing. This will lead to the failure of the OPHs. Minister, in the Finance Act for 2020, how are you going to draw the conclusions from its disastrous financial impact?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u93	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u94	Mrs Faucillon, I should like once again to apologise to my colleague Julien Denormandie, Minister responsible for the city and housing, who has prepared the elements of the answer that I am going to communicate to you. This reply will also allow me to supplement the comments I made in response to Mr Acquaviva. It is crucial in this debate to recall one figure: France spends almost 40 billion euros on financing housing policy, or about 2% of its domestic wealth. This is a very important level in relation to our European neighbours. We have implemented an important measure to restore public accounts, by reducing housing aid in the social park, to 800 million euros for 2018 and 2019, while preserving the purchasing power of all the tenants concerned, since this planned decrease in LPA, as you know, is offset by a decrease in rent. However, the Government did not ignore the effort it had thus requested from the social donors. That is why we have put in place several measures. First, as I recalled earlier, a €10 billion plan from the Caisse des Dépôts et consignations and a reform of the rate of Book A must support them in their investments as well as in their productivity reforms. Secondly, for donors who would find themselves weakened despite these accompanying measures, we have provided for equalisation through the Social Rent Guarantee Fund. We have also pushed for a consolidation of the sector, thus promoting donor support to the most dynamic and robust players. So there will be no bankrupt organizations, MP. Finally, as I have already indicated to you, there is currently a consultation under the Prime Minister's authority with representatives of social donors. Exchanges between the Government and the HLM sector have therefore never ceased. The next step, the goal, within fifteen days – we will succeed – is to reach a pact with all the federations of social donors. It will have to preserve the objectives of reducing public expenditure while setting a high level of ambition for the renovation and production of social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u95	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u96	I thank Mr Denormandie for sending you this answer. Having said that, without offending you, I have a small regret: the one he could not be present, because it is true that discussions are under way, particularly with local donors and elected officials, and my question is part of this exchange. I would like to reply on one point: still happy that you will come to the aid of the donors, as some of them have sometimes come to the aid of the banks after the major crises! The question is not simply whether or not HLM organizations will be bankrupt tomorrow, but what opportunities will be available to them. I am thinking in particular of Gennevilliers, who, thanks to the efficiency of his management, is able, even if it is at the cost of new difficulties, to renovate housing and to offer decent housing, while continuing to produce social housing and housing in social ownership. In its projections, taking into account the measures announced, it will have fewer means to fulfil its tasks, even though Gennevilliers has 3,000 requests for housing and the weakness at national level of the fight against speculation leads to private housing becoming unaffordable. What is missing is affordable quality housing. It must be noted, however, that the HLM sector provides a response in this area. He was just asking for a better answer. However, the measures taken over the past two years make this possibility more improbable, while the urgency remains to be able to build social housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u97	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to put her question, No. 663, on the prerogatives of municipal police.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u98	Although incivilities continue to pollute the daily lives of our fellow citizens – at the end of 2018, 22% of French people felt in danger in their neighbourhoods or in their villages: never seen in ten years – the security police and daily life could not be established throughout our territory. In the absence of such support, some municipalities have increased the number and resources of their municipal police. Better equipment, weapons, training, video protection cameras: so many aspects that, if taken care of by the municipalities, are not enough. Why? Because, as crime evolves, the prerogatives of our municipal police should also evolve. It would therefore be necessary to generalize their direct access to the driver's licence file, the vehicle registration system and the files of the objects and vehicles reported – indeed stolen – as well as to the file of the wanted persons. They should also be allowed to carry out identity checks and vehicle searches, both in the context of judicial proceedings and in the context of a written requisition by the public prosecutor. Municipal police may take part in the reconquest of lawless districts in France; They are perhaps even the best placed, thanks to their precise knowledge of the terrain. They also know how to take risks for this. Last weekend, in La Devèze, a difficult district of Béziers, a priority district of city politics, while our municipal police were trying to arrest the pilot of a stolen motorcycle that made a rear wheel without a helmet, she was heavily pebbled. His commander failed to receive a stone, probably fired with a stone-thrower in his face. These situations exasperate the French. A law against urban rodeos was adopted last year, but nothing changes on the ground. So my question is simple: when are you going, Minister of the Interior, to give these 22000 men and women the means to ensure the peace and quiet of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u99	The Minister responsible for local and regional authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u100	Mrs Ménard, I apologize to my colleague Christophe Castaner, Minister of the Interior, who entrusted me with the task of reading you the answer he prepared with the help of his services. In order to carry out their tasks, in addition to administrative police powers, municipal police officers have, as you know, the status of assistant judicial police officer, which gives them many other powers, such as the finding of violations of the mayor's police orders or the fight against noise pollution. In addition, over the past three years, their capacity has been significantly strengthened to enable them to carry out their missions more effectively. The Act of 22 March 2016 on the prevention and fight against incivilities, attacks on public security and terrorist acts in public passenger transport extended their geographical competence by providing that they may, on assignment by the mayor, find offences against the railway transport police. When assigned to the safety of a sporting, recreational or cultural event, they may carry out visual inspection of the baggage and, with the consent of the owner, search and palpations. Thanks to the Act of 30 October 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, they can also participate in the protection of the prefect's perimeters in case of risk of terrorist acts. With regard to their equipment, since the entry into force of the decree of 28 November 2016, municipal police officers have been able to carry a semi-automatic pistol of 9 mm calibre, which ensures better response conditions. In order to prevent incidents during interventions, municipal police officers may be equipped with individual cameras; This measure, originally experimental, was sustained by the Law of 3 August 2018 on the harmonisation of the use of mobile cameras by public security authorities. Finally, a decree of 24 May 2018 opened up to municipal police officers direct access to information recorded in the processing of personal data relating to driving licences and the circulation of vehicles. As a result, municipal police officers have had substantial resources, which have been greatly strengthened over the past three years, enabling them to carry out their missions more effectively. Of course, we are in constant consultation with elected associations on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u101	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u102	As you have just pointed out, Minister, the prerogatives of municipal police officers have been increased in recent years, but this is unfortunately not enough because crime is constantly evolving. You know, of course, that municipal police officers, because of their presence on the ground, are often the first to present themselves and to provide an answer, not only in the event of delinquency and incivility on a daily basis, but also in the case of an act of terrorism, as we have seen in Nice recently. The demand of the municipal police, as well as the national police, is for better cooperation between them, as well as with the gendarmerie. Most often, this happens very well, because all these bodies work for the same purpose: to ensure the safety of their fellow citizens. What is lacking, on the ground, are clear instructions from the prefects and sometimes a strong will on the part of the public prosecutors. This is what municipal police officers want, as well as their prerogatives increased. I will shortly table a bill to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u103	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, to put his question, No. 644, concerning the hospitals of Carnelle and Beaumont-sur-Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u104	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, it is a great pleasure for me to ask you this question. Last week, Senator Arnaud Bazin asked your colleague Adrien Taquet about the Northwest Territory Hospital Group Vexin Val-d'Oise. I would like you to give us some details of the answer that was given to him. I have noted the need to take into account the deteriorating financial situation of the NHTS NOVO. However, I would like to see some clarification from our fellow citizens on this issue, as well as on the future of the two hospitals in Saint-Martin-du-Tertre and Beaumont-sur-Oise. I understand the need to focus the most demanding medical practices in equipment on a single site; From this point of view, the choice of the René-Dubos establishment in Pontoise is not absurd. However, the 28 kilometres between Beaumont-sur-Oise and Pontoise sites often correspond to an hour of travel. It is not possible, when speaking of this area of Val-d'Oise, to consider the site of Pontoise as a site of proximity. I am therefore pleased to hear that, with regard to the Beaumont-sur-Oise hospital, there has been a continuation of a proximity offer in maternity and paediatric care, as well as an outpatient surgery service and an emergency department. Will you be able to go back in more detail on this information? I understand that it will be the same doctors who will serve in Beaumont-sur-Oise and Pontoise. If so, how will their work be articulated between the two sites? How can we ensure that the needs for general medical care and emergency care are met? Will the maternity of Beaumont-sur-Oise remain a level 2 maternity? User petitions call for the maintenance of paediatric emergencies. Is this type of service provided in Beaumont-sur-Oise and, if so, how will it evolve? I also want to address the situation of the Carnelle site, which has been the victim of a rehabilitation which is as expensive as it is poorly committed and which is also experiencing recruitment difficulties with regard to the medical profession. A slow death of the site is not acceptable to the commune. Can you commit yourself to the evolution of the site that results in the maintenance or creation of new activities, especially in the field of medico-social? Finally, do you not think it would be useful to set up a steering committee under the aegis of the RSA – the regional health agency – involving local authorities, users and medical personnel? On these points, I would like to have some clarification, Madam Secretary of State. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u105	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u106	The North-West territory hospital group Vexin Val-d'Oise, known as "GHT NOVO", consists of three establishments: the René-Dubos hospital centre, CHRD, in Pontoise; the hospital group Carnelle Portes-de-l'Oise – GHCPO – including the Beaumont-sur-Oise and Saint-Martin-du-Tertre sites; the inter-municipal hospital group of Vexin. These institutions are characterized by a fragile situation. In fact, the registration in an interdepartmental committee for the performance and modernization of the care offer – COPERMO – was motivated by a very sharp deterioration in the operating situation of the NHTO establishments, combined with a great oldness of the facilities. The plan to restructure the NHTS NOVO, validated by the passage to COPERMO in January 2019, is based on a reconfiguration of the care offer in the territory, structured around an ambitious medical territory project, which aims to guarantee the population the best quality of care. This reconfiguration is justified both in terms of care – improving medical attractiveness by concentrating scarce medical resources and setting up graduated care channels in the territory – and in terms of medico-economics, because of the need to optimize heavy technical platforms due to the impossibility of providing micro-units, and to play on threshold effects with a view to improving organisations. The ARS d'Île-de-France, in close liaison with local elected officials, closely follows this reconfiguration to ensure that the provision of care in the territory remains of quality. The restructuring of the NHTS NOVO does not provide for the closure of the Beaumont-sur-Oise site. The GHCPO will be strengthened by providing local residents with community and quality care through the following measures: maintenance of an emergency care service and a medical activity for adults and children; strengthening of a territorial public maternity system, with the aim of ensuring that every future mother, regardless of her place of residence, has access to the same quality of care and care, in full safety; creation of a paediatric and neonatology service within the NOVO GHT, within the framework of the already established women-child centre; pooling of critical care beds and adult resuscitation beds within a single site, in order to ensure quality management by hyper-specialised teams; continued structuring of a territorial surgical center, with a territorial medical team in anesthesia and surgery operating in two institutions. As a result, the Beaumont-sur-Oise site will continue to provide community care to residents, while being attractive to patients and health care professionals, in close collaboration with CHRD, the support institution of the NHTS NOVO. Finally, on the Saint-Martin-du-Tertre site, conversion projects are being analysed between the establishment, the ARS and local elected representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u107	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u108	I am very pleased to have received such a detailed answer, Madam Secretary of State! It is important to understand that, at this time when medical desertification affects all territories, including Île-de-France, there is a great deal of concern. Rational and reliable information is therefore needed. You brought it to us, and I thank you for it; It will have to be completed as and when. Issues related to medical attractiveness and career issues for physicians also need to be taken into account if multisite hospital sites and hospitals are to be maintained. Of course, we will remain vigilant as to the outcome of the events.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u109	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 655 on hospital groups in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u110	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the future of territorial hospital groups is a matter of great concern to us at this time. Pursuant to the Act of 26 January 2016 to modernize our health care system, each public hospital had to integrate an HHT, the latter having to be based on a shared medical project, based on a group strategy, serving the needs of patients. This project, which was to be developed before July 1, 2017, is available in a territory whose size must correspond to a distance acceptable to patients and professionals. This is a new way of cooperation between public health institutions on a territory-wide basis, through the establishment of a conventional system between public health institutions, by which they undertake to coordinate themselves around a common and graduated care strategy for the patient, formalized in a shared medical project defined by a constitutive agreement. The principle is to encourage health facilities to pool their medical teams and distribute activities so that each structure finds its position in the region. The aim is to ensure that all patients have better access to care by strengthening cooperation between public hospitals around a medical project and to enable health institutions to treat better and less expensively. Several levers are supposed to exist for the implementation of HHTs. A territorial hospital unit must have: converging working tools enabling the establishment of territorial teams through an information system, a medical information department and a procurement function managed at the group level; a coordinated training strategy to ensure the establishment of harmonised management protocols and the dissemination of good practice; governance arrangements based on a supporting health institution, as well as the establishment of joint bodies adapted to its needs; inter-institutional hubs allowing for a medical and health-care organization in the territory; joint certification processes to enhance convergence in the quality of care. In many cases, however, the medical project does not exist or exists in an inappropriate form because it does not take into account the realities of the field. Many HHTs are therefore not working properly, creating many local difficulties, especially for emergency services. The logics are blurred or non-existent and too often dictated by purely accounting visions. The situation of health cooperation groups is even less understandable. That is why I would ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to provide me with figures by region, in particular, of course, as regards the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, and by department, as regards Isère, and to indicate what actions you intend to take to speed up the implementation of the GHT.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u111	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u112	Ms Jacquier-Laforge, as you point out, the impetus for setting up a local hospital group is a coordination of public institutions around a common and graduated patient care strategy. Nearly three years after their creation and a year and a half after the completion of the first version of the shared medical and health care project, we can now take stock of the GHT. To date, all GHTs have responded: all shared medical projects have been drafted and approved by the ARS, with the exception of those of two GHTs under construction – those of Guyana and Guadeloupe. These medical strategies are based more than 90% on a territorial diagnosis of health needs, which goes beyond the scope of the HHT alone to account for their territorial anchoring, particularly in view of other offers and the cooperation that preceded them. Several HHTs have engaged in medical and health care reorganisations for the benefit of patients. I am thinking, for example, of the Vienna HHT, which has set up a joint team for the four emergency reception sites in the territory, a team composed of some 50 emergency doctors who share the permanence of care; Since last November, thanks to this organization, Châtellerault hospital no longer uses interim physicians to fill its schedules. This is one example among others, with about 100 THGs dealing with the emergency sector in their shared medical and care project. It cannot be said that all HHTs evolve according to purely accounting visions. However, you are right: if all THGs have reached the legal milestones, their maturity is not homogeneous; the territories are not uniform, the answers are not univocal. The situations of the 136 GHT vary greatly, whether in terms of the number of their members – from two to twenty institutions – the population concerned – from 100,000 to more than 2.5 million inhabitants – or in terms of the size of the professional teams – from 1200 to more than 25,000 full-time equivalents. All these data are accessible to all on the website of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. Aware of the difficulties and obstacles faced by some THGs, as you stress, the Minister of Solidarity and Health has decided to provide financial support of €36 million for the next two years. Finally, the bill discussed last week in a public session plans to continue the integration of HHT by strengthening the medical strategy and governance within them, by creating medical grouping commissions, by entrusting the institution with supporting the management of medical resources at the level of the HHT and finally by accompanying voluntary institutions for further integration, which will facilitate the application of this collective strategy in the service of the populations of the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u113	Don't forget the staff!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u114	The next speaker is Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, who has a few seconds to speak to.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u115	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the quality of your answer and for the clarification you have given me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u116	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to put his question, No. 662, on the Loir-et-Cher territory hospital group.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u117	I will illustrate Mrs Jacquier-Laforge's questions in a specific case. I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, about the functioning of the Loir-et-Cher territory hospital, in particular the difficulties encountered by the Vendôme hospital centre. I would like to make it clear in the preamble that neither the elected members of the supervisory board nor the practitioners nor all the staff of this hospital are in principle opposed to the hospital groups in the territory: we understand the objectives of mutualisation, enhanced cooperation and complementarity, with a view to ensuring a hospital network of intelligent territory. However, the hypercentralization and hyper-personalization of the management and decisions currently taken within the GHT is a problem for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u119	The proper functioning of a local hospital group can only be based, I believe, on balance and trust, both of which are lacking today. In a written question, I cited a number of examples illustrating these difficulties and malfunctions. Here I will take a few others, in particular the unbearable pressure exerted by the GHT management on hospital practitioners at the Vendôme centre to try to overcome the shortage of staff at the Blois hospital centre. In your previous reply, Madam Secretary of State, you referred to the problem of emergencies. I want to mention it in my turn, because Vendôme's emergencies see 22000 patients pass a year, while they have been formatted to accommodate 16,000. However, there is no interim practitioner: all are in possession, while at the same time, the shortage of practitioners at the Blois hospital centre raises difficulties in ensuring the guards of the SMUR – a mobile emergency and resuscitation structure. I could also take the examples of geriatrics or psychiatry, specialties in which the staff of the hospital in Vendôme are complete, when those of the hospital in Blois unfortunately suffer from departures and deficits within them. The object of my question is that the proper functioning of a hospital group in the territory cannot be to recover, if I dare say so, staff in one hospital to fill the deficits in another. Solutions must therefore be found to provide all the emergency services, for example in the department of Loir-et-Cher, we are fully aware of this. This implies, in my view, a review of the bases of the strategic objectives of the Loir-et-Cher region hospital group and, above all, a more shared governance, to the benefit of the principles of trust and balance that I wish to see developed. I therefore request your intervention, via the regional health agency of the Centre-Val de Loire, to provide concrete answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u120	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u121	You asked me, Mr. Brindeau, about the situation at the Vendôme hospital and the organizational difficulties he encounters in the Loir-et-Cher area hospital group. As you said, the HHTs were asked to consolidate the purchasing functions. In this context, the Simone-Veil Hospital in Blois, a support institution of the GHT, has set up a common department for procurement. As such, the Director of the Loir-et-Cher HHT wished not to proceed, as a first step, to a delegation of signature, to consolidate the processes in question. These are, I would like to remind you, major subjects because the directors of the GHT assume their personal legal responsibility. The director of the support institution will come closer to the directors of the other institutions in order to objective with them any difficulties or points to improve. As far as information systems are concerned, HHTs need to develop convergence. As such, the Loir-et-Cher HHT is well organized, as a common direction for information systems is in place and convergence is proposed, which is fully in line with the national tender policy. These commitments, made under the HHT by the directorates of the institutions concerned, will continue in the coming months. We are therefore well in the case of public institutions which organize themselves within a GHT, in the sense desired by the legislator. This HHT has a governance within which each member must be able to express itself, and, thanks to it, an important convergence work has already been carried out over the last two years. Vendôme's hospital centre plays an essential role in your territory, and I have no doubt of the involvement of its officials in actively participating in the governance of the Loir-et-Cher HHT. If developments are expected, they must be built in a constructive way among all actors, in the interest of the territory and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u122	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u123	I expected your answer on the delegation of signature and the commitment of legal responsibility of the Director of GHT, Madam Secretary of State. I tell you simply and quietly, this argument does not stand at all, since any delegation of signature entails the responsibility not only of the delegate but also of the delegant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u124	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u125	It is the lack of confidence of the director of the GHT in the very functioning of the GHT and the collective work thus rendered impossible that poses a problem. And that is the problem that needs to be addressed in the future. I thank you, however, for your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u126	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, to put his question, No 631, on the sale of nitrous oxide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u127	I want to warn you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, about the development, in our country, of the consumption of nitrous oxide – this famous gas injected into the siphons to make cream chantilly. The phenomenon, from Lille, spreads throughout France. The "proto", as it is commonly called, has become one of the most used psychoactive substances. The risks associated with its consumption are numerous and real. There have already been deaths, including a minor, due to a hyperconsumption of cartridges dedicated to domestic use. Many local and national elected officials, of whom I am, of all obediences – including the majority, therefore – support, in substance, the bill that I have tabled to prohibit the sale of these cartridges to minors and to have them display a pictogram to designate them as dangerous products. "Balloons are not like tobacco, alcohol, cannabis: it's not dangerous, it's legal," said a regular consumer in Roubaix. These comments show that the risks associated with hyperconsumption are not known because of the status of the product. Protecting minors from harmful products by prohibiting them from being sold to them is a first level of response, not the only one: it is a significant limit for a product that is not annoyed. This is not entirely effective, because of the weakness of the controls, but at least it will limit the trivialisation of the product, in minors as well as in adults. Is it because the laws prohibiting the sale of minors are poorly enforced that it should no longer be used? That is the current position of the Government. For you, a ban on selling to minors would not be justified because, I quote, "this consumption does not concern only minors". However, similar legislation exists for tobacco and alcohol, which are also consumed by all the public. If tomorrow, taking up your own argument, I propose the end of the ban on the sale of alcohol to minors, will you follow me? I don't believe it, and you'll be right. The department also states: "The problem is inhalation, not cartridges. We think we're dreaming! Clearly, free access to cartridges, a mode of ultra-majority consumption, precedes inhalation. It is the cartridges intended for domestic consumption that are problematic, and the total legal vacuum in this matter is an aberration.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u128	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u129	Finally, the department rejects the product-by-product approach. However, it is precisely because the product I am talking about is being misused and not just a drug that must be specifically addressed. None of your arguments are serious. And on the question of the pictogram to be applied to the cartridge, the ministry says absolutely nothing. In addition to your languishing speeches on potential preventive measures, will you put on Parliament's agenda, precisely in the name of prevention for our children, the prohibition of the sale of these cartridges to minors and the affixing of a pictogram on them?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u130	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u131	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u132	We are well aware of the health problems that have arisen in your territory because of these products for several months, and I understand your feeling, Mr Bernalicis. Nitrogen protoxide is a gas for medical use, for example for anesthesia, but also for commercial use, for the pressing of aerosols. For its medical purpose, this product is already subject to the regulation of narcotics products. For commercial use, in aerosols, the regulation is that of consumer products. Given the misuse of these products, a product-by-product approach to putting an end to the practices you mentioned seems to be futile. Only comprehensive prevention approaches among young people can bear fruit, even if we must acknowledge that we cannot claim to eradicate certain practices completely. We understand the desire shared by several parliamentarians to ban the sale of nitrous oxide to miners, but this would unfortunately be inefficient. It is the inhalation of a product whose purpose is not its use that is problematic, not the product itself. Misuse, for recreational purposes, occurs in the Hauts-de-France, in urban areas, mainly in the Lille metropolis and in Valenciennes. We are working together to develop a prevention action plan with the city, the prefecture and the ARS, the regional health agency. In Lille, we work within the framework of the CLSPD, the local council for security and crime prevention. Several actions are being developed or already implemented: preventive measures carried out by the usual operators – centres for the care, support and prevention of addictology –, by young consumers' consultations and by the reception and support centre for the reduction of the risks of drug users; training of supervisors on the subject of addictions in general; Finally, awareness-raising measures should be directed to traders to encourage them to better control the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges. In Valenciennes, the regional health agency commissioned one of its operators, the "listening information dependency" group, to alert and raise awareness among local actors. We therefore focus on raising awareness among professionals who, in the areas of health, social or education, provide guidance to young people. To date, direct action has not been taken with all young people on this targeted product, in order to avoid a zoom effect. The link will also be established with the student health service, with the document prepared by the addictovigilance centre available.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u133	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u134	Prevention is, of course, necessary, Madam Secretary of State, but here again, you rely on the existing means, which are also decreasing – the Department of Northern Affairs has thus reduced its allocations to specialized prevention and prevention clubs by 5%. What are you doing to compensate for these decreases? Are you going into trouble? No! I've met with the actors on the ground, whether it's the city or the prevention clubs: they're all asking for a piece of legislation to ban the sale of the product we're talking about to minors. This would allow at least a first effect. It will be traders who are penalized, not minors: on such audiences, only prevention is effective, of course. But we can't afford it. You're talking about zoom effect. Either, let us continue not to zoom in, let us throw a cover on the situation, which, moreover, is not only Lille: it is also observed in Picardie, in Strasbourg or, as some press articles show, in Montpellier. In short, the problem is becoming more widespread, as you know; It would be time to respond and act.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u135	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor to put his question, No. 658, on the maternity of Privas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u136	The ARS – the regional health agency – Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes has placed the hospital of Privas, the prefecture of the Ardèche, under provisional administration for a period of six months which has just been renewed. This decision follows major financial difficulties of the institution and a particularly degraded social climate, despite the immense quality of the staff who honour the hospital public service. For more than 18 months, I have been alerting the SRA about the situation of this facility. In the context of the recommendations that could be made by the administrator, whose work and human qualities I salute here, many Privadois fear the abolition of services, in particular – but not only – that of maternity. All over France, the grouping of births in large hospital centres results in the closure of small units and removes the population from a service charged with symbols, the one in which, in this case, young Ardéchois come to the world. Die's motherhood, in a neighbouring department of Ardèche, has become, in this respect, the sad symbol of the fight against medical desertification. That is why, before a decision was taken, I asked the ARS, together with the Mayor of Privas, to conduct an impact assessment on health and social issues. This precaution seems to me the least. Knowing the consequences of a possible closure of Privas' maternity, credible alternatives for pregnant women and travel times, varying according to the seasons, is simply making sure to act with knowledge. It would be incomprehensible to take a decision without measuring its consequences for the populations living in the private basin. I know the reassuring speech of reminding that maternity is licensed until 2021, but that's not what I'm interested in. What interests me is, firstly, to know the commitments you take to stabilize a team of professionals in this maternity in order to restore serenity and, secondly, to finally carry out the impact study that I asked for with the Mayor of Privas and without which no good decision can be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u137	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u138	Member of Parliament, Privas Hospital was placed under provisional administration by the regional health agency Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes in October 2018 due to major financial difficulties and a difficult social climate. The preliminary findings of the provisional administrator show a situation that is more degraded than initially, which leads the regional health agency to consider extending the provisional administration for an additional six months. It is not envisaged, as you have said, to question the authorization of the gynaecological-obstetric activity currently available to the institution and which is valid until August 2021. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the Privas Hospital to ensure the technical and human operating conditions guaranteeing the quality and safety of the care. It should also be recalled that the perinatal centre in Die opened on 1 January 2018, allowing 1125 paediatric and gynaecological consultations and the effective follow-up of 93 parturients who gave birth in 2018. Finally, you generally question the health relevance of the closure of low-activity structures, stating that it is questionable, and does not provide a guarantee of progress or assurance of better service to the population. It seems to me important to recall in this regard that the policy of more than 30 years has led to a reduction in the number of facilities carrying out fewer than 300 births and that this has led to a significant reduction in infant and maternal mortality rates. With regard to deaths still recorded in France today, the 2016 perinatal survey concludes that more than half of them are considered preventable, since there is good monitoring of at-risk pregnancies and good post-partum care. Quality and safety of care must be the sole concern in the appropriate and graduated care of parturients, which many professionals recalled last month.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u139	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u140	I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for sending my letter to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, who may be able to give me a more precise answer. For this is a very precise question that I asked: it is necessary to have an impact study in the event of the closure of Privas' maternity; This is the only question I raised. You yourself have invoked the need for quality and safety of care: I ask you to study what the quality of care and safety of parturients will be when maternity is located more than three-quarters of an hour away from home. This is, I repeat, the only question I ask you, and it is to this question that I expect an answer from the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u141	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor to raise her question, No. 642, on sexual violence in the Northern Department.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u142	My question is to the Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, responsible for equality between women and men and the fight against discrimination. As a woman and elected from the North, I can only worry about the increase in sexual violence in 2018: on the rise throughout the national territory, they literally exploded in my department. After increasing steadily over the past decade, they grew by 20.8 per cent in 2018, two points higher than the national level. More generally, there has been an increase in violence against women. These figures, deplored by Michel Lalande, Prefect of the North, rank our department fourth among those affected. Fortunately, at the same time as women's voices are freed, law enforcement agencies are forming to receive victims and deal with their complaints more effectively. This preventive work is carried out with targeted partners, such as social workers or gendarmerie, and is very beneficial. In June 2019, the Lille gendarmerie will launch a new tool for teenagers, called Car'ado: a "customised" vehicle will intervene in the south of the department – especially in Avesnes and Maubeuge, two very affected cities –? at sporting or festive events, to raise awareness of the issue among girls and boys. The initiative aims to prevent domestic violence, particularly violence against women, at the dawn of sexual relations between boys and girls. The goal is to give girls keys to get them out of a victim's position, and to educate boys about the macho relationships they might have with them. The project will also contribute to the awakening of citizenship among adolescents. Car'ado will build on several partners: the region, the department, the prefecture, several deconcentrated directorates and associations. This particularly interesting operation is fully integrated into the Government's policy to combat violence against women. Depending on the success of the 2019 edition, one could consider extending it to the entire department of the North and then to the entire national territory. I would like to know the state of affairs of the Secretary of State on this subject and the possible emergency measures she is considering in the most affected departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u143	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u144	Allow me, Mrs Schiappa, to give you the answer sent by my colleague Marlène Schiappa, who could not be present this morning. The number of complaints of sexual and gender-based violence is increasing significantly nationally in 2018, by 17 per cent for rape complaints and by about 20 per cent for sexual assault complaints. In the North, the increase is 20.8 per cent, which will be the subject of special attention by law enforcement in 2019. While these figures are a sign of a welcome release of speech, such violence is unacceptable, and the Government as a whole is committed to combating them in the context of the great cause of the quinquennium. One watchword: don't let anything pass. Several measures have thus been implemented, fulfilling the commitment made by the President of the Republic on 25 November 2017. To reinforce the condemnation of the violence, the law of 3 August 2018 created the verbalization for street harassment – 356 fines had been handed down on 1 March – and increased the statute of limitations for sexual crimes committed against minors to 30 years. To improve the care of victims, on 27 November, we launched the online reporting platform on gender-based and sexual violence – in three months, 2000 reports have already been collected – and opened ten psychotrauma centres, one of which is run by the University Hospital in Lille. The Government is committed to meeting the needs expressed by actors on the ground. For example, almost 9 per cent of the budget allocated by the State Secretariat for Equality between Women and Men to the fight against violence is devoted to the Hauts-de-France region. In Douai, our services are working to create a network in a territory that has been deprived of it for a year; 18,000 euros will be mobilised to create a specific network of actors and part of the lifting of the precautionary reserve, to the tune of 31000 euros, will finance a specific day reception in the Douaisis. Similarly, the reform of institutions for information, consultation or family counselling aims at raising the awareness and support of young people on these issues; four of these establishments have been registered in the North since January 3, 2019. Therefore, the Government can only welcome the investment of other actors in this area, in particular the awareness-raising activities aimed at the adolescents you have just presented, already experienced in Guadeloupe. He will be paying attention to the results of the initiative, which was announced next June, before proposing, possibly, its extension to other territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u145	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor to raise his question, No. 656 on university tuition fees for foreign students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u146	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, the Government decided last November that, from the start of the 2019 academic year, non-European foreign students will have to pay €2770 in bachelor's and €3770 in master's, compared to €170 and €243 today, respectively – for an average expenditure per student of €11510. If the Government intends to reinforce our tradition of welcoming students from all over the world, this decision does not leave any cause for concern, in apparent contradiction with the government's objective of attracting at least 500,000 students by 2027 as part of the "Bienvenue en France" plan. It already seems to affect the attractiveness of universities in the eyes of many non-European students; The Dean of the Faculty of Science and Technology of Vandœuvre-lès-Nancy, who seized me on this subject, rang the alert in a January 2019 letter, where he already reported a 63% decrease in the number of applications of foreign students compared to 2018. In addition, you are aware, Madam Minister, of the economic contribution of foreign students to the country, particularly in Lorraine, well beyond the sums invested by the State: according to a 2014 Campus France study, the annual positive balance of the cost and contribution of their training exceeds 1.5 billion euros; In 2016, their economic contribution was EUR 15772 per student. The Government has indeed recalled the validity of the decree of 2013 allowing the exemption of tuition fees for these students up to 10 per cent of the total number of students enrolled in university; However, concerns remain. You also announced the publication of a decree guaranteeing that the registration fees for French and foreign students would not increase more than inflation; I would like to know how this applies, in particular whether it is an indexation of the registration fees on inflation. Finally, the Government wants to increase by three the number of scholarships and exemptions for international students, primarily non-Community students. I would like clarification on the conditions for awarding these grants and exemptions. In the meantime, I think it is wiser to suspend the increase in registration fees for foreign students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u147	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u148	As you pointed out, honourable Member, the objective of the "Bienvenue en France" strategy is to attract more international students to our country and, to this end, not only to improve very clearly their reception conditions, but also to triple the number of scholarships and exemptions granted, so that all students who want to choose France can do so, regardless of their resource conditions. For the first time, the international attractiveness of universities has become a government priority. With regard to the figures circulating and the concerns expressed regarding the decrease in the number of pre-registrations, the process is under way with regard to the master's degree; for the license, we have the final results, and they are stable; I stress, however, that the number of pre-registrations does not correspond to the number of final registrations, only one out of four on average being finally retained by the institutions. I also stress that the additional grants and exemptions have already been notified to the posts and will aim in particular to allow students, especially from French-speaking Africa, to continue to receive them under excellent financial conditions – but still not material. With regard to the question of deferral, the ability of institutions to exempt up to 10% of students from registration fees gives them room for manoeuvre to build their international attractiveness strategy and to introduce the redistributive system we want. Today, many students come to France to register, without necessarily estimating the total cost of their future studies, especially that of living and housing. This is why universities have embarked on a process that will allow them to define how, from the differentiated fees paid by students who will be able to do so – and there are many in the world who choose paid training, including in France – to create real scholarships of excellence, thanks to which students with the lowest but equally deserving incomes will benefit from better conditions for success. In short, it is a strategy to transform the way we want to welcome international students. We are talking about differentiated registration fees: as I said, a decree that will be published in the coming days will confirm that nothing changes for community students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u149	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u150	Thank you, Minister, for your reassuring words. I will take over from the deans of the faculties of my constituency who have seized me and from the representatives of the Assemblée parlementaire de la francophonie, of which I am a member. The quality of our higher education and the quality of our research contribute to the vitality of the Francophonie and to the attractiveness of the country. I will be able to reassure the great Francophone community here and there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u151	Mr Christophe Blanchet, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 645, concerning SMEs in the space sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u152	The 2017 Strategic Review of Defence and National Security, Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, recalled the critical importance of space for all of our missions. If France remains a first-class space power, it is naturally thanks to its large aerospace groups. However, I would like to mention the small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – of excellence that contribute so much to it, and that are experimenting in our territories. I would like to testify here to the difficulties they face in accessing certain invitations to tender – in particular to the European Space Agency's contracts – ESA. The ESA applies a principle of "geographic return" according to which it orders from state industries in proportion to their financial contribution. However, the large French groups alone consume all their shares, depriving SMEs of this aid, which puts them in a situation of unfair competition in Europe, at the risk that they will relocate their activities. Even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs recognizes a lack of efficiency and distortions of competition. Even more serious, our own large groups prefer to buy more expensive, less well, a product that a French SME can create, precisely because buying French would reduce the geographical return envelope from which they draw. Thus, the company ACMH – Honfleur Mechanical Construction Workshops – Aerospace &am p; Defence, in my constituency, once again saw a contract go under his nose for the British, even though we are in the middle of Brexit. Perhaps you will remind me, Madam Minister, of the existence of the competitiveness and employment tax credit – CICE. But it can only represent a very small part of the financing, and it carries risks when geographical returns can reach 70% of investments. Madam Minister, it is France that decides, as a last resort, what types of products and services are included in the calculation of geographical returns. We know that France has already started discussions with the European Space Agency on the subject of distortions of competition. Beyond these issues which fall within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, can you tell me what the Government intends to do to support SMEs in this sector, how strategic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u153	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u154	Mr Blanchet, the French space industry, a strategic sector of national excellence, is a key sector of our economy. In 2017, it generated a turnover of €4.6 billion, an increase of almost 5% compared to 2016, and represents more than 16,000 direct, highly skilled jobs. This industry also has a strong spillover effect on other sectors of activity, providers or recipients of satellite services. As you pointed out, it is indeed crucial that French companies, in particular SMEs, can fully benefit from the industrial contracts resulting from the ESA programmes. The principle of geographical return, if it does not present only disadvantages, sometimes leads, as you rightly stress, to inefficiencies in the major European space programmes, at a time when competition is intensifying in international markets. Nevertheless, a number of SMEs have mastered key technologies and skills as part of France's space strategy and managed to obtain a significant number of ESA contracts. Discussions are under way to change the Agency's industrial policy. The solutions under consideration are of two types. The first route envisaged would be to set aside between 3 and 5 % of the national geographical return for SMEs. Germany has already implemented this measure in two ESA programmes. Another solution would be to intensify and encourage more intensive cooperation between contractors and SMEs in upstream technology programmes. France is already devoting a significant part of its optional technology programme to actions carried out by innovative SMEs. These discussions have not yet been concluded, but we will return to them once an agreement has been reached. As far as AMCH is concerned, it is, as you know, largely dependent on specific contracts awarded under ESA's responsibility under the Ariane programme. I would just like to point out that the major French groups in the space sector do not offer the products marketed by this company, and therefore cannot take contracts to its detriment. However, as you pointed out, the question of the potential distribution of geographical returns remains. The relocation project of this company and its current difficulties could therefore be explained by causes other than those attached to the limits of the principle of geographical return. The State services will, of course, remain vigilant and will pay close attention to any plans to transform this company in order to guarantee both activity and employment in this territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u155	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u156	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Indeed, this company deserves to be followed up and you have grasped all the problems. On the eve of the European elections, it is also an issue to defend this sector in order to restore equal treatment between SMEs and large groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u157	Mr Jean-Michel Jacques has the floor to put his question, No. 643, on the recruitment and training of cyber-combatants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u158	In his speech of 18 February, Florence Parly, Minister of Armed Forces, mentioned various threats that France must face. It clearly announced the new offensive doctrine of the state in the face of the cyber threat: "In case of a cyber attack against our forces, we reserve the right to respond, in accordance with the law, by the means and at the time of our choice. » In particular, our armies want to recruit 1,000 cyber-combatants. This is a real challenge and, in order to do so, it will be necessary to develop skills and recruit the best profiles. As you know, the Pôle d'excellence cyber, based in Brittany, brings together representatives of armies, companies and universities. The University of South Brittany, moreover, which I am fortunate to have in my territory, offers two diplomas of engineers, a master's degree and will propose, as early as September, a professional degree. Today it works with vital operators, SMEs, state services and the armed forces, with the aim of training as many young people as possible in cybersecurity. How does the Government intend to make it possible to recruit 1,000 new cyber-combatants, when we have to count on the enormous recruitment needs of all our companies and administrations?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u159	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u160	Mr President, the aim of the Ministry of Armed Forces to have an additional 1,000 cyber-combatants by 2025, in order to meet the challenges of cyber-defence, is indeed a real challenge because the human resource available at school and in the labour market is not sufficient to meet the growing needs of the public and private sectors. The Ministry of Armed Forces has therefore undertaken to develop a specific human resources policy in order to have the necessary competent staff. This policy is based on the optimisation of several levers: recruitment, retention, training. For recruitment, the ministry has real assets: the service of the nation, operations, high technology – all this attracts. These strengths are valued through communication campaigns with a strong involvement of the Cyberdefense Command – COMCYBER – and by evolving the missions of operational and citizen reservists, which are an essential part of our outreach. In order to increase its attractiveness in a competitive environment with the private sector, the Ministry of Armed Forces has also made a substantial effort in the area of civilian salary scales and has begun to increase the number of commissioned military personnel, allowing them to start with a higher rank and therefore higher remuneration. In terms of retention, a number of measures have been taken or are being studied to strengthen the department's sense of belonging to the cyber community: the creation of a cyber defence command and units bringing together the various cyber components, the definition of a significant cyber HR and the construction of real career paths. Thirdly, training – which is becoming more and more continuous, modular, alternating, in partnership with the academic, civil or industrial world, individualised – is a key element, as it improves each person's competence according to their needs. This process compensates for the difficulty of recruiting cyber experts ab initio. Continuous training is also a means of motivating an individual to remain in a highly evolving field. As you can see, MP, the Ministry of Armed Forces is well aware that the recruitment of 1,000 cyber-combatants is as much a chance as a challenge, which we are ready to meet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u161	Mr Jean-Michel Jacques has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u162	You will thank Mrs Parly for her answer, Minister. I take into account all the efforts made by the Ministry of Armed Forces. It is important to work upstream – I am speaking here to the Minister of National Education you are – in order to drive young people towards this path. In my riding, I recently participated in an event called "Women's Osons," which focused on the digital sector, where there are very few women. We need to get our young people involved in cyber defence and cyber security, so that they can have the necessary forces to ensure the country's security.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u163	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor to put her question, No. 648, on the means of the Fund for the Development of Associative Life.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u164	My question, which is addressed to the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, concerns the abolition of the parliamentary action endowment – DAP – provided for in Article 14 of Organic Law No 2017-1338 of 15 September 2017 for confidence in political life – an endowment commonly referred to as a "parliamentary reserve". The immediate effect of this abolition penalises small municipalities, mainly rural ones, as well as associations that ensure the vitality and dynamism of our territories. To remedy the elimination of the EUR 50 million parliamentary reserve, the Fund for the Development of Associative Life, originally planned to finance the training of leaders and voluntary associations, was abounded by the Finance Law for 2018 by an additional EUR 25 million. I would like to point out that the amount of the grants and their dangling were made public every year on the sites of the Assembly and the Senate. I would also remind you that the parliamentary reserve was an undeniable tool for creating proximity between parliamentarians, local elected representatives and the community. Associations are the perfect example of a harmonious and supportive living-together, with volunteers doing remarkable work for the benefit of the general interest. In view of the crisis of volunteerism in France, it is essential to continue to accompany them as best as possible, in order to encourage them to continue their action. These associations now have great difficulty balancing their budgets and some are forced to abandon their projects because, in fact, the fund does not meet the needs of all associations. This fund is aimed primarily at associations that do not benefit from the wage tax credit – CITS – the equivalent of the CICE for associations. However, even for those concerned, the amount dedicated to this fund is clearly insufficient. In concrete terms, it appears that this amount of EUR 25 million does not help all the associations that ask for us. Small associative structures are the victims of these new modalities, due to lack of sufficient resources to respond to their grant applications. I would therefore ask you to indicate what measures you intend to take to support both the projects of the small communes and the associations which, I insist, have a crucial role to play in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u165	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u166	Mrs Corneloup, you have indicated that your question is addressed to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts. In reality, it is to me that she addresses herself, the associative life in my field of competence – so things are going well! The finance law for 2018 entrusted the management of 25 million euros to the Fund for the Development of Associative Life – FDVA – responsible for carrying out the tasks of the former parliamentary reserve, according to new governance arrangements. Similar appropriations have been renewed by the 2019 Finance Act. The Decree of 8 June 2018 on the Fund for the Development of Associative Life introduces revised principles regarding the allocation of appropriations by department, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the governance of the fund as close to the ground, in order to take into account the precise expectations expressed by parliamentarians. Small associations are the first beneficiaries of this scheme, which is complementary to other devices that benefit the larger ones more – you mentioned them. All of this ensures a certain level of equity. The instruction of 15 May 2018 on the Fund for the Development of Associative Life and the use of its deconcentrated appropriations provides that small associations shall receive priority from these appropriations, in particular with regard to the funding priorities and the grant ceiling of EUR 15000. As part of its inter-ministerial and cross-sectoral mission, the FDVA, with which more than 22800 associations applied in 2018, paid all of the 25 million euros available to it to 9500 associations, or 41.5% of those applying. This is therefore a high level of satisfaction. All sectors were supported, including the sports sector. For example, in New Aquitaine, 32 per cent of the organizations that applied were in the sports sector, 45 per cent of which received a grant. As the scheme is now in place, I intend to mobilise the relevant services to ensure that the 2019 campaign is carried out according to an improved timetable, and that notifications of grants are known before the summer. In addition, associations will have the opportunity – more systematically than last year – to submit their applications to the official management portal entitled "The Asso Account", in order to ensure greater efficiency. After a year of implementation of the new FDVA organization, it seems to us important that parliamentarians sit on the departmental college, where they will be consulted on territorial funding priorities and proposals. In the light of the discussions that I have followed in the context of the great national debate, I am even very open to the idea of participatory budgets, allowing to proceed in a more equitable and transparent way – which is already a virtue of the FDVA in comparison with the previous system – with a view to constantly improving the irrigation of the territory and small associations. The proposed legislation to improve the cash flow of associations, which will be continued today by your assembly, could provide a framework for legislative change to involve parliamentarians in their governance.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u167	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u168	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that the problem does not lie in the creation of files, which is proceeding relatively well. However, it may be important to clarify the selection criteria. Indeed, many associations have been disappointed because their request has not been successful without understanding why, which creates significant frustration. As you yourself have indicated, 41% of requests have been met, which means that more than one in two have not been met. This is a real problem of matching resources and demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u169	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u170	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor to raise her question, No. 640, concerning the reform of the baccalaureate in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u171	Mr Minister of National Education and Youth, I would like to ask you about the implementation of the reform of the baccalaureate. One thing has become clear: the baccalaureate is too little suited to the ambitions of success that our young people enjoy. Higher education is characterized by too high a failure rate, particularly at university – 60% of students fail to obtain their bachelor's degree in three years and 25% of young people are unemployed. In addition, the organization of the baccalaureate is very complex. The French are very attached to the baccalaureate, a real republican symbol. However, the current form of the diploma is not satisfactory. In the context of the reform, in territories affected by the crisis, education actors are asking themselves about the place to be given as a bridge to higher education. The current system remains falsely egalitarian. It does not solve the issue of inequities between institutions. The challenge of the reform of the baccalaureate is to prepare students for success from high school. Nevertheless, several questions remain regarding the implementation of the reform. It must be borne in mind that the generation that will be undergoing the reform of the baccalaureate has already experienced that of the college. In the territories, the teaching staff and the parents of high school students fear an increase in inequalities, due to the risk of competition between high schools in the same basin, between disciplines and between staff. Minister, how do you intend to integrate the concept of territory into educational policies? How can we think of networks of establishments, in order to organise the best possible menu of specialties and the progress of the programmes in order to anticipate the obstacle to mobility in the territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u172	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u173	Mrs Park, your question is very important. In the current public debate, there are many partly false statements on this subject. As you know, the reform of the baccalaureate – which involves a reform of general and technological lycées as well as of the professional path – aims not only at raising the general level, but also at social justice, which is also an issue of territorial justice. This is a social justice issue, because the objective is precisely to lift predeterminations. For example, I sometimes hear that the new system will make the orientation earlier than it was before. It's totally wrong, it's even the opposite. In the system that has prevailed so far, the orientation was quite early. At the end of the second, one had to choose between one of the three general education channels. In most cases, if the S track was not chosen, several doors were closed, including those of scientific studies. On the contrary, we set up a system that allows us to determine ourselves according to a much larger choice of specialties. Let us not forget that the first gain for the student – second, in this case – when compared to previous generations, is to have more choices, which is a vector of fairness. In general, it will be about 30 combinations, sometimes about 20, in any case far more numerous than the three combinations all made of today. This freedom is a vector of equality – it is a fact. The localization of specialities has also been the subject of many fantasies. It is sufficient to compare the speeches that some made in November and December and, just before the Christmas holidays, the territorial establishment of the specialities. Everyone found that the promise was being fulfilled. We have shown a desire for territorial justice, based on an implantation, which I will call overcompensatory, attractive specialties in establishments that must gain in attractiveness. The statistics confirm that. Currently, only 84% of public high schools offer the teachings of the three L, ES and S series. I didn't hear anyone, by the way, moving about the 16% of public high schools that didn't offer them. Ninety-two per cent of public high schools now offer at least seven special education courses. This is therefore a step forward with regard to the three pre-existing paths. The remaining 8% of schools are very small high schools, not very disadvantaged high schools – it's not the same thing. In addition, the new high school enriches the provision of education in schools where the most socially disadvantaged students are enrolled. At present, 82% of the most disadvantaged public high schools offer the three L, ES and S series. Now, 88% of schools in this category offer at least seven special education courses. Clearly, the existence of a variety of routes is an enrichment. At present, some students do not have access to the lessons offered in the series they choose. The shortcomings of the future system are in fact those of the past, which we have managed to mitigate. For example, in general, in-depth artistic teachings are only available to L-series students, accounting for 10.7 per cent of the general school pupils in 2017. At the start of 2019, all students will be able to choose from the courses offered in their school. For example, in 43.8 per cent of public high schools, special arts courses are offered. The rectorates have adopted a territorial vision coupled with a requirement of equity, so that, through the establishment of networks of schools, students can benefit from courses given in another institution than their own if necessary. In any case, the offer is richer per establishment. Several examples can be taken. At present, the teaching of Latin or Greek is offered in 12% of public high schools; "Literature and languages and cultures of antiquity" will be taught in 24% of public high schools, a doubling of this proportion. In addition, in 74% of public schools, students will be able to choose optional instruction in languages and cultures of antiquity. This is a considerable step forward, welcomed as such by the experts on the subject. As far as computer education is concerned, only 3.5 per cent of pupils study it in high school. In the new configuration, 53% of public institutions will offer "Digital and Computer Science" specialty education. Progress will therefore be undeniable. It seems to me that this is what we must first note with regard to the reform of the high school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u174	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u175	Minister, thank you for your answer. I quickly contacted the academic director of the National Education Services – DASEN – of Val-d'Oise, who fully reassured me about this. Apart from three high schools in the department, the department will be covered by all the specialized teachings. With regard to the ninth constituency of Val-d'Oise, if not all options are taught in each high school, they have been divided according to the distance between high schools, in order to avoid competition between them. We'll have to stay vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u176	Mr Julien Aubert, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 650, concerning the replacement of the fields by specialties in the reform of the high school.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u177	Minister of National Education and Youth, the reform of the high school promoted by the Government is soon to enter into force. In particular, it provides for the abolition of literary, economic, social and scientific fields and their replacement by these famous specialities. High school à la carte, simplification, more freedom for students: I have taken note of your argument, even though I would like to relativize somewhat the widespread enthusiasm that it arouses, with regard to 15 year olds who have to make a choice that engages them. Indeed, there are click effects: if you choose mathematics, it is not possible to change your teachings completely afterwards if you have been mistaken. This simplification gives the vast majority of parents a twist. In order to make the right choices and to accompany their children to school in second place, they are confronted with cornelian choices, in particular because of the lack of visibility on the correspondence between what will be required in higher education and the specialties required to enter it. To reinforce this simplification, not all options and specialties are taught in all institutions. Clusters by sector – hence mutualisations – are to be expected. I will take the example of Carpentras, a city located in my constituency, where the students of Victor-Hugo High School wishing to continue the Provençal option will have to cross the city by walking, which will take them about twenty minutes, to go to a nearby high school, in all forty minutes of lost time. Another difficulty will be finding the right schedule for both high schools, with the risk that the courses will take place very early in the morning or late in the evening. There is something to discourage the most volunteers, even if there are followers of the Provençal who are sportsmen! This prospect has aroused great discontent among the defenders of the Provençal language and cultures, of which I am. They see it as the end of the teaching of regional languages. I'll take a second example. In Apt, another city in my constituency, a student wishing to study engineering science will have to go to a high school located in Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, about 40 kilometers away. However, several studies have shown that increasing travel time between home and school is an important factor in dropping out and failure. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to these points. The risk is not to move towards a baccalaureate of excellence, it is to move towards an unbalanced baccalaureate between the territories. You mentioned social justice: I wanted to draw your attention to territorial justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u178	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u179	Mr Aubert, your question is complementary to the previous one. I will not repeat what I said about the distribution of specialty teachings. On the other hand, I recognize that there is a very strong relationship between social justice and territorial justice. You have raised several points. As regards the likelihood of confusion arising from an increased choice, this is an argument that can always be advanced as the scope of freedom extends. We offer more choices – we can call it more confusion. I take advantage of my answer to your question to point out that there are landmarks, in particular the website horizons2021.fr, which we have created. It is emblematic of logic at work, as it allows second-hand students to ask themselves good questions about their future. It is not a question of doing this definitively, which would lead to an early orientation, placing students from the second class in a chosen corridor at sixteen years of age, while we will all agree that most students, at sixteen years of age, do not know what they want to do later, which is quite normal. The reform makes it possible to take this reality into account. It allows – thanks in particular to the website horizons2021.fr – to reflect on the spectrum of possibilities offered by higher education and on the correspondence between these spectra and the different paths leading to these possibilities. The reform thus allows a second-time student to ask questions that, so far, did not arise so early. They put themselves to him later, if not too late, at the risk of confronting him with a failure in higher education. The answers provided by the student are the first answers. They are not definitive. Clearly, once in the first class, he will have to make trade-offs between specialized teachings. In addition, the debates on specialty teaching should not make us forget that there is a common block of hours – occupying the majority of teaching hours – for all high school students. Let us never forget this when we debate reform. Thus, predetermination is less than it was previously, more choices and fairer implementation. Of course, you will always be able to cite such or such an example, Mr.Aubert – I know, by definition, less well than you have mentioned. In any case, it is always necessary to compare the situation obtained with the previous one. In the case of regional languages, it was very common to ask students to change schools to study a regional language, or a rare foreign language. The reform of the high school does not increase this phenomenon; On the contrary, it opens up new opportunities for regional languages – a point to be noted for all those who support them: pupils can choose specialty education not only in the foreign language, but also in the regional language, in Corsica for example. I would remind you that the weekly schedule is four hours in the first class and then six hours in the final class. The reform of the high school allowed a reflection on territorial equality. You can, of course, see some shortcomings in the system, but we are undoubtedly in progress in relation to the previous situation, both in terms of territorial equality – offering in each high school but also networking of high schools – and in terms of the new freedoms offered to high school students.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u180	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u181	There is still a problem: you will review the weight and rating of the options at the baccalaureate. You say it is inconceivable for students to have more than twenty out of twenty on the exam. But if the option is taught at the other end of the city, and you also know that it will not really count, the students may be discouraged: why, under these conditions, follow three hours of Provençal teaching? I therefore believe that the weight of the options must be reconsidered. In addition, high schools will see this or that option disappear. As far as the common bloc is concerned, I note that the timetable for moral and civic education is thirty minutes: I know that it was already the case, but in view of the democratic crisis that we are going through, perhaps we should consider substantially increasing its duration!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u182	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 660, concerning the future of the theatre Le Lavoir moderne parisienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u183	My question is for the Minister of Culture, but I thank the Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance for responding on behalf of the Government. It deals with the situation of the modern Parisian Lavoir, theatre of the Goutte d'Or, which plays a major role in the cultural offer of proximity, for the access of all to culture and for equal opportunities. The difficulties encountered by the modern Parisian Lavoir are very representative of those encountered by small dynamic theatres in the popular districts – it is the only theatre of the Goutte d'Or. It is now threatened with closure by a new, more profitable real estate project. The modern Parisian Lavoir offers an essential cultural offer: it is essential to save it, in the general interest, because it carries out a tremendous work of transmitting culture and artistic practices, thanks to a wide variety of theatrical, philosophical and artistic representations. The cultural supply of neighbourhoods is essential in all neighbourhoods, since demand is high, and cultural awakening in so-called "popular" neighbourhoods contributes to equal opportunities by allowing children and families who initially have less social and cultural capital to discover new horizons. We must carry and support an alternative solution that preserves this theatre. As an elected member of the 18th arrondissement and a member of the 18th arrondissement of Paris, I support the legitimate mobilization of the team of the modern Parisian Lavoir and I am not the only one: many elected officials, people from the associative world, residents and renowned actors of the cultural world are also mobilizing, in the general interest. As André Malraux said: "Culture does not inherit, it conquers itself." We will continue to fight to preserve and support the offer of Parisian cultural creation. Madam Secretary of State, we need the support of the Government to help us save the modern Parisian Lavoir; We hope that he will remain in the Goutte d'Or district.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u184	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u185	The Regional Directorate of Cultural Affairs of Île-de-France was seized by the two theatrical associations Procréart and Grains de soleil of an application for protection of the modern Parisian Lavoir as historical monuments. After several on-site visits, however, DRAC considered that the building did not meet the conditions for protection for historic monuments – which would have addressed your concerns. Seized in parallel by the DRAC, the city hall of Paris has indicated that protection under the local planning plan – PLU – was also not justified, given the numerous transformations suffered by the places: indeed, the old wash only remains the structure of the structure of the lower hall, visible in the present theatre room. The existing report of the parcel to the PLU "for its heritage, cultural or landscape interest" therefore appears sufficient in view of the condition and characteristics of the buildings. They are also located within the perimeter of the Saint-Bernard church, but outside the visibility field. Under the Performance Halls Ordinance 1945, however, any change of assignment or proposed demolition of a venue hosting a performance hall is subject to authorization by the Minister of Culture. The Directorate-General for Artistic Creation of the Ministry of Culture had reminded the previous owner of the premises of this regulation by letter dated 23 October 2012. However, while the protection conferred by the above-mentioned order is intended to preserve the destination of theatre venues, it does not preclude the owner's right to terminate the lease. In addition, it will only be applicable once the owner has indicated his intention to demolish or change the assignment of the showroom. However, to date, it has been apparent from several meetings of the services of the city of Paris with the owner of the modern Parisian Lavoir that there has been no question of making the room disappear, nor of changing its assignment – which, I hope, is in the sense that you wish. The Ministry of Culture has asked its services to follow with the utmost attention the situation of the modern Parisian Lavoir, as well as the theatrical activity of the association Seeds of the Sun, which performs remarkable work. We share your goal: to preserve the cultural assignment of this place.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u186	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u187	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for this clear statement and for your support. In my view, we must move on to the offensive even more clearly: the Ministry of Culture, the city of Paris, the associations concerned and the inhabitants must mobilize to create a balance of forces. This place, open to all the citizens of Paris, as well as to all those who come to the capital discover its creations, must keep its soul. There must be coordination of services, leadership and political will; and real support must be given to the associations that make the modern Parisian Lavoir live. We will fight to the end to save him.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u188	Mrs Pau-Langevin has the floor to raise her question, No. 657, on the future of the House of the People of Clichy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u189	My question is for the Minister of Culture, but I trust the Secretary of State to answer on behalf of the Government. The People's House, located in Clichy-la-Garenne, has been a historic monument since 1983. At the architectural avant-garde in France between the two wars, the building was built in this district of the Paris suburbs between 1936 and 1938, the result of municipal policies led by the Popular Front. A striking example of the history of steel construction, the People's House of Clichy illustrates the indissoluble union of culture and techniques, form and construction. It is the first prefabricated wall-lined and metal-structured building with sliding partitions, removable floors and a sunroof. The team of architects, led by Jean Prouvé, created a complex functional device, in the form of two simple juxtaposed volumes, following the advice of the aeronautical engineer Bodiansky and in the mechanical workshops of Schwartz-Haumont. A winning project of the call for projects Let's invent the Greater Paris Metropole, designed by Rudy Ricciotti, LBA and Holzweg, proposes to add a 96-metre tower to this building yet with the highest degree of heritage protection. The project's promoters announce a mixed operation, combining hotels, luxury accommodation, cultural centre and commercial spaces. This project, which seems primarily to serve purely private interests, risks depriving lovers of culture of a remarkable historic place. In October 2018, then Minister of Culture, Françoise Nyssen had announced by mail to the mayor of Clichy that she had just entrusted to the heritage inspection "a project analysis mission" of the People's House. What measures does the Ministry of Culture intend to take to avoid the disfiguration of this monument?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u190	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u191	Built from 1937 to 1939 by architects Marcel Lods and Eugène Beaudoin, and marked by the innovative interventions of Jean Prouvé and Vladimir Bodiansky on interior developments, the House of the People was, as you recalled, entirely classified as historical monuments in 1983. This protection, which had been debated at the time, was a founding act: the quality of a historical monument was recognized to a work of architecture of the twentieth century – now considered to be part of our heritage in its own right. The city of Clichy has proposed for this building – whose state of conservation is unfortunately very worrying despite restoration work carried out in the late 1990s – an architectural project based, on the one hand, on the restoration of the House of the People and, on the other hand, on the addition to this building of a tower whose construction would be entrusted to architect Rudy Ricciotti. This project, which demonstrates the legitimate will of the elected representatives to develop the housing in Clichy and to value the city with a strong architectural gesture accompanying the renovation of the People's House, raises the question of its compatibility with the protection of the latter building as historical monuments. If contemporary additions to protected monuments are possible and occur regularly, they must also take this protection into account. The Minister of Culture has received the elected representatives who defend this project. The departments of the Ministry of Culture are not yet seized under the authorization of works on historical monuments, but the Minister has asked them to pay the utmost attention to this project, so that the objectives of this project are in a framework compatible with the necessary protection in respect of the historical monuments enjoyed by the People's House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u192	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u193	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I welcome these clarifications, as well as the assurance that the Ministry of Culture considers this project with great attention. I stress, however, that the city of Clichy has important spaces – where more and more buildings are growing, for commercial or residential purposes. It is therefore quite able to carry out an innovative architectural gesture without having to touch the House of the People, precious testimony of the architecture of the inter-war period.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u194	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor to raise her question, No. 634, on the subsidized leave of officials from overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u195	My question is to the Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Action and Accounts. On January 11, an interdepartmental meeting on the reform of enhanced leave was held in Matignon. It is not our will to oppose the principle of reform in this area; However, the Government was affected by a measure introduced by Michel Debré and Raymond Barre, two Prime Ministers from the overseas countries, who intended to bring about some equality in the situation of civil servants, whether they were of ultramarine or metropolitan origin. Indeed, a metropolitan official, even away from his region and family, may return there every weekend or month; It is unthinkable for an overseas official transferred to the metropolis, as for a metropolitan official transferred overseas. The aim of the scheme is therefore to reduce inequality in the situation. And we understand the emotions of families, here as well as overseas. Can you confirm that the reform you are considering will maintain the principle of overpayment to take account of the cost of living overseas? Can you also confirm that public servants – who obviously leave as a family – will not have to make the advance of airfares, regardless of the frequency chosen? It may be more appropriate to reinforce the right to the use of enhanced leave, which is too often called into question, according to the random assessment of the criteria of material and moral interests by the administrations. A clear definition is needed. Such leave must also not be called into question in the event of maternity or parental leave, which causes the three-year period to start from zero, which sometimes prevents any return. Our people want to be reassured on these issues. So, Madam Secretary of State, can you clarify the principles of the ongoing reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u196	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u197	Madam Member, during his speech in Guyana for the launch of the Overseas Assises, on 28 October 2017, the President of the Republic launched a reform of the enhanced holidays. At the time of the restoration of these foundations, on 28 June 2018, he confirmed this attention, announcing a reform of the scheme, which will be effective from 2020 for civil servants, with a simple objective and principle: less long leave will now be allowed every two years. In order to pursue this objective, the Government hoped that a consultation involving representative trade union organizations and employers from the three sides of the civil service would be organised as of May 2019. The purpose of this consultation is in particular to assess the arrangements, the current characteristics of which were determined in 1978 and, where appropriate, to identify relevant developments. In any event, and in accordance with the announcements of the President of the Republic, the work will be carried out, not in order to challenge the right to enhanced leave, but to modernise its implementing rules, so as to allow the persons concerned to benefit from more frequent leave, while responding to the challenges of efficiency and continuity of public services. The current enhanced leave regime is no longer suitable for our time, transportation and leave modes. The system must be reformed, not in order to meet budgetary objectives, but in order to respond to better organization of services and to allow for more frequent returns. The Government wants a policy that encourages the return of overseas countries and territories more quickly, more easily, more often, and less for a longer period of time. The aim is that instead of leaving every three years, public officials in Hexagon, who have their material and moral interests in the overseas territories, will be able to leave every two years with their families, starting in 2020, for those who left in 2018. On the other hand, the additional thirty-five days' leave, which was for historical reasons, is no longer justified. Only travel times should be granted to beneficiaries. You are also right to point out, honourable Member, that the question of whether or not to maintain overpayment should not be a subject of discussion. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Government does not want the agents to have to make advance airfares, as this would be too much for a home. We will have to find a flexible and appropriate way to deal with the often changing proposals for air routes. All of these topics will be discussed as part of a consultation, which will begin in the coming weeks, leading to the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u198	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u199	I understand that consultations will be held with the representatives of the officials concerned. Going back more often, for example after two years, is a positive step, allowing public servants to maintain ties with families. You calmed our concern by responding to our main question, which concerned the advance of airfares. You answered me about the overpayment. In view of the changes in transport conditions since 1978, it will be necessary, in particular, to review the arrangements for taking account of periods of leave. I therefore trust you to carry out the consultation with the relevant actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u200	Mrs Béatrice Descamps, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 661, concerning the deduction of double-residence expenses in a professional capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u201	My question is to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, for representing him here. Since the conditions for deducting the costs of dual residence on a professional basis are very strict, in order to exclude cases of dual residence for personal convenience, they unfortunately deprive some Frenchmen of this possibility, for reasons and criteria as diverse as fluctuating. The current situation shows that it is time to promote dual residence in a professional capacity, for several reasons. In terms of safety, first of all: at a time when we are fighting road deaths, how can we promote long and daily journeys by car, increasing fatigue, thus the frequency of accidents, instead of allowing workers who wish to stay there? From an ecological point of view, then: how can we promote an ecological and energy transition, by continuing to deduct travel expenses by car at the expense of double residence costs, even if this deduction is much more ecological and sustainable, since it causes fewer journeys by car? Madam Secretary of State, beyond the complexities of the dual residence system, which can exclude legitimate situations and put the French into difficulty simply because they are working, can you tell me what actions your ministry plans to review or modify this system, in order to make it more flexible or more flexible, and finally to be consistent with the various objectives that the Government has set itself?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u202	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u203	Member, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the General Tax Code, employees who opt for the deduction of their professional expenses for their actual and justified amount may deduct the costs of double residence from their taxable income against income tax. As stated in the administrative doctrine published in the Official Bulletin of Public Finance -Boi-RSA-BASE taxes-30-50-30-20, these double-residence expenses are defined as the additional expenses "actually incurred by an employee as a result of the employee's need to reside for professional reasons in a place separate from the employee's usual place of residence". If the dual residence is justified by the impossibility of maintaining a single residence taking into account the place of work of each of the spouses, and it does not result from a choice of simple personal convenience, the expenses of dual residence shall then be professional expenses, including in the absence of due diligence in order to obtain a rapprochement of the places of work. This rule applies without restriction, whether they are employees in the private or public sector, and that the change in the workplace of one of the spouses is the result of professional advancement or any other reason beyond his control. Whether these conditions are met is assessed in the light of the facts specific to each situation and, in any event, under the control of the tax judge. All these provisions demonstrate the legislator's willingness to establish an appropriate legal framework to take account of the situation of persons with occupational mobility. I understand your wish to assign an environmental objective to this dual-residence deduction scheme. However, as you said, it is also a mechanism to remove barriers to professional mobility and to take account of the actual professional expenses incurred. Extending the possibility of deducting double residency expenses to situations resulting from personal convenience choices would not achieve the objective you pursue, and would primarily lead to a boon effect. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that, at the initiative of the Government, several measures encouraging environmentally virtuous practices were adopted at the end of 2018. The cost of carpooling as a passenger by the employer for journeys between the home and the place of work is thus exempt from social security and income tax, up to a maximum of EUR 200 per year. The aid granted by certain local and regional authorities for these same journeys, as a carpool driver, is also exempt, up to a maximum of EUR 240 per year. With the conversion premium, measures have also been introduced to facilitate the conversion of the most polluting vehicles. Finally, the mobility guidance bill also includes proposals for a more comprehensive overhaul of home-to-work support schemes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u204	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u205	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. As you understand, even if you refer to a judgment on a case-by-case basis, I suggested a relaxation of the very strict conditions of the device. This question was asked to me by a resident of my constituency, faced with the difficulty of deducting these costs. I also recognize that the Government has recently taken action. However, I hope that my question will allow further reflection on this matter, which I believe is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u206	Mrs Danièle Cazarian has the floor to put her question, No. 635, on the special tax on large sports facilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u207	Madam Secretary of State, the great facilities for hosting sporting and cultural events are essential for the attractiveness of our country, the dynamism of the industry and sport and the international influence of France. No one would question the benefits of such equipment. However, it must be noted that they are also very important nuisances for the municipalities where they are located, through the overmobilisation of the transport infrastructure, the regular damage to the road and the energisation of the local services they entail. The legislator therefore provided for mechanisms of permanent compensation, initially by means of an affected tax, for the tax on performances and then, by means of a levy on revenue permitted by the VAT reform. However, within the framework of the Euro 2016 football programme, some municipalities have agreed to build large sports venues in their territory, relying on income from the entertainment tax to manage the inconveniences resulting from sports events. However, this tax was abolished between the start of the works and the delivery of the stadium, leaving the communes deprived, because they were not eligible for compensation. It therefore seems justified that the compensation for revenue imposed on the abolition of the tax on sports shows is to be established for the benefit not only of the municipalities, which actually collected it on the day of its abolition, but also of those which irremediably authorised the construction of equipment subject to the tax on sports shows before that abolition. As France prepares to receive major sporting events, it is necessary to support the municipalities that host this type of equipment on their territory, which is essential for France's attractiveness as a host country for major events with global reach. This is the case of the major stadium of the commune of Décines-Charpieu, the Groupama Stadium, near Lyon, which, again this summer, will host the semi-finals of the Women's World Cup. However, this medium-sized commune, which participates in the influence of French sport, does not receive a cent of compensation. Madam Secretary of State, my question is simple: how do you intend to redress this injustice, which weighs heavily on the finances of the commune of Décines?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u208	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u209	Madam Member, I know you've been following this file for a long time. You were received at the beginning of the year at the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, with the mayor of Décines-Charpieu, Laurence Fautra, who has a stadium in her commune. As you know, the 2015 Finance Act removed the "sport meetings" component of the performance tax base, while introducing a compensation mechanism for the local authorities concerned, which takes the form of a revenue levy. This was necessary in order to comply with European law, in order to avoid the imposition of sports meetings on both VAT and the tax on performances. Madam Member, you are asking me about the possibility of extending the compensation mechanism to cover potential shortfalls in revenue. This is indeed the case with Décines, since the stage was delivered after the removal of the tax even though, as you pointed out, the work started a little before. Local tax loss compensation schemes are always based on an effective revenue loss principle, which can be offset. To answer your question by going in your direction, you would have to go back to this principle, in order to retain another one, based on the appreciation of lost future revenues. Such a principle would unfortunately open heavy debates on many practical cases, beyond the specific situation you point to. On the other hand, let us not forget that any enlargement of the compensation base should necessarily be financed in State aid to local and regional authorities. I know that if you bear this conviction, it is also because you are sensitive to the financial situation of the commune of Décines, which is experiencing difficulties. These are not linked to this lack of compensation. Other ways exist to accompany the communes in difficulty, first of all that of Décines. We therefore naturally remain at your disposal as well as that of the Mayor, to exchange and determine how we can accompany the city of Décines-Charpieu.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u210	Mrs Danièle Cazarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u211	As you have pointed out at the moment, I am very committed to resolving this problem at a reasonable time. The commune of Décines suffers heavily from the lack of compensation and can no longer wait. Whatever the mechanism chosen – and I am thinking in particular of a possible contract with the State – I will remain very attentive, as I have been since the beginning of my mandate, to the support that the State must provide.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u212	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor to put her question, No 636, concerning the airport platform in Morlaix.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u213	I would like to draw your attention to the airport platform at Morlaix in Finistère. As you know, as I have already alerted you about this, in November 2016, the Regional Directorate of Customs and Indirect Rights of Brittany ended the derogations from the crossing of external borders, which were previously granted to the Morlaix platform. The decision was therefore taken by the Government to remove this border crossing point. Since then, Morlaix has no longer been accessible by air from countries outside the Schengen area, nor can it be accessed from Morlaix. In an open world and a globalised economy, it is a door that closes, it is complications that are added. Before the end of the derogations for crossing the external borders, the Morlaix border crossing point – PFF – was used. He only asks to be again. Indeed, the platform welcomes aircraft from local companies, Hop! – now Air France Hop – and Brittany Ferries or Sermeta, a world leader in the manufacture of heat exchangers for gas boilers. It is a nonsense, you will agree with me, to force them to stop in Brest or Saint-Brieuc before you can land in Morlaix. Our companies, and through them our entrepreneurs, need facilities to ensure their mobility and to develop their relationships with customers internationally. The disappearance of the WP affects the territory's ability to fix businesses on its soil. It also mortgages projects capable of energizing a platform in the uncertain future since the abolition of twenty-three posts at Air France Hop Morlaix this year. To ensure the sustainability of the site, this company would have to be able to open its workshops to third-party customers. In addition, local actors aim to develop a business aviation clientele. The WP would be a real added value in promoting our airport platform to both domestic and foreign customers. I am not amalgamating and I am not charging you with the previous decision to delete the WP. It is easily deduced that it was motivated by budgetary considerations, but, in reality, it is a question of savings of ends of candles! Developments can be found without real additional costs to the community. Indeed, it is possible to rely on the customs service of the port of Roscoff-Bloscon, only 25 kilometres away, which offers a quota of operators already approved and controlled by the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation and the EASA – European Aviation Safety Agency. In the context of scheduled flights, these personnel could be pooled between the two Roscoff and Morlaix sites, which have recently been increased by about ten, bringing the number of agents to about thirty-five. Would you be willing to encourage such developments – the reopening of a border crossing point for the Morlaix airport platform by pooling the staff of Roscoff customs? It would be a lever of attractiveness for the territory, allowing us to maintain the establishment of companies and to develop commercially the Morlaix platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u214	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u215	Morlaix airport lost its status as a border crossing point in 2011. A derogation had been granted by the Brittany Regional Customs Directorate to Brittany ferries and Brit Air, now Hop!, but it ended in 2016 with the re-establishment of border controls as part of the fight against terrorism. The requalification of the aerodrome as a WP requires referral to the Ministry of the Interior, which carries out an inter-ministerial consultation and decides on the request in the light of several criteria: the need to accommodate extra Schengen connections in the aerodrome in view of the local economic context; site layout – signage, separation of passenger flows, installation of diaphragms, network allowing file queries; the ability to assign a border control service on an ad hoc or permanent basis; the reasons why extra-Schengen traffic could not be covered by a PPF-qualified airport site nearby. In view of all these criteria, there has been a residual flow of extra-Schengen private flights to this airport and the lack of adequate infrastructure, which does not allow the reopening of a WP to be considered today. In addition, the Brest WP is located about 50 kilometres away. It is therefore possible, as is already the case, to carry out the control formalities at Brest before leaving towards Morlaix airport. This solution preserves the attractiveness of the department, as the city of Morlaix is not deprived of any capacity to receive extra Schengen flights. The Roscoff Customs Brigade, which you are planning to mobilise, is already very busy at the Roscoff WP and will be heavily affected by the Brexit, which will result in the introduction of additional customs formalities. There are plans for additional troops, but they will be fully absorbed by these new missions. The Roscoff Brigade will be even less available to carry out migration checks in Morlaix.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u216	Mrs Sandrine Le Feur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u217	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer and for that clarification. However, I continue to work on the reopening of this WP in order to develop Morlaix airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u218	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor to put her question, No 646, concerning the Dassault plant in Argenteuil.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u219	Madam Secretary of State, today I want to alert you and raise your awareness of the industrial and economic issues of the Argenteuil territory, while the Dassault aviation group announced on 18 January the relocation of its factory to the neighbouring town of Cergy-Pontoise. This plant has been located in Argenteuil since 1951. Its relocation raises enormous concerns: not only among the inhabitants – it is the territory's first private employer – but also among the entrepreneurs and the local economic fabric that receive a severe blow there. I share these concerns and have had the opportunity to alert the Prime Minister and several members of the Government in recent months to the situation. I have also met on various occasions with the factory leaders and again this morning with Dassault Aviation's P-DG to defend the alternatives to this relocation. He assured me that there was no question of layoffs. However, I deplore the sudden announcement of this relocation. I am aware, however, that this announcement must ask us about our territory's ability to maintain its attractiveness. After sixty-eight years in Argenteuil, the presence of Dassault had become acquired for many; Our territory is certainly paying for a staggering lack of initiative and ambition today. We cannot remain passive, nor can we be the victims of intensified competition between neighbouring territories and friends, which would add to the problems of Argenteuillais a decline in local employment. The industry is changing, it has to change in Argenteuil too. Every effort must now be made to ensure that Argenteuil, an industrial flagship yesterday, does not become a post-industrial desert tomorrow. Our territory today has huge assets: 112000 inhabitants, within the Grand Paris, on the Seine, ten minutes from Paris-Saint-Lazare. Argenteuil can count on many entrepreneurs engaged and mobilized within particularly dynamic business networks, which must be helped to grow. In this context, it seems to me essential that the State, which is an important customer of Dassault, do everything possible to find an alternative to this relocation. But I also think it is necessary, more broadly, to move forward and to create the conditions for Argenteuil's industrial and economic success for tomorrow. The Government's engagement with us is essential in order to find ways to make our heritage and industrial potential shine. The state has recognized the historical industrial dimension of Argenteuil by making it one of 124 industrial territories. It is an important opportunity to lay the foundations for an industrial future that meets the potential of Argenteuil: this mechanism must enable companies to attract and grow, especially in the sectors of the future. Industry, let's go! What means can the Government mobilize, on our side, in the short, medium and longer term to ensure the economic future of our territory of 112,000 inhabitants, a territory of industry and innovation yesterday, but also tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u220	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u221	You draw my attention to the situation of the Dassault d'Argenteuil plant and, in particular, to the decision issued on 5 February by Dassault Aviation to undertake the construction of a new plant in the same department, in the agglomeration of Cergy-Pontoise, located about 20 kilometers away. Dassault Aviation states that it did not find in Argenteuil any available land compatible with its industrial programs and, as a result, decided to build a new plant in the agglomeration of Cergy-Pontoise. This reorganization is part of the transformation plan launched in 2016, which aims to further specialize and modernize each of the nine aircraft manufacturer's sites, in order to better respond to the challenges of launching new civilian and military programs. The transfer to Cergy, in consultation with the trade unions, responds to operational constraints of the aircraft manufacturer, which a modernisation of the Argenteuil site did not allow to satisfy, in particular in view of the need to put in production a new apparatus on the horizon of 2021. I am well aware of this, it is today a page that turns for elected officials and employees of the Argenteuil factory, owned by Dassault since 1951 and an integral part of the heritage of this industrial city, which has hosted many activities in the fields of automobiles and aeronautics in particular. With this project, Dassault Aviation nevertheless strengthens its industrial establishment in Île-de-France. It has provided social support measures to help employees who would like to move closer to the future site of Cergy. Finally, it will be fully engaged in the dismantling of the site and its clean-up to allow for new uses. It will be attentive to the entire ecosystem and the subcontracting fabric that you mentioned. A new stage is now beginning in order to draw up a plan for the redevelopment of the 12 hectares of the site and to set up new activities or even housing if the municipality so decides. It is therefore necessary to make use of the period which begins before the permanent transfer of the activity, in order to ensure the success of the conversion of the site. You rightly refer to the Industrial Territories and Argenteuil Labelling program among the 136 territories retained by the Government. It seems to me essential to engage in the contract-making and to define the development project of Boucle Nord de Seine, so that all the challenges of reconversion of the Dassault site are fully taken into account and benefit from the support of the programme, endowed with 1.3 billion euros for the whole of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u222	Mr David Habib, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 659, concerning the hydrogen pipeline in the Lacq basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u223	Once again, I would like to make you aware of the issue of the hydrogen pipeline in the Lacq basin in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques. We have obtained, against the Government which was rather obtuse on this point, the continuation of gas extraction on the Lacq basin beyond 2040, as well as for the nearby Vic-Bilh deposit. The gas extracted from the Lacq Basin is naturally charged with sulphur and hydrogen sulfide. It is therefore possible to easily develop an industrial strategy around hydrogen. This is the whole meaning of an approach which has been supported by the local union of the CGT and relayed by all the trade union organisations, as well as by the employers, which sees the development of this sector as a happy initiative allowing, in parallel with the efforts of reconversion and mutation undertaken for several years, to ensure definitively the future of the Lacq basin. According to predictions, the Lacq Basin was to last 50 years. I am confident that it will last much longer, much longer than your majority and our opposition. What initiatives does the Government intend to take to seize this opportunity, which is a consensus among political and social actors? The feasibility study that has been carried out will be made public. It was not easy to find the funding to carry it out, Madam Secretary of State. You have nothing to do with it, because you were not part of the Government at that time. On the other hand, this was the case with Mr. Le Maire. It had been easier to act under the previous majority: Christophe Sirugue, whom I greet, had been very attentive to our inquiries. I would like to hear from you about this, knowing that nothing will be done beyond the will of the public authorities, which you are going to express today, or without, of course, involving the Total and Air Liquid groups, which are installed in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u224	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u225	Mr. Habib, the Government set itself a carbon-neutral target in 2050, which will be declined in our industry. To this end, it has included the decarbonization of the industry as one of the strategic projects in its industrial roadmap. Our industrial winback strategy is based on the mobilisation of professional channels, within the framework of strategic sector contracts, and on the dynamics of territories. The territories and their initiative are the catalysts for this strategy. I am already pleased with the success of the Industry Territories initiative, which enables relations within each territory concerned to be brought into line. The animation is entrusted to the regional councils, and the steering, to the presidents of intercommunality and to the local industrialists. This effort at the local level is complemented by a specific commitment by the State and public operators – the Bank of the Territories, Bpifrance, Business France, Pôle Emploi, the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – which mobilise a wide range of public policies to support and support projects in industry territories. More than 1.3 billion euros are being directed primarily towards these territories. The case of the Lacq site is emblematic of the transition we are experiencing and the transformation challenges we are facing. Historically producing hydrocarbons, the platform has transformed and now looks to the future, with the hydrogen production project you mentioned. Hydrogen is a key technology to achieve our goal of decarbonisation and has been the subject of a specific plan, announced by the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition last June. We are also struck by the number of hydrogen-related projects emerging in the national territory. I am pleased that the study on the possibility of building a hydrogen pipeline at Lacq can serve as a support for the sustained initiative in the Lacq-Pau-Tarbes industry territory. As you know, a memorandum of understanding on this territory of industry was signed yesterday between the elected representatives of the local authorities and the industrialists. It symbolizes the industrial renewal that we want to promote through the Territories of Industry initiative. Be aware that we will be very attentive to the fulfilment of this contract. The framework it sets is not closed: everyone has the right to have good complementary ideas, which can be put into practice. The important thing is that the momentum is now in place. In any case, it is clear that hydrogen is one of the technologies that will enable us to ensure the ecological and energy transition. It is now important to launch and support sustainable projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u226	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u227	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. You could not say more, because today we are at the beginning of a process. You have rightly noted that many hydrogen-related projects are emerging in the national territory and that the Lacq site is fully intended to host a hydrogen pipeline, given its past, the acceptability of the populations and the training of employees. I invite you, Madam Secretary of State, to come to Béarn. You can see that the Lacq industrial complex, originally based on gas extraction, has been undergoing its transformation for decades. It has moved on to another chemistry, that of molecules, that of intelligence. It has maintained its expertise in energy, particularly in the field of biofuels and composite materials. Today, all Boeing – Airbus supplies itself to another manufacturer – contain carbon fiber made at home. Come to Béarn, Madam Secretary of State. I am convinced that the whole social body, despite the political differences that may exist between us, will be able to block the development of the hydrogen chain, which you have today expressed the will to support on the hexagonal territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u228	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-03-26-O1195.u229	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Explanations of vote and public vote on the draft law on the organization and transformation of the health system; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the situation and practices of large-scale distribution and their groupings in their commercial relations with suppliers; Discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate after the expedited procedure, on the representation of administrative, technical and specialized staff on the boards of directors of the departmental fire and rescue services; Further discussion of the proposed law to improve the cash flow of associations. The meeting is adjourned.
