ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u1	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly (No. 1882, 1955).
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u2	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u3	I hope that our rapporteur will be able to defend the National Assembly, and the expression of the Members!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u4	Reforming the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is a beautiful and difficult mission. We have a responsibility to change the functioning of the beating heart of our democracy, and we all measure the importance of this task. Why change? This is the first question that arises. There were 75,000 amendments in the penultimate legislature; There will be at the current rate of 150000 during the latter, i.e. a growth of 100 %. There were just over 5000 sitting hours in the penultimate legislature; At our current pace, we will be close to 7,000 at the end of this year, an increase of 40%. No rule can stand up to such increases without evolution, without questioning. Many of us also have a deep sense that our working methods – the simultaneousity of meetings, the votes at four o'clock in the morning with 80 Members in the Chamber, the lack of legibility of our debates – are a problem that needs to be addressed. But we also have to change because we have to meet new citizen and democratic demands: firstly, a requirement of ethics and transparency, points on which we provide elements of response; but also a requirement of direct expression of citizens' voices, thanks to petitions. This is an achievement of the French Revolution which has fallen into disuse, and which we must renew. This text, which I have the honour to be the rapporteur and which we are going to discuss, was drawn up by President Richard Ferrand after a broad consultation which I would like to return to. This process began with the seven trans-party working groups in which many of you participated for 18 months. This was followed by six months of consultation with each of the group presidents. Many of their proposals have been incorporated into the text. These two steps led to a text that was sent to each of the Members on 12 March – you have had time to appropriate it – and which was presented by the President himself to different political groups. Let us be clear: this text is outside the scope of any constitutional reform. This means that some of us will have some frustration, because we will not be able to touch the limits of responsibilities between the Assembly and the executive, nor to reorganise our working time over the year, as we might have wished. We must also bear in mind that the Constitutional Council clearly recalled in 2014 that the rules of procedure of the assemblies must be strictly limited to provisions relating to their organization and functioning, the legislative procedure and the monitoring of the Government's action. I will therefore be led to give an opinion against certain amendments, in compliance with this decision, even if the amendment may be interesting in substance. But, with a constant constitutional framework, this text brings major advances, organised around four axes. The first is the improvement of the legislative procedure. As a follow-up to the 2008 constitutional reform, we are further strengthening the role of the commissions. We are innovating by putting in place a so-called committee procedure of legislation, which can be used if all political groups accept it. We affirm a clear and concise statement by each political group on the text and on the article: it is a new balance which, I know, will be debated. We are putting an end to this endless beginning of text tunnel, which so many of us do not attend because it is tedious. We gather the votes on Tuesday, after questions to the Government, rather than at the end of the night. We delete the motions for referral back to committee which have almost never been completed since 1958. We are renovating the scheduled legislative time, including by introducing new rights for the opposition, so that the Conference of Presidents can rethink its use. All these reforms are aimed at greater efficiency in our debates, and history has shown that efficiency and quality are not contradictory. The second is the strengthening of the rights of opposition groups and minority groups as well as those of non-attached Members: fourteen articles, or almost one third of the text, deal with this subject. Among the most emblematic measures are the modernization of questions to the Government – we will return to them, and I will be in favour of several amendments on this subject – the allocation of the first two vice-chairmen to the opposition, the representation of all the groups on the Joint Joint Committees and the possibility of actually discussing the texts proposed in the parliamentary niches, by deleting the motions that are now almost systematically tabled. There are also new opposition rights which, I know, will still be widely debated. I am thinking of the possibility for a group to choose between the position of chairman or rapporteur in the commissions of inquiry and the fact-finding missions set up at its initiative, the new distribution of questions to the Government between opposition and majority, and the rights of non-attached deputies, which are also strengthened. The third priority, as a follow-up to the law on confidence in political life, is to take a course in transparency and ethics. The mechanism for the prevention and treatment of conflicts of interest is strengthened, in particular by the introduction of a new deportation procedure; the duties and powers of the ethics officer shall be exercised, whether in relation to the control of the use of the advance of mandate fees or in relation to representatives of interests; we register new reporting and transparency obligations... In short, we are responding to a democratic demand, with a keen awareness of the need for exemplaryness and transparency. We are taking a step in this area that has never been so far. Many of us are very committed to these major political advances proposed by President Ferrand. The fourth and final axis responds to the need to open our institution to citizen participation. To this end, it is proposed to renovate the procedure for the right to petition. This procedure is no longer in use, and we want to revive it. Many of these points come from proposals from different groups. During the examination of this text, I will highlight these contributions, in order to show you their importance in the construction of this text. Our work in committee has allowed us to make some 15 significant changes, which have been fed into the amendments and our discussions. There are important points, such as the grouping of day-to-day votes after questions to the Government, strong ethical measures, a mechanism against harassment from a trans-party parliamentary working group on the subject, or debates before European councils. This work also allowed further reflection between the committee meetings and the discussion in the Chamber, which led to clarifications of the position of each group on the night sittings or on the opposition groups. I will have to introduce new consolidated amendments on certain points, such as petitions, parity or evaluation. But certain positions, let us be clear, are irreconcilable. Should we or should we not increase the minimum size of the groups to 5% of the Members? There is no consensus on the allocation of speaking time between the group and the Member either: should a group speak on behalf of its Members on the rule, or in case of identical amendments? Is it necessary, or not, to reduce the time taken to defend motions from thirty to fifteen minutes and the time taken to speak in the general debate from ten to five minutes? We will therefore have to decide in this Chamber, I am aware of that. President Ferrand has found in this text, I believe, a fair balance. This proposal for a new regulation will not reconcile irreconcilable positions, but will be an important step in the life of our Assembly. We propose major advances, going, I believe, as far as we could go to "iso-constitution". We are doing this thanks to a remarkable method of consultation with all the political groups, which is in line with the latest reform led by Claude Bartolone and which is part of a genuine co-construction. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is this search for the right balance that I believe will have to guide our debates; a fair balance which this text can legitimately claim, and which I, for my part, will defend with commitment and determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u5	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u6	Everyone will have understood this, it is a particular text that we are looking at today. It is first and foremost a particular text by its nature: it deals with the rule of our work, with our deliberations, and therefore in a certain way with the rule of democracy. These rules belong to us, and even if the Constitutional Council is called upon to know about them, we are the only ones to deliberate; the bench of ministers is not occupied, and there is no shuttle. It's not nothing! It is also a particular text by its author, the President of the National Assembly, who prepared it for months by bringing together at regular intervals the presidents of our respective groups. I agree with the method he is proposing. "Without waiting for the evolution of the constitutional framework, we must use all the room for manoeuvre that we have," you wrote, Mr. President. This is all the more justified in view of the fact that much can already be done by amending the regulation, and in particular by correcting some of the dysfunctions that we see on a daily basis in our deliberations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is also a particular text by its rapporteur, Sylvain Waserman, Vice-President of the Assembly, whom I thank for having agreed to accompany our work with talent, on behalf of the Committee on Laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u7	And with brilliance!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u8	This text is in our hands. Ideally, our choices would be consensual... But I am aware that this consensus seems beyond our reach: the procedural motions that have been tabled and the more than 800 amendments to be considered seem to confirm this. No consensus therefore, not more so than in 2009 in particular. However, I remain convinced that agreements, at least partial ones, are possible, and that we must tirelessly seek them. I observe, indeed, and this is a prerequisite, that everyone can find himself in the four objectives proposed for our reflection, which have been recalled by our rapporteur. The first objective is to reform our working methods: who here can be satisfied with the current situation? We are legislating, of course, and well, I believe it. But the fabric of the law, hampered by over-repetitive expressions and a number of amendments that reach peaks, can become more effective. The second objective is to strengthen the rights of the opposition: there is no strong parliament when the opposition is not respected. In any event, the strengthening of the opposition's rights to control is the corollary of the framework of the legislative procedure. The third objective is to strengthen the ethical framework within which Members exercise their mandate: ethics is a common imperative that the faults of a few do not resonate with the greatest number, so as not to feed populism. We began the legislature with laws, ordinary and organic, for confidence in political life; We can continue this necessary movement with this text. The fourth objective is to adjust the petitions procedure: we are all looking for new ways to improve citizen participation. In committee, we have been able to discuss and listen to these four objectives. Four meetings, two Wednesdays, fourteen hours of exchange: it was necessary. When appropriate, we found ways to extend our discussions informally on other topics, such as sitting days and schedules or the definition of opposition groups. At this stage, I remain convinced that beyond the letter of the Rules of Procedure, we can also, through practice, consultation and dialogue, do better to organise our work. I know that each of our committees innovates, adapts its working methods, according to its traditions, its specificities or its members. With regard to the Law Commission, its office, which had already met more in two years than under the previous legislature, had initiated collective actions such as work on detention or numerous field visits. This choice of dealing with subjects collectively and with a very concrete prism allowed us to anticipate as much as to deepen. Our debates have been richer, more precise, more serene, too. We have decided to open the committee, sitting outside the walls, as well as at Fresnes prison, or going to meet other institutions, as we will soon do in Strasbourg to dialogue with the European Court of Human Rights. For, beyond their own organization, effective work is work whose effects will be concrete and correspond to the realities of the ground and the needs of our citizens. We have been able to put in place many instruments which are now proposed to be included in the Rules of Procedure: the distribution of posts and proportional reports, the very early appointment of the implementing rapporteurs, the appointment of an opposition rapporteur for pre-appointment hearings or the follow-up of orders. With the help of everyone, we have made the Commission a body where it is possible to work in good intelligence. The representatives of the non-attached Members were able, without waiting for the reform of the Rules of Procedure, to speak when they wished to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is now up to us to work together. Let us not be afraid of reform, it is necessary. If unanimity seems inaccessible, let us seek at least the widest possible agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u9	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u10	Parliament is the floor. But this draft resolution aims to contain it, not only that of the opposition, but that of all parliamentarians – a word that has been entrusted to us by the people, on their behalf, and that no one can confiscate us.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u12	On behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I have the honour to defend this motion of rejection because it is unbearable for us to see our right to the expression contained, therefore forced.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u13	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u14	We oppose this reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House as a result of the work of the Law Committee. We hope that in the course of the parliamentary debate you will take note of our proposals and amendments, in order to arrive at a collapsing text, as the chairman of the committee has just mentioned. There's still time. Let me remind you, in response to what you have just said, that this requirement for consensus animated Claude Bartolone in 2014. Rather than imposing non-unanimous provisions, he had preferred to withdraw them from his reform. You have so far chosen to favour the majority fact. This debate can allow us to move forward positively in order to achieve this balance. Of course, Mr President, you will tell us that your reform creates new rights for the opposition: we acknowledge the reform of the assessment and oversight committee, the composition of the committee bureau, or the election of an opposition first vice-president. I would also like to point out that it has been very pleasant to work with the rapporteur, under the authority of the President, and that the President of this House, Mr Richard Ferrand, has multiplied the initiatives to listen to the proposals we have put forward. These positive measures do not, however, counterbalance the shortcomings that we have identified and which I will detail. The motion for prior rejection that we are presenting is justified by the flagrant inadvisability of the draft resolution and by the manifestly unconstitutional nature of some of the proposed provisions. Its inopportunity lies first of all in the timetable chosen. The rapporteur has just revealed to us the weakness of this. This reform thus appears to be a sandwich reform, stuck between an aborted constitutional reform and a announced constitutional reform. If a reform is to take place, it is that of the Constitution, before that of the Rules of Procedure of this House! This was the case in 2008 and 2009. You do the opposite. You say that you want to fluidise, energize and modernise parliamentary work in order, in fact, to better protect the parliamentary majority in this forthcoming constitutional debate. In fact, it is quite remarkable to note that some of the measures that were included in the first constitutional bill are reflected in the present reform of the regulation. The strengthening of the inadmissibility of the amendments, in particular, which was constitutional in July 2018, is part of a simple draft resolution in May 2019. Look for the mistake! But the inopportunity also consists in misidentifying the dysfunctions of our parliamentary life and correcting them in fact only at the margin. You have just mentioned the time spent in this House, or the number of amendments – I will also give some statistics earlier. But, rapporteur, do you not have the impression that the first culprit is the executive, the government, often versatile, not respecting our procedures, ill-informed about the realities of our country? This applies not only to the present majority, but to all majorities, all executives. It is a clear mistake to focus on parliamentarians alone to be responsible for these malfunctions. You do it, like all the majority powers in this House. As for unconstitutionality, it is first of all the questioning of the representative mandate: we are being imposed by successive touches an imperative mandate. unconstitutionality is also the lack of clarity and sincerity in our debates, while the Constitutional Council, on six occasions, has ruled on this requirement. The unconstitutionality, finally, is to ignore the principle of equality between us. We are making respect for parliamentary speech an absolute prerequisite. We do not want this word to be diminished, devalued and ultimately degraded. The first of the wounds you are inflicting on us is to replace the free expression of each person with a single expression per group. In the name of what? You say it's in the name of speed and efficiency. Let it be definitively said here, as Olivier Marleix has shown, that the length of time for the adoption of a text is longer in Germany than it is in France. Your whole reform of the Rules of Procedure is based on "less expression for Members" – and you are taking decisions in this direction. That is the case with procedural motions. You are proposing that we amend Rules 91 and 108 of the current Rules of Procedure to limit procedural motions. You delete the motion to refer to committee and reduce the time required to defend motions with an unstoppable argument: no motion or almost any motion by the opposition has been adopted. But if that was the case, then delete the opposition's amendments, delete the questions that it asked and to which the executive never answers! For the good information of our colleagues, in 2009 we moved from three procedural motions to two. In 2019, we are about to move from two procedural motions to one. In addition, since 1999, there has been a steady decline in the time for motions of procedure: since 1999 it was unlimited, it has been reduced to one hour thirty in 1999 and then thirty minutes in 2006. If your project were adopted, this time of presentation would be only fifteen minutes from 2019. Furthermore, articles 8 and 23 of the draft resolution intended to limit statements in general discussion. From now on, the rule would be one speaker per group, for five minutes. Imagine: five minutes for a group on the Public Service Transformation Bill; five minutes tomorrow, on retreats; Five minutes a day, about bioethics laws! Who can believe that, in five minutes, a family of thought can enlighten public opinion on the totality of a text? In addition to motions and statements in general discussion, interventions on the articles will be limited. By proposing to amend Rules 54 and 95 of the current Rules of Procedure, you announce that the number of members on the Rules will be limited to one speaker per group, as well as one Member who is not registered. The speaker will be appointed by the chair of the group. The explanations of vote on the articles would be deleted. And there are still amendments to the amendments, to the number of amendments, to the reminders to the Rules of Procedure, to the requests for suspension of sittings... We are contesting this drift, this desire that drives you to reduce the opportunity for Members to speak in the House. Recognize that there has been no abuse in this House. I have been there since 2002, like others here, and some of them may have been there for a longer time: we have never experienced any drifts in this area! Mr President, since that is what you have in mind, which derailed last July, it is not the parliamentary procedure: it is an assistant chief of staff of the Elysée who behaved like a nervi. What derailed was the Elysée himself who, to the surprise of the whole country, spoiled and protected him beyond normal. To criminalize the parliamentary procedure because there was Alexander Benalla, that is null and void and it nourishes the bad climate that our democracy is experiencing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u15	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u16	In the tone of confidence, Mr President, I would say that in this period you were the only one of the majority to be up to the challenge. And you were not with the regulation you are proposing, but with the regulation that was drawn up in 2009 and 2014. To deal with a crisis situation, and it was one, no one needs to resort to a settlement that would quota, limit, prohibit the speech: it is enough to have a little experience and, if you allow me the compliment, of talent. Today, you are proposing a mechanism that will obviously have dramatic consequences for life in this House. After referring to the motions, the general discussion, the suspension of sittings, the discussion of the articles, I want to address the systematic review of the administrative admissibility of the amendments. As I indicated earlier, you are resuming in your resolution a provision that was provided for in the constitutional bill of July 2018. Thus, in Articles 24 and 26 of this resolution, you wish to introduce a systematic review of the legislative admissibility of amendments under Article 41. As all political observers say, this provision will have catastrophic effects on our democratic life, as it will limit the initiative capacity of every Member. Who, then, today ignores what is a matter of law and regulation? Almost always, the Government. And who can assure, implacably, that a particular provision is a matter of law and not of regulation, or the other way around? Certainly not a committee chair – don't see it as a personal attack, Madam Chair. It is up to us, collectively, to deliberate on this matter, and it is up to the constitutional judge to censor the provisions that would be considered an abuse of power by our assembly or the Senate. The election does not confer such a power, manifestly exorbitant, on a single elected official. This inadmissibility provision is part of your project: limiting parliamentarians' right of expression. You pretend to fluidize, to energize, to modernise parliamentary work, but you make this chamber a place where only political parties will express themselves, one after the other. You can even be wary of the word, to favour a written contribution system whose negative consequences we will see very quickly, particularly in terms of assessing the personal work of each person. We mentioned it in committee: our society has changed, it is more complex. Our approach to subjects in the same political group is often different. In this House, we are all shaped not only by our convictions, but also by our experiences, especially on the ground. And then, in this country, we do not do politics in the same way between rural and urban, between North and South. How many times have I been in doubt, even in divergence, when one of my socialist friends had just spoken? However, my solidarity and loyalty to my political formation and its activists remain the same. Tomorrow, because you will have limited the interventions on the article to one speaker per group, you will have restricted the plurality that must necessarily exist within the groups, you will have prevented the debate, which the French call for their wishes, also exist within the families of thought. You want us all to think the same way! Of course, you expect the Conference of Presidents to set a derogation period according to the texts. But admit that this is the whim, the generosity, the discretion of the majority formation. In democracy, it's not healthy. Finally, it is especially the debate itself that will suffer from this lack of plurality. On each article, we need to be informed, to measure the scope of our decisions. If you limit the speeches to one speaker per group, eight today, each for two minutes, do you think that the House will be sufficiently enlightened, in particular on the articles that are most important to the lives of our fellow citizens? I don't believe it. Our collective experience leads me to make this observation, and, each of you, inside, sharing. Finally, we fear that the parliamentary word will be degraded because your proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure are all in the same direction, adding to each other. I could have admitted some isolated provisions. I could have admitted, for example, on behalf of the consensus, the quota of the number of motions. But not if it is added to the limitation of speeches in general discussion, to the reduction of speeches on the articles and to the impossibility of defending an amendment on grounds of inadmissibility! It is the addition of measures that is problematic. If any measure can be agreed, the concomitant application of all the provisions will necessarily distort the parliamentary procedure and alter our role in this House. In our view, the systematic limitations on Members' speaking time undermine the principle of clarity and sincerity of parliamentary debates, another constitutional principle that must be respected. Article 6 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, according to which the law is the expression of the general will, or the first paragraph of article 3 of the Constitution, according to which national sovereignty is exercised by the representatives of the people, are recalled in many literature. It is the principle of clarity and sincerity of the discussions that is the condition for the application of these two articles. It is therefore necessary to preserve it. As early as 2003, as Mr Damien Chamussy recalls in the Constitutional Council's New Cahiers in January 2013, the Constitutional Council considered that the right of amendment and recourse to procedures should be guaranteed to all parliamentarians. Since 2003, the Council has acted on six occasions on issues as diverse as the length of speaking time, the deadline for tabling amendments, the completeness of committee proceedings, or the maximum duration of consideration of a text. Beyond this principle of sincerity and clarity, this reform of the Rules of Procedure also weakens another fundamental principle of our public life: the one according to which every mandatory mandate is void – it is Article 27 of the Constitution that says so. Every Member, regardless of his group, must be able to speak. It's a matter of freedom. It's a question of independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u17	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u18	[[Applause on the SOC, GDR and LR benches]] Freedom and independence from the executive branch; freedom and independence from its political party; freedom and independence from its parliamentary group. Our Republic enshrines the principle of free accession and the prohibition of any guardianship. By establishing a link of subordination with a parliamentary group, measure after measure, you degrade the MP's role by limiting him to the role of representative of his family of thought, while he is the representative of the whole nation. Without saying it, without naming it, always in the name of fluidity, dynamics and modernization, you bring this imperative mandate to life. However, since the 1st Republic, all the great names of French democracy have risen to challenge, rightly, the principle. All, at dramatic moments for our country as in more serene times, all, left and right, recalled that there could be no democracy without true freedom for each of the people's representatives. Let me see – this is not an invitation to change assembly! – that tomorrow, senators will have a higher right of expression than ours, when they are not the direct representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u19	It's a height!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u20	Mr President, on this motion of rejection, I wanted to point out that parliamentary democracy is based on principles and not on circumstances. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Your reform is clever, because it comes at a time when anti-parliamentarianism is strong in the country. Let us not misunderstand: I do not accuse you of being animated by this bad feeling and I am the first, but not the only, to say that your election to the perch gave our institution a serious and freedom that we had lost under your predecessor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u21	What a shoe polish!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u22	This is what you do not accept: freedom of expression! I demonstrated it and I maintain what I just said. I know your commitment to the notion of balance, Mr. President. But, like many students, who are currently taking their exams, you're better at speaking than writing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u23	Obviously, you've been sloppy!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u24	In writing, you want to put our institutions at the disposal of a majority and an executive who have painfully experienced the Benalla affair and wish to protect themselves, as we approach constitutional reform. You're making a mistake. This reform of the House must certainly take account of the complexity of the lawmaking process, the abolition of the cumulation of mandates, the new means of communication, and the European framework which is now ours. But the modernization of our parliamentary life cannot lead to an imbalance in our procedures and to the limitation of parliamentary speech. The wrong law, the talkable law, the law discussed in bad conditions, is first and foremost the Government. I bring two edifying examples. First, a few months ago, we were looking at the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law. Nothing then in the bill related to the Child Offender Ordinance 1945. Madame La Garde des Seales, in an interview with the newspaper Le Monde, stated that the text was not intended to modify its provisions. But in an amendment tabled the day before the bill was considered, the Government proposed that we review the order... [[Applause on the SOC and LR panels]] And this is not the only text concerned: who, here, was not surprised by amendments tabled at the last minute by the Government? Another example is the Hulot law, which put an end to the extraction of gas and oil. According to the impact assessment, 300 employees, at best, were to be affected by its provisions in 2040. However, in my constituency, in the Lacq basin, more than 8,000 people are directly or indirectly affected by gas extraction. In Béarn, in petrochemicals, in geosciences, in extraction, in Lacq, in Pau, in Vic-Bilh, 20,000 people could have been affected by this law, directly or indirectly, if we had not included derogation provisions. Who, here, can be satisfied with the current procedures for evaluation, monitoring and impact assessment? As a result, the law suffers not from too many reminders or too many sittings, but from haste, lack of knowledge, and sometimes even contempt of some elites for the multiple realities of our country. Finally, whenever the power wanted to reduce Members' speaking time, it has actually increased: the number of amendments has increased, the length of debates has increased, the number of articles has increased. Here I have an enlightening picture on this subject. The collection of laws, published annually by the Assembly, consisted of 620 pages and weighed 912 grams in 1970, 632 pages and 1022 grams in 1980, 1663 pages and 2700 grams in 2000. There have been measures of quota of speech... and we have seen an explosion in speaking time, in the number of amendments and in the length of the laws! But this is not the fact of the House: perhaps it is the fact of the complexity of our society, and above all of the will of the government. However, in 2004 there were 2553 pages and 3266 grams. You will not tackle this simply, I repeat, because it is the Government's responsibility. I am not saying that quotas are the cause of this development. I am simply saying that the limitation of Members' speaking time is not the solution. I also note that, since the presidential election, you have played the same score: if France is going badly, it is because of the intermediate bodies and the elected representatives, too many, too close to their voters, and having too much power. You want to reduce their number, their legitimacy – by using proportionalness – and, in this House, their time of expression. For you, and to take a word from our colleague Stéphane Peu, the parliamentary debate must look like a board of directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u25	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u26	You're wrong. Mr President, for having under the previous legislature often presided over the work of this House – we were then in the same group! – I know that compromises, largely majority agreements and even consensus are possible. As you know, the debate is always a source of wealth. Word is a founder, every word creates a world. In this House, because our democracy has been consolidated by crises and trials, we are enriched by the management of our disagreements and contradictions. With your reform of the Rules of Procedure, you take the risk of seeing the word go into exile outside the Bourbon Palace.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u27	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u28	You're the majority. Your duty is to encourage speech, to accept free debate. [[Applause on the SOC, LR and GDR benches]] I have just detailed legal and expedient arguments, as required by a motion of rejection. But beyond that, our duty is to preserve a living democracy, to ensure that Parliament remains a place of exchange. At this stage, it requires the adoption of this motion, and then, in a consensual manner and under your authority, Mr. Chairman, to resume this work and to meet the demands of efficiency, clarity, sincerity and freedom that we must all bear. The Socialist and Related Group is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u29	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u30	Some elements of a response to my position on this motion. Firstly, this reform would not, in your view, make any sense, since it would not have been preceded by constitutional reform. I was not a Member of Parliament in 2014 but, unless I was mistaken, there had been no constitutional review prior to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure! The configuration was therefore identical.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u31	But there's one planned soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u32	Secondly, rest assured, each of the sentences we are going to write will go under the caudine forks of the Constitutional Council. This one will read them with great attention, don't worry. More fundamentally, to hear you, the behaviour of the executive would be the cause of many of our evils. If I believe the figures, since the beginning of this legislature, the government has tabled 710 amendments – a projection of 2367 for the entire legislature. Under the previous legislature, 4101 government amendments were registered.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u33	I didn't talk about the current government, but about all the executives!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u34	We cannot therefore speak of degradation: on the contrary, the behaviour of the current executive seems to me more virtuous in this field. Finally, Articles 41 and 45 obviously apply to both Members' amendments and those of the government. The jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council is clear: legislative riders must be avoided and better legislation must be enacted. I therefore express a negative opinion on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u35	We're going to do arithmetic in this debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u36	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Brigitte Kuster.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u37	We share the desire to improve parliamentary life and to combat the inflation of texts. Nevertheless, we are all here, outside our political groups, representatives of the people. To a large extent, the new regulation you are proposing denies our personality and the territory of which we are elected. It removes the possibility for us to amend texts, to express ourselves in case of identical amendments. I'm a new elected woman. Since the beginning of the legislature, I note that the slightest bill that has been considered in the context of parliamentary niches has been rejected. You are keeping us in a lock-up whose new regulation will not allow us to go out because it does not offer everyone the opportunity to express themselves better. That is all our concern: Parliament, its rights and, above all, those of Members of Parliament may not emerge from this reform. In the European Parliament, as we know, there are sometimes agreements between groups and things are changing. Here we see the rigidity of the institution and the majority group: at no time do you enter into discussions with us, whatever the subject. This difficulty is obvious: from now on, we are quite often in agreement with the Socialist and related group, or even with that of La France insoumée, because you do not listen to us. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Of course, we do not agree on the solutions, but we ask to be able, sometimes, to express ourselves. Unfortunately, the new regulation will not allow us to do so. That is why the Republican Group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u38	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u39	I think we're all listening here. This is very important, and we are here to do that. On the other hand, we cannot ignore the dysfunctions in our organization, with regard to the planning of debates, the ever-increasing number of amendments tabled at the sitting or the significant prolongation of debates, without this necessarily enriching them or improving the quality of the laws we produce. It is therefore our collective responsibility to reform the Rules of Procedure of this House. That is precisely the purpose of this motion for a resolution. The status quo is not an option: it would mean neglecting the trust that our fellow citizens give us, some of which misjudge our functioning. We must anchor Parliament in modernity and in the daily lives of our fellow citizens. It is not a question of making Members mute, but, on the contrary, of giving meaning to the parliamentary word, which must be – it is the meaning of what is proposed – a concentrated and valuable word, on every bench. In the European Parliament, as you know, there is the catch-the-eye procedure. These are interventions that last a minute...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u40	For shades, it's excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u41	... and contribute to the debate. I really believe that we all need to be here to participate in the debate. Let us avoid the long monologues that are sometimes held here, and let us give the whole room for debate. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – The Chair of the Law Committee also applauds]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports the motion for a resolution and will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. By the way, I talked less than two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u42	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u43	Why vote on this motion of rejection, brilliantly defended by David Habib on behalf of our Socialist and related group? As our colleague has pointed out, there is a problem of timing: it is imperative that a reform should have been considered before the amendment of the regulation, that of the Constitution, which deals with the balance between the rights of Parliament, which we all defend here, and those of the government! As is now known, 85 per cent of the legislation is of governmental origin, compared with only 15 per cent of parliamentary origin, and the government has control of almost the entire agenda. On the other hand, the monitoring sessions, of which the proposal for a reform of the regulation does not say a word, are problematic: the ministers engage in long monologues without ever answering the questions of the Members! It's a long way from real control sessions. It is therefore important that the reform of the Constitution takes place before that of the regulation. Unlike the text proposed in 2014 by Claude Bartolone, whose rapporteur Jean-Jacques Urvoas had been, he is not consensual: it is not a rallying text. Of course, your proposal includes some progress, about night sittings for example, or about the settlement law and its articulation with the original finance law – François Cornut-Gentille and I have been defending the proposed measure for a long time. However, in 2014, we also made significant progress in evaluation and monitoring. I am thinking in particular of the appointment of a counter-rapporteur on impact studies or the possible evaluation, three years after its entry into force, of the effects of a law in everyday life. Today, it must be noted that consensus does not exist around the proposed text, which will, David Habib said, contain the words not only of the members of the opposition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u44	You want to gag us!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u45	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u46	Not you, Mr. Lurton!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u47	...but of all the Members. The general philosophy is to reduce the time for discussion of texts in the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u48	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u49	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] ...maybe so that they can be adopted more quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u50	Let us be perfectly objective. Check out the summary of the 2014 debates and you will find that the oppositions of the time had voted against President Bartolone's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u51	You're in a good position to know, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u52	For my part, I voted in favour. It might as well be accurate to mention things.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u53	I won't talk about group discipline...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u54	I'm just talking about the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u55	There was consensus in the Bureau of the Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u56	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u57	The La France insoumée group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. You know, of course, the vigorous criticism we are making of our institutions. In order to restore confidence between our citizens and elected officials, it would be necessary to carry out a constitutional and institutional reform that would give new rights. In this respect, the reform of the regulation is, let me say, below the hand, in relation to the deep expectation that exists in our country. What are our criticisms? I go to the main point: it seems to me that the quality of a democracy and the strength of a majority power are judged on the rights they give to minorities. However, we note that the reform of the Rules of Procedure that you are proposing tends to limit these rights, by reducing the scope of the points of order and the number of suspensions of sittings – both of which have played an important role, I would remind you, in a case which had been of great interest to the French, namely the Benalla case – by abolishing the motion for referral to committee, reducing the time allowed to the speaker who defends the motion for rejection, restricting speaking time in public sittings, etc. In these circumstances, you will understand, we cannot be satisfied with the amendment you are proposing and we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. This reform will not solve the difficulties we face; It will not allow us to renew the necessary trust between our fellow citizens and those who have the honour of being representatives of the people, who remain the sovereign.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u58	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the LaREM and MODEM groups, it is not because we are going to vote on the motion for referral back to committee, as I am about to do, that we are in favour of the status quo. We have said this and said it again in our discussions with the President: we are all convinced here that we need to evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u60	So let's talk and make amends!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u61	But the proposals before us are not appropriate, they have been very well outlined. For my part, I have noted three points which justify referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u62	This is a rejection motion!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u63	Yes: pre-rejection. First, the reform is not timely as it will take place before a constitutional reform is already under way. It is quite obvious that the amendment of our Rules of Procedure should take place after that.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u64	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u65	I think there is no doubt about that. We're in a framed perimeter. Secondly, the unconstitutional nature of the text seems to me to be proven, because it actually tends to limit the expression of Members, particularly within each group. It would thus create an imperative form of mandate, which is absolutely unconstitutional. In a group, there are different sensitivities. That is the case in the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, which I chair. While it may be considered that the speech of the eleven Communist Members is relatively unified, the group also includes overseas Members who have a different sensitivity, have a separate word and do not necessarily analyse the legislation in the same way as their colleagues. In the end, your reform will force them to enter into a common framework. [[Laurence Dumont and Régis Juanico applaud]] Third, you haven't identified any malfunctions. You are evacuating the question of the Government. You have, Mr President, a kind of fixed idea, which is to reduce speaking time. Jacques Prévert said: "He followed his idea. It was a fixed idea, and he was surprised not to move forward. I think it is your fixed idea that is the source of our blockages.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u66	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u67	We all agree here, I believe, that we need to improve our functioning in order to strengthen the role of Parliament and to give a better picture of our debates, our work and our institution. There is also a need to modernize parliamentary life. To that end, it is essential to consolidate representative democracy, at a time when a crisis of confidence strikes our country. [[Bruno Questel and Élodie Jacquier-Laforge applaud]] I agree with some of the arguments put forward by David Habib, concerning the suspension of sittings, the speaking time during the general discussion, and even the timetable. Nevertheless, we can welcome the method that has been used to work with all parliamentary groups. I believe that we can achieve the widest possible consensus in the debate at the meeting by improving the motion for a resolution before us. That's what we need to talk about. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will not associate itself with those who will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u68	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u69	Incorrect statements made against a Speaker of the National Assembly alone would justify the rejection of the motion. By lowering one of its presidents, the Assembly itself is being reduced, and little contribution is being made to the serenity of the debates in this House. Without entering into controversy, I would like to repeat three points in the speech of the speaker who defended the motion for rejection, which will lead us not to adopt it. First of all, Mr Habib, you felt that any measures that did not reach consensus should be removed from the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u70	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u71	In this case, all the measures of Mr Bartolone's second reform should have been refused, since they had not reached consensus, at the time, on the benches of the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u72	They had abstained!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u73	Similarly, some measures considered as progress by the opposition do not reach consensus on the benches of the majority. However, should they be withdrawn from this proposal for reform of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure? I'm asking you the question. Secondly, you mentioned the constitutional review. It was true that amendments which had little place in our parliamentary debate should be declared inadmissible, either because the corresponding provisions were in the regulatory sphere and the Government could adopt them itself, or because the Constitutional Council would have censored them. Since we have not been able to adopt these measures in the context of the revision of the Constitution, because you have opposed it, let us introduce them directly into the Rules of the National Assembly! Let us ourselves make our work more productive. The same applies to measures relating to the follow-up of orders, the vote in committee or the time reserved for evaluation: let us do in the National Assembly the work that can be done there without requiring a constitutional review, of which we know the difficulties – you too were able to measure them, during our debates here. Finally, can we accept, in the 21st century, that not all democracy takes place in Parliament? Your answer is no; Mine is yes. We are in a complex system, which you have described: there are multiple majorities, and we also spend time debating outside Parliament, which we must accept. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] For these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u74	I have received a motion from Mr Christian Jacob and members of the Republican Group to refer the matter back to committee pursuant to Rule 91(6) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u75	Unlike usual, we are now among ourselves, outside the presence of the Government. And I am already warning my colleagues that there will be no second reading! By definition, everything we say here remains here and concerns this beautiful house. We are meeting to discuss a reform of the regulation. I understand very well that the general public is not passionate about the debates that we are starting today, on a Monday afternoon, in the wake of European elections, the results of which are variedly commented on and appreciated – everyone will be able to smile or panic on the various benches; We will also see what all this will give in the new assembly, as soon as both have been definitively appointed. While the public's interest in the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure and its amendments may be very modest, we are going to touch an essential room, and we must do so with a shaking hand. It is this rule of procedure that allows the majority as well as the opposition to "make the law", to use the term now consecrated. We are here in the factory of the law, and it is important that this work be done as best as possible, by taking into account the load and discharge elements, the strengths and weaknesses of each provision. The debate necessarily brings together a majority and oppositions, each of which derive their legitimacy from direct universal suffrage – which is not nothing, under the Fifth Republic, as on a more general level. It was the legitimacy conferred by the people that brought us here. Each of us has a share of the legitimacy of the nation. I insist, because it would not be a question of a part of the nation being deprived of its right of expression. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] [[Smile]] We therefore come together to examine the reform of the regulation, which has been growing for many months. It is a construction site that was opened at the beginning of the legislature and continued under the chairmanship of Mr. Richard Ferrand. I greet President Ferrand, who occupies his observation post, behind me, at the perch... and who, I hope – since you mention this possibility, Mrs Untermaier – will not take advantage of it to knock me down. Blague aside, I have no doubt of his good intentions and do not bring him any trial of intent – we are fortunately not there. If President Ferrand has reached out to us and shows the will to reach a text, if not a compromise, which is at least likely to be widely shared, if the rapporteur, Sylvain Waserman – whose efforts and contributions I welcome – has also shown openness to us, in good faith and with sincerity, let us say right away, at this stage, the account is not there. Indeed, the timetable itself is already a little dubious. I have in mind what is called – probably a little "old world" – the hierarchy of the rules of law. It seemed to me that in a republic – in the sense of res publica, but it also applies to the political regime of the Fifth Republic – the Constitution, this charter of the nation, was the whole of our right; It also seemed to me that, from the Constitution, there were a number of organic laws, which are intended to apply in detail the provisions of the Basic Law; Parliamentary work, on the other hand, is governed by the rules of procedure of each assembly, which is, in principle, the culmination of these rules. However, we are stuck between an interrupted constitutional revision and a hypothetical revision to come. At this stage, no text has been tabled before the Council of Ministers, and no text is sure to be debated in our Assembly, submitted to Congress or, possibly, the ultimate way, to the referendum. I therefore believe that the timetable for revising the regulation is specious. I do not see why we should absolutely change it now. Moreover, contrary to what some claim, he is not covered with any infamy. The current regulation contains, in my view, all the elements that allow, with a little skill, to manage all situations. We were told – probably related to the July episodes – that we had used and abused sitting suspensions and point-of-law reminders. However, in the current Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the sitting can perfectly limit these interventions. Session suspensions may take place on site, ranging from 30 seconds to several minutes or even several hours. A skilful use of sitting suspensions – which would have led us, for an hour or two, in the House, to alternate sitting and standing positions – would probably have calmed down a few ardours, without the need to amend the Rules of Procedure. Many have tried to denounce legislative inflation, which would result from the settlement. I would remind you that if, as is commonly said, "the law is chatty", it does not date back to the last few years. The inflation of the number of amendments which is denounced – and which is, for one thing, real – does not date from the last rain. It is only to remember the "amendment wall" presented by President Debré before the discussion of the text that led to the privatisation of Gaz de France; There were 137,000 amendments. The 1991 public report of the Conseil d'État referred, excuse me for a little, to the "legislative and regulatory logorhee" – so the problem does not date back to the past – and added that "when the right chats, the citizen lends him only one distracted ear. I could also quote President Mazeaud who, in 2006, once again referred to the "talking law." However, since then, several amendments to our regulation have taken place, following, it is true, revisions to the Constitution – for example, the 2009 reform was a follow-up to the 2008 revision. In 2014, the amendment of the Regulation took place in a different context: a number of disputed points had been withdrawn. We are told that the law is talkative, that parliamentarians are too distracted and that we need to reduce speaking times and limit procedures. I would remind you that if there is legislative inflation and, consequently, longer speaking times and more amendments, it is above all because the number of pieces of legislation has increased dramatically, which no one can dispute.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u77	Moreover, the present majority, I say in all sincerity, is not entirely responsible for it and is not, of course, the only one responsible for it. However, as was pointed out earlier, the number of pages in the Official Journal continues to increase. Last week's review of 2018 shows this again: there is a legislative package and, consequently, an increase in speaking time and an increase in the number of amendments tabled. But who's the most at fault? The one who adapts to the number of texts presented to him or the one who tables an increasing number of texts – sometimes, indeed, very talkative? The answer is found in the 85 per cent of adopted texts of governmental origin, which do not therefore come from national representation. We are well placed to know this, we who see the niches of Thursday's parliamentarians shipped through various and varied motions. In these circumstances, should we review our rules of procedure? Despite the timetable, which I do not think is appropriate, despite this talkative law – for reasons that are not just for Parliament and, in particular, for the Assembly – I believe that the Rules of Procedure need to be reviewed. The majority announced four objectives to modernize the National Assembly. The first is to "improve the legislative procedure and, in particular, the public debate": who could oppose this programme? The second objective is to "deepen the rights of opposition and minority groups, in particular, but not exclusively, in the exercise of the supervisory function": who could properly oppose it? No one, of course. The third objective is "to better involve citizens in parliamentary work": how can we not subscribe to it? Finally, it is a question of giving new impetus to parliamentary ethics, which is also a consensus. I would be inclined to "sign," like every member of our assembly, the majority as well as the opposition, with the aim of doing a useful work. I sincerely believe that we can do useful work. However, at this stage, the account is not there. While progress can be noted, a number of red rags remain, which in our view are as many possibilities, when added together, to muzzle the opposition or, at the very least, to reduce its speaking time in a very substantial way, to make it almost inaudible. Let's go back to what can be accepted. We do not object to certain provisions, which are in the right direction – that of fluidising parliamentary work. We collectively have the task of being clear, of voting the law, of doing so in the best possible conditions, in a time that must not be a cutet either – in short, we must work with clarity and sincerity; No one can object to that. In this context, the new procedure of legislation in committee seems to us to be in the right direction, for all or some of the so-called technical texts. We have had some examples in recent weeks; I am thinking in particular of an interesting text on firefighters, which has received our unanimous agreement, without any objection. In doing so, we have paid tribute to those men and women who work tirelessly for the safety of our fellow citizens. This text could, without any difficulty, be adopted in committee, without the need to meet in plenary session. I now turn to the reform of the referral for an opinion, which is to refocus the role of the draftsman of the opinion ahead of the public sitting, and perhaps to limit his speaking time somewhat. If I am, in my personal capacity, a little reserved for this proposal, I accept it on behalf of my group, but also because I believe that we need to open doors. We may be able to do better in this way – in any case it will be done differently – except in budgetary matters, where the regulation would not change. I am not overly shocked by the possibility of limiting, in a number of cases – when properly proposed – the right of amendment, by applying Articles 41 and 45 of the Constitution, provided that this is done in a fair manner and, of course, in accordance with the fundamental law and the right of amendment of parliamentarians – which must remain a real right. In any case, this chapter head alone does not, in our view, constitute a red cloth. The deletion of explanations of vote on the articles is also not a revolution and would save us time. When we have already met a few dozen hours on a particular subject, which has been discussed in detail, or on a text as a whole, everyone will be well informed and fully aware of what to do. Finally, I am no doubt one of the last users of the procedure that is worth speaking to you right now, with a time of speech which, I do not doubt for a moment, seems to you long – I would almost ask you to apologise for it. A few more minutes, Mr. executioner! The limitation of the defence of procedural motions to ten minutes – even if we would have preferred fifteen – is an element that can also be agreed and will not lead to a palace revolution. That being said, other issues call for very strong reservations, which could almost lead to support for a motion of prior rejection, and not just a motion to refer to committee. I want to believe, however, in the richness of dialogue, in the possibility, perhaps, in the next few hours, of getting along, not for the purpose of collusion between oppositions and the majority, but to reach an agreement in the interest of our home. The National Assembly is an institution that we particularly care about; It is the house of the people, and when the people, in their diversity, are able to dialogue, to listen to each other, I believe that the Republic wins. Yes, really, everything that unites us grows. I have no doubt, beyond the vicissitudes of the last few hours, and the uncertainty as to what will happen, to say in the next few hours, that men and women of good will can still agree. The red rags have to pass, if I can afford this image, to the green. The limitation to one speaker per group, and for five minutes, in the general discussion, does not seem acceptable to us. First of all, five minutes is extremely short to plant the decor of a text – each one will agree. If some texts do not raise any particular problems – you will allow me to take the example, very illustrative, of the partial reform of the status of firefighters and the departmental fire and rescue services – not all texts are as consensual. When we talk about the reform of pensions, the reform of employment, the revision of the Constitution and so many other texts, five minutes, it will be very brief to set the scene! If, moreover, this period is allocated on a flat-rate basis, regardless of the size of the group, this provision seems completely inconceivable to me. A group of more than one hundred deputies like the Republicans today would have five minutes, like the group of La France insoumé, which I do not disdain, that is not the subject, or the Democratic and Republican Left, President Chassaigne will not blame me for taking this example. Come on, five minutes, move, there's nothing to see! That's not satisfactory. Worse still, only one speaker per group will be able to speak on the rules. This small general discussion of the articles was interesting because it allowed many colleagues, not just from the opposition but also from the majority, to make a small voice, sometimes different. So what? Unity does not necessarily command to erase diversity. To foresee that only one speaker per group can defend identical amendments is a provision which we reject even more strongly. That's the chopper! Several Members of the same group may wish to delete an article for different reasons; However, several Members of Parliament who want to delete an article necessarily draft the same amendment, even though the summary statement differs. This does not seem possible to us: the right of amendment is attached to the parliamentarian, to the Member, who holds his legitimacy of the nation. This legitimacy is not divided, it is not watered. It cannot be limited to the tabling of the amendment alone, it cannot be merely formal: it is not possible for a Member to be unable to defend his amendment! A Member of Parliament has the right to defend his amendment in writing and orally. The right of amendment is personal, inalienable, and I would say almost sacred. He is a consubstantial member of Parliament, a Member of Parliament. [[Mr. André Chassaigne exclaimed]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] This would reduce the member to a group. Of course, I defend the existence of the groups; I even find that some groups have sometimes created themselves a little easily. President Chassaigne, like others, will not agree with me on this point, but let's move on! The parliamentarian is not limited to the group to which he belongs, and must be able to express himself with clarity and sincerity in a debate that must be contradictory. By removing the possibility of expression, the debate is no longer contradictory. This is a clear violation of the Constitution and of principles of constitutional value. This is in a way disregarding article 27 of our fundamental law, which states that "any imperative mandate is void". To want to lock up the parliamentarian in his membership of a group is to deny his singularity and individuality. It's a form of corporalization. There is no guardianship or subordination for a parliamentarian! The nation is all or nothing! But we are his representatives! What about the limitation of the number of suspensions of sittings or reminders to the Rules of Procedure? This may seem secondary: it will be said that such a measure will allow the debate to proceed unhindered once two suspensions have been granted. First of all, the majority also needs to suspend the sitting from time to time. I would not like to confront you with reminding you of the dreads of digestion, but at fifteen o'clock or, more often, at twenty-one o'clock thirty, we sometimes have to suspend because the benches of the majority are sparse. I don't throw the stone at you, it happened to us at other times. Chairs, ministers or rapporteurs sometimes need to take a technical break, go smoke a cigarette or make a phone call. With this measure, we'll all be stuck! I say it in a sad tone, but in a deeper way, sometimes there is a need for a suspension to explain an agreement or a provision of the text under discussion. We could no longer do this unless the chairman agreed to it. I have no doubt that the Presidency can do much or that it is impartial – in any case, I would like to do so and does not, of course, aim at the current Presidency in the Chamber – but we must generally avoid working with the stick and a sword of Damocles suspended above our heads, the purpose of which is to limit Parliament's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u78	You're exaggerating a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u79	Perhaps we will succeed in working in good intelligence! I sincerely hope so. That has been said, we often measure the vitality of a democracy to the rights of the opposition. This is obviously not the only criterion, and I am not asking for the institutionalization of a shadow cabinet – or phantom cabinet – as in the United Kingdom, where its existence is consecrated, without text since there is no written constitution. I also do not claim recognition by the Constitution of Staaten Organen – or state bodies – as in Germany, because political parties contributing to the expression of suffrage in France, political groups find themselves in a somewhat weaker position. But still! The rights of the opposition are sacred. Some presidents of the Republic have cared about this: think of this exceptional reform, initiated by Valéry Giscard d'Estaing in 1974 and of which we only measured the extent later, opening the possibility for sixty deputies or sixty senators to refer the matter to the Constitutional Council. This is a step forward for the opposition! Another reform, which did not come to our attention in 2008, is the introduction of the priority issue of constitutionality. The QPC is moving us away from the Chamber, but it has allowed our fellow citizens, in addition to parliamentarians, presidents of the assemblies, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, to refer the matter to the Constitutional Council, obviously after the passage of a few filters. I do not claim such progress in the reform of the Rules of Procedure, since they fall within the scope of the Constitution. However, we are not obliged to saw the branch on which democracy is based. Diversity is complicated to manage, and yes, it sometimes leads to some burning. We have all experienced it here. This adds a little time to the time: some said that time had to be given. I am not sure that the law needs to give time, but a few extra hours in a legislative work that sometimes lasts for a long time, what is it? Especially since texts are often pending due to the absence of implementing decrees. Of course, all this has improved, but it is the work of the parliamentarian that is at stake today, as well as the opportunity for the opposition to express itself, to be heard and to represent the diversity of opinions. It is not a question of denying the majority fact, because we are defending the Fifth Republic, its balance, which is certainly complex and moving. We are ready to reach out, but some need to seize it. The rapporteur Sylvain Waserman, Vice-President of this House, is used to chair and uses the Rules of Procedure wisely; He tells us that he wants to make certain requests come to fruition. I am grateful to him and I am happy to give him a patent of good faith and good will. But he is not alone, and we are, at this point, far enough from the point of view. That is why I think it would be necessary to refer the text back to committee for further consideration. Not to forget it, because there is no dispute about the need to improve parliamentary work, to fluidize it, to make it more accessible and to speed up certain procedures. But let's not act against each other! Even in an association, a qualified majority of the members must approve the rules of procedure. There is no question here of a qualified majority, but we are all qualified to participate in this majority and to achieve, together, in the interests of the law, therefore in the interests of our fellow citizens and of democratic debate, an agreement. I hope that the voices of each other will be audible and that the hearing of each other will be sufficiently sharpened. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and GDR groups]] This is the ambition of the Republican Group. Beyond events and contingent elements, we want to work with dignity and sincerity in the last three years of this legislature. For this to happen, everyone, in the diversity of opinions of everyone, must be able to express themselves in this forum.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u80	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u81	Mr Gosselin, thank you for your agreement and your disagreement with the text. They are consistent with the positions that you defended during the discussions in committee. I look forward to discussing this and to giving an opinion against the motion to refer it back to committee, so that we can fully consider the motion for a resolution in the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u82	The Chair of the Law Committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u83	We are responsible parliamentarians and must seize the opportunity offered by the Assembly's Rules of Procedure to organise part of our work ourselves. We do not depend solely on the Constitution. The regulation has been reformed thirty-four times, let us not be afraid of the thirty-fifth! We're here to discuss it. I am committed to the hierarchy of norms, but not everything is constitutional. We need to discuss in committee and in the Chamber the matters relating to the Rules of Procedure. We spent more than 14 hours debating in committee: some of you were present, including President Chassaigne and President Le Fur. They can attest, as David Habib did, to the very constructive nature of our discussions. We all listened. The word has never been denied to anyone. We took the time to discuss each and every provision of the reform. In this House, there is the time for the committee, and then the time for the hemicycle. Not everything should be closed before the public meeting. The time for this House is also that of possible rapprochements and constructive exchanges.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u84	It's all right then, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u85	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I therefore do not see why the text should go back to committee. The discussions have been fruitful, but the time for this House has come. Let's talk, debate, exchange and vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u86	Shit! Accept our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u87	On the motion for referral to committee, I have a request for a public vote before the Republicans. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. We come to the explanations of vote. Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u88	We will vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee, which Philippe Gosselin has excellently defended. Why? A regulation can evolve, it is nothing illegitimate. But what idea do we have of our role, of our institution and of representative democracy? That is the issue underlying this reform. We would have to answer that unanimously. I hope we have a great idea of our role and representative democracy. We must have the means to express ourselves and to debate. Of course, excesses may occur, but the Government has a very simple way to prevent them from pushing the parliamentary calendar: the scheduled legislative time. All this is possible. All this was organised by the reform of the regulation adopted in 2009, following the constitutional revision of 23 July 2008. The fear that too much debate will delay things can perfectly be combated. In addition, we set several very precise red lines. Mr President of the National Assembly, the time devoted to the general discussion can be reduced. In itself, it does not shock us. However, the allocation of a five-minute speaking time to each group – including the largest opposition group – does not suit us. I will insist more on the discussion of the articles prior to the discussion of the amendments. It exists today; She'd be banned tomorrow. However, it provides an opportunity to set out the terms of the debate on the article, and makes it possible to discuss the amendments more calmly. It is essential to keep this breath. Finally, giving only one representative per group the opportunity to speak places Members in the dependency of their respective groups. We belong to groups and we live there happily, but we are primarily responsible to the people, in our constituencies as well as at the national level. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] These are the reasons why the Republican Group will enthusiastically vote on the motion to refer the matter back to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u89	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u90	The exchanges in committee were lively, but instructive. Each political group has been able to express its position on this motion for a resolution, and it is important to recall that it has been the subject of concerted action. In particular, this work has led to numerous meetings of group chairmen. It has made it possible to strike a balance between optimising parliamentary time and guaranteeing the right of Members to express themselves. Some may deplore this balance and judge it imperfect. We are meeting in this Chamber to discuss it, and I hope that the text will evolve, particularly on certain points. Referring him to committee would not bring any added value to the work of the Law Committee, where we had quality exchanges. The balances adopted or retained in committee, for the most part, seem to us to be in line with the need to reform the functioning of our Assembly. Sending the text back to committee would, given the work we have done, be a waste of time, which is precisely to avoid, not only to improve the functioning of our assembly, but also to show our fellow citizens that we are attentive to their expectations on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte also applauds]] That is why the MODEM and related groups will vote against the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u91	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u92	The Socialist and Related Group will vote on the motion for referral to committee on two grounds, one formal and the other substantive. On the form, our objection concerns the timetable for the entry into force of the system, which seems to us to be contrary to the hierarchy of standards. We are not opposed to a reform of the Assembly's Rules of Procedure. However, a constitutional revision is announced for the month of September next. It would therefore have been a good operation, I believe, to wait for it to be adopted, and then to adapt our regulation, which is nothing more than the framework for the functioning of our Parliament. In this connection, I will quote Jean-Jacques Urvoas, who was the rapporteur for the reform of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure that took place in 2014: "It quickly became clear that the political conditions for a constitutional review, which would have initiated fundamental changes in our functioning, were not met. We therefore focused on the most consensual measures, and above all those that could be taken with a constant Constitution." What is being proposed to us today is not at all part of such an approach. Further reading Mr Urvoas' report, we learn that his proposals are "limited to points of convergence". This brings me to my second observation, on the substance. The motion for a resolution is based on very interesting comments, to which I fully subscribe. However, there are still significant differences. We have to work on it. I doubt that a single reading in a public session is enough to bridge the gap between the groups. Finally, I shall express a regret. The text lacks a reflection – which has not been initiated in the law commission – on the manufacture of the law. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] We are not necessarily in favour of the passage of the law more quickly, we are in favour of the law being better.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u93	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u94	The UDI-Agir Group will vote against the motion for referral, for a simple reason: we want to debate. Madam chairman of the committee, you recalled that we debated in committee for 14 hours. One flat, however: only one opposition amendment was adopted – in fourteen hours of debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u95	Coming from the group La France insoumise!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u96	And again, he was under-amended by the rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u97	The opening has its limits!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u98	So you will understand that we really want to debate. This is an important reform, dealing with many issues. President Lagarde participated in the proceedings. We are well aware that many of our proposals have been accepted. However, a few more steps are needed. I would like to recall – after having done so in committee – that if the motion for a resolution is adopted by the majority groups alone, it will miss something. We are entering this debate with a constructive spirit, but several points seem important to us, including the reduction of interventions in general discussion to five minutes per group and the strengthening of the role of minority and opposition groups in the work of committees of inquiry, as well as in the context of parliamentary niches. For the time being, we want to debate. We are starting the debate with a constructive spirit. We will vote against the motion for referral to committee. However, we really want to debate. We hope that the time devoted to the debate will make it possible to improve the text, in order to make our work both more effective and more representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u99	Words of gold!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u100	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u101	This motion for a resolution leads – as our colleague Alexis Corbière pointed out in committee – towards a technocratisation of Parliament. The amendments with positive points are, however, too timid in terms of democracy, the rights of opposition groups and the reform of parliamentary ethics. In this regard, the deletion – provided for in Article 14 of the text – of the reference to interference between public interests is problematic. Above all, there are many shortcomings in the motion for a resolution. She is not interested in real opposition rights issues. There is no provision to guarantee genuine impartiality of treatment or an appeal against the arbitrary review of the admissibility of amendments. There is no provision on the law of parliamentary collaborators. There is no protection for Assembly officials and Members against discrimination of any kind. The Assembly's ecological example is not mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you want to narrow down the scope of the opposition, we want to extend it. Finally, you want to reduce Parliament's power, we want to increase it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote on the motion to refer it back to committee, in order to try to achieve our objective of a strengthened democracy in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u102	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u103	I will justify the vote in favour of referring the text back to the committee of the two components of our group by addressing first of all the rapporteur, Sylvain Waserman – not without welcoming the quality of our dialogue, which is always respectful. The rapporteur, remember what Montesquieu said: "It is only necessary to legislate with a trembling hand" – a formula that was widely repeated later, notably by Portalis, who was one of the editors of the civil code. My question is: Do you think that this reform will make it possible to legislate with a trembling hand? Doesn't she start a mechanic that will oppose it? The second person I will address is the President of the National Assembly. He also gives daily proof of his respect for our institution and its components. Mr President, I very much appreciated the speech you gave at the inauguration of the commemorative plaques of Jaurès and Clemenceau, great figures in our Chamber, which gave political life meaning, perspective and height, and breath to our democracy. We could also mention, in another place, the beautiful pages of the speeches delivered by Victor Hugo in the Senate. My question is: Do you really think that if the motion for a resolution is adopted tomorrow, and if the Assembly's Rules of Procedure are amended as you propose, we can cite speeches that – without being up to those of Jaurès and Clemenceau – make sense? At the opening that I mentioned at the moment, you said: "Jaurès and Clemenceau, on this day, are back among us. In fact, they have never left the Chamber: their minds are hovering daily over our debates and, every time we launch an idea here, whenever we affirm a principle, let us know how to hear them." [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] With the adoption of the new regulation, great speeches like theirs will no longer be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u105	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u106	I would like to say this from the outset: the reform of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure is a necessity. The very deep crisis of confidence that our country has been going through for several months is a stark reminder of this. It is therefore essential to demonstrate the usefulness of our work and, if possible, to rehabilitate our institution. Thus, the issue of reforming our Rules of Procedure is not only internal. It is also a question of providing a first response to the crisis of confidence that is affecting the institutions, ours in the first place. The debate in committee took place. It has brought out points of convergence, within the framework of a balance, as well as the need for a spirit of listening, dialogue and responsibility. We have made progress together on a number of issues, such as the single weekly meeting on topical issues in the Government. Moreover, such developments should not weaken the capacity of minority and opposition groups to control the Government's actions. Differences have also emerged. They cover major issues, including the number of Members required to form a parliamentary group, the reduction of the number of sitting suspensions and the reduction of the speaking time devoted to the general discussion. Our role is to debate and move forward, and if possible to amend. In this respect, we hope that our amendments will receive a little more favourable than usual. It is a question of putting in the long term this matrix of our parliamentary life, which is the regulation of our Assembly. We do not see the point of resuming the debates we have had in committee. The Liberties and Territories Group will not support the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u107	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u108	By listening to our colleague Gosselin – of whom I know he is an honest man – I measured his difficulty in justifying the referral of the text to committee – because the words make sense! Moreover, he has perfectly described the process that you have initiated, Mr.President of the National Assembly, in order to achieve – as far as possible – a shared understanding and consensus on this text. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u109	We're a long way from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u110	Dear colleague, you have reminded us, with great honesty, of the progress made. Our debate has gone very far. Therefore, the reference of the text to the committee does not make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u111	Yes, because he's missing the essentials!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u112	If we are to reach consensus and share our views, it will be in open session. This is desirable, and I hope that everyone here will be committed to working on it. In addition to these considerations, I would like to reiterate the need for us to be effective in our parliamentary work. Our debates are not necessarily very understandable to those who are attending this afternoon. What we are doing here is fundamental, because the making of the law, its examination in a debate and its vote are taking place here. We have made a choice, which is a great revolution. From now on, we will promote the work in committee, because most of the debate is taking place. Repetitions in public sittings should be avoided, in order to make our work more effective and comprehensible to our citizens. The crisis of confidence, referred to at the moment by Mr Castellani, feeds on the spectacle of an empty Chamber and of procedures which are difficult to understand or even absconses. The text contains some important advances, particularly in the area of opposition rights, whatever is said of them. In this case, it is the majority group that will bear the costs of the reform! This is a necessary balance. We're going to have a debate. I hope that it will help to reach the consensus we are seeking. There is a common rule that we must accept. We will not achieve this by referring the text back to committee, which the majority group will not vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u113	I put to the vote the motion for referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u114	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 25 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u115	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u116	The text we are considering today is not, contrary to what some might believe, a mere technical text internal to this House. It is actually a text that must govern the daily exercise of democracy in our country. Indeed, after the legislative election and the determination of the weight of the majority and the political weight of the oppositions, it is our regulation which determines the possibilities of expression of each other and their ability to propose, and which creates – or does not – the conditions for a calm debate. While the text before us contains a number of interesting advances, which we will support, other provisions seem to us to be dangerous for the functioning of our representative democracy. The provisions which seem to me to affect the functioning of democracy are essentially those which tend to limit the individual right of expression of Members, as well as their right of amendment. We have all heard the President of the Republic, who has never been a parliamentarian, complain about the length of legislative time that would be too long, and the parliamentary assemblies that would appear to him to be preventing him from governing peacefully. But we must remember that the Fifth Republic is a parliamentary system, and that we must avoid that, by misguided practices or means such as the rules of the assemblies themselves, we are no longer drifting a little further towards a presidential regime that does not mean its name. Jean-Louis Debré, when he was President of the National Assembly, had replied to me, when I was a very young Member of Parliament and complained about the duration of a debate where the opposition of the time deployed treasures of ingenuity to make parliamentary obstruction, which Parliament was made to parliament! He was not completely wrong, as long as the debates remained within reasonable time limits, and everyone could express their difference, their opinion. Do not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: if you think you are saving time by drastically limiting the expression in the House, you will lose much more when the debate, which could not have been held here, takes place on the street, with its procession of violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u117	Is that a threat?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u118	You've already had a glimpse of it not so long ago... I don't think it's appropriate for anyone to turn the wick back on, if it's actually gone. In addition, in order for Parliament to play its full role, every Member must be able to assume the full range of his or her duties. Indeed, elected by direct universal suffrage, he is elected individually, on his name, and, if he joins a group, it is because this possibility is given to him by Article 19 of our current Rules of Procedure: "Members can group themselves by political affinities". But who says political affinities does not say uniformity of positions on the texts that are submitted to us! Everyone retains his or her freedom to speak and vote. This principle is also enshrined in the Constitution, which states that "any mandatory mandate shall be null and void". It would therefore be contrary to this constitutional principle to limit Members' words too much in favour of the expression of a single representative from each group, as the draft text before us would like. I understand that these provisions tend to limit the risk of parliamentary obstruction by untimely statements, but the tools to prevent this type of risk have already been incorporated into our Rules of Procedure on 27 May 2009, under Nicolas Sarkozy: it has in particular introduced the scheduled legislative time, which you have used very little since the beginning of this Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, be careful not to make this House a mere chamber of recording government texts! If there is a majority logic that is understandable and necessary for government stability, we must not take the risk of becoming a croupion parliament! We had succeeded, under Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium, in this subtle balance between support for the Government, by the majority of the time, and parliamentary autonomy, by organizing what we had called "legislative co-production". Without wishing to offend you, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this balance is still to be found for the present majority. In conclusion, I would like to make a brief reference to the rights of the opposition: they are contained in our current regulation, and remain in the draft before us, but they are undermined by practice. Indeed, there is no point in giving the opposition specific rights, if groups can declare themselves to be opposed, in our assembly, while in fact being groups of the disguised majority. One question is whether a group whose president has joined the Government and who represents a political party whose members have stood on the list of the majority in the European elections can still claim opposition. This situation could turn out to be scandalous, if this claim to the status of opponent was in fact merely a pretext, for the members of the group, to artificially reduce the speaking time of the real oppositions in our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u119	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u120	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Unfortunately, the text before us offers no solution to this type of situation which, as you have understood, is in no way a school hypothesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u121	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u122	Whether we have been a Member of Parliament for one or more terms, regardless of where we sit in the Chamber, we all know that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are the metronome of the life of our institution. It is very much around this text that our parliamentary work is organised. It is also according to this text that we shape the law, under the watchful eye of the Constitutional Council. Finally, it is this text that largely determines the perception of our work as legislators by the French and French. After the profound reform of our rules in the wake of the constitutional reform of 2008, and after the reform of 2014 initiated by Claude Bartolone, we will in turn add a stone to the building of parliamentary law. We must do so in a spirit of responsibility, always concerned with greater efficiency in the service of our fellow citizens, with parliamentary work in hand and in line with the reality of the territories in which they live. For, ladies and gentlemen, we are not mistaken: behind the reform of our Rules of Procedure, the challenge is indeed to provide a first response to the crisis of confidence in our institutions, and in particular in the House. The Libertés et Territoires Group therefore hopes that this reform will enable the French to recognize themselves more in the work of our Assembly. To that end, it must strike a better balance between the rights of the majority and those of the opposition, minority groups and non-attached Members, who must not be forgotten. They are not sub-deputies, but representatives of the nation, democratically elected by the voters of their constituencies. In considering this motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, we must have as our objective the constant search for a balance that is respectful of everyone and, if possible, achieve the widest possible consensus, because a reform of the regulation necessarily takes place over a long period of time. It must have a permanent value, which does not change according to political alternations. Each of us knows that today's majority can be tomorrow's opposition, and that its members can soon be members of a minority group, or even non-registrants. We must place the cursor in the right place, between the rights of the majority, which come from its strong representativeness, and the new rights of the opposition, minority groups and non-attached Members. The pluralism guaranteed by article 4 of our Constitution must be able to express itself fully in the National Assembly. The credibility of our institution is at stake. In this regard, I would like to welcome the method favoured by the Speaker of the National Assembly, Richard Ferrand, who has regularly brought together parliamentary groups for six months to listen, dialogue and achieve the best possible balance. The rapporteur, Sylvain Waserman, has been able to remain faithful to this spirit by consulting widely and enriching the reform of the proposed regulation, while preserving its original spirit. We have thus been able to move forward together on the single meeting of topical issues in the Government, the establishment of which should not lead to a weakening of the capacity of minority or opposition groups to control the Government's action. Similarly, we welcome the clear commitments we have made that the thresholds for the formation of a group would not be altered by this draft resolution. These were red lines not to be crossed for several parliamentary groups, including ours. But let us be clear: what we are defending, through our position, is not the situation of the Freedom and Territory Group; it is above all pluralism, which is useful to inform the parliamentary debate, and which is vital for the proper functioning of our democracy. I can therefore only regret that our debates in committee have been marked by the bad faith of some, who seem to deny Members the possibility of forming a political group freely, even though the Constitution provides for it. To propose that twenty-nine Members be necessary to form a group, which would lead to the disappearance of several of the groups in our House, is to reject this pluralism which must prevail in our democracy, that is to deny the currents of thought in which a number of our fellow citizens find themselves. These currents of thought have sometimes been part of the political landscape for a very long time, longer than those who now intend to decide which political group has the right to form or not. Our group has no less legitimacy than the others. We hear the French who have been expressing, for several months, their need to identify themselves with elected officials who are similar to them, and whose work can be more easily valued. It is in order to meet this expectation that our Rules of Procedure must evolve. It must be more modern, with a more vibrant democracy, closer to our fellow citizens and more accessible, if our representative democracy is to be rehabilitated. This reform is therefore necessary. However, I wonder what the timetable is. For the sake of clarity of our regulation, it might indeed have been more relevant to reform it after the constitutional reform announced by the President of the Republic at the end of the great national debate. This will inevitably lead to changes in the balance between our institutions, which will necessarily affect our Assembly. In 2009, the reform of the Regulation had thus taken place after the constitutional revision. I would add that, without a real upgrading of the role of Parliament, which our group will defend in the future constitutional reform, the work we are doing on the reform of the regulation would not have the same value and meaning. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an obligation to succeed in improving the functioning of our Assembly by strengthening the rights of all. Real progress has been made in this motion for a resolution, in particular on the work of the committees of inquiry, the fact-finding missions of the Conference of Presidents and the Committee for the Evaluation and Monitoring of Public Policies. We also welcome the voluntarism of this text for greater transparency and ethics. Other developments, which are in line with the renewal of the parliamentary procedure, receive the consent of Members of our group. I am thinking in particular of the recourse, for certain texts, to the procedure of legislation in committee. We also support the framework for the possibility for Members of the same group to defend identical amendments. We are fundamentally in favour of the freedom to table amendments, but this must not lead to abusive practices. However, we found that this could have been the case, for the purpose of parliamentary obstruction. That is what unnecessarily prolongs our debates, not the expression of pluralism. We also welcome the improvement of the right to petition. The legitimacy of our institution also depends on the ability of our fellow citizens to seize a subject in our assembly, if it seems to them important that national representation consider it. We will make a number of proposals in this direction. We can imagine in what context you proposed to limit the suspension of sittings. You know, Mr rapporteur, that our group is opposed to this, as it is to the limitation of five minutes of speaking time in general discussion. On the other hand, we believe that it will be necessary to clarify the new arrangements for written contributions, in order to better frame them, in line with what has been introduced for written questions, or what exists in the European Parliament today. I hope, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, that we can move forward on the points I have just mentioned. They call for the necessary improvements in our discussions for us. Our group therefore looks forward to examining this motion for a resolution in a constructive spirit in order to preserve its spirit and further improve it. We hope that this reform of the Rules of Procedure will allow for a more modern and democratic functioning of our Assembly. We also hope that, beyond the search for efficiency, this will enable our compatriots to better understand the meaning of parliamentary work and to take more account of the issues we are discussing here. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Finally, we deeply believe that only a better balance of the rights of everyone will allow us to draw up laws closer to the reality of the territories, more effective and more responsive to the expectations of the French and French.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u123	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u124	In the aftermath of an election that highlighted how inclined our fellow citizens were to give in to the ease of protest vote, on the one hand, and to reject the parties that had presided over our country from 1958 to 2017, on the other hand, it is now up to us to begin our work to reform the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure to make our assembly closer to the realities and expectations of our fellow citizens. As many speakers have pointed out, starting with the rapporteur and the chair of the Committee on Laws, the aim of the motion for a resolution by President Richard Ferrand is to renovate the legislative procedure, to strengthen the rights of oppositions and non-attached Members, to better involve citizens in parliamentary work by renovating the right to petition, so dear to our colleague Christophe Euzet, and finally to give new impetus to parliamentary ethics as a whole. With regard to the renewal of the legislative procedure, the creation of a procedure for adoption in committee and the reduction of the procedure of referral for opinion pose a real challenge: that of being prepared to meet the aspirations of the people to see us legislate as genuine authors of the law and no longer, as some speakers seem to regret, by talking Members self-proclaiming themselves to the democratic truth on the sole ground that they pronounce it. With regard to the removal of the reference to committee, it should be noted that, with very few exceptions, the committee has never prospered since its creation. The Chair of the Law Committee recalled that we worked almost 15 hours in the Law Committee, with several of our colleagues who were not members of this committee, who were able to express their views freely. Moreover, all committee chairmen agree, and not only since this Parliament, that this motion to refer has become, over time, a tool for the posture of oppositions and nothing else. On the other hand, the planning of scheduled legislative time and the reduction of time spent on motions for prior rejection are all advances aimed at improving in substance the quality of our collective work. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Sylvia Pinel has just pointed out, we must pay tribute to Richard Ferrand, who, for six months, has been able to involve all the parliamentary groups in the drafting of this motion for a resolution; Everyone was able to feel listened to and taken into account. I want to stress that the rights of the opposition have never been strengthened as much as with the motion for a resolution that we invite you to adopt: doubling current issues, completely renovated with the creation of a right of reply; drawing rights on commissions of inquiry and fact-finding missions; increase and improve representation in the internal bodies of the Bureau of the National Assembly, the Standing Committees and the Joint Joint Committees. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, whether it is the right to petition or the strengthening of ethical measures, we intend, thanks to the President and this motion for a resolution, to renovate our procedures globally, to strengthen the oppositions – which are the salt of democracy –, to open up ourselves externally with the right to petition and to give new impetus to ethics in our institution. That is why the Group of the European People's Party supports this motion for a resolution, which will evolve as the amendments are discussed, after having already been amended in the Committee on Laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u125	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u126	In order to change our common rules of operation, the search for consensus is wise and necessary. It is the condition of a reform that can be respected for all, the majority and the opposition, whether they are yesterday, today or tomorrow. The elaboration of the rules of parliamentary law can only be conceived in the context of the requirement of democratic duty. We all share the same observation here: the way in which our assembly operates is not satisfactory. Unsatisfied because our working conditions prevent us from carrying out, in good conditions, the noble and heavy task that lies before us. Unsatisfied for those whom we represent, who feel that our work is useless, the functioning of our assembly participating in the mistrust that public opinion has of it. That is why it is essential to improve the practices of our Assembly, to reform its functioning and to modernise it, as advocated by this motion for a resolution, which we share, a priori, the objective sought. However, if we join on some of the tracks you take to achieve this, we do not share the same assessment of the perceived effectiveness of measures which, for us, will prove to be much more dangerous than beneficial. Of course, we support the proposals to give opposition groups a little more rights. I am thinking in particular of the possibility given to the Conference of Presidents to give Members of the opposition groups more questions to the Government: if this possibility were actually implemented – it is not binding – it would be a small step forward. Similarly, the provision which provides for the appointment of members of the opposition, at their choice, as president or rapporteur of committees of inquiry and fact-finding missions set up at their request, is in the right direction. This rule, which has already been applied in the Senate, will benefit the general interest and will ensure better respect for the rule of law, as demonstrated by the Benalla commission of inquiry in the Senate. There has also been considerable progress, although not decisive, in ensuring better representation of the opposition in the Assembly's bodies, in ensuring the presence of at least one alternate member for each group in the Joint Joint Committees, in entrusting the position of first Vice-President of the Assembly, as well as that of the Committee for the Evaluation and Monitoring of Public Policies, to an opposition parliamentarian, or in giving more room to non-attached Members. However, these proposals fall far short of the need to strengthen the rights of the parliamentary opposition, who alone, under the Fifth Republic, can ensure a semblance of rebalancing of powers. That is why we will make proposals for valuing these too anecdotal rights, while regretting that we are forced to make proposals only at the constant Constitution. Indeed, after the vicissitudes that the majority encountered during its first constitutional review attempt last summer, you are urging us today to reform our rules without waiting for a future yet announced constitutional bill. We are thus limited in our ability to make proposals. Indeed, some of our amendments have been declared inadmissible for this reason. Isn't this rush a double confession? Is this the admission that, in the end, you do not believe that the outcome of constitutional reform is possible? Is this the admission that, against the winds and tides, you want to include in our regulation the worst traverses imagined by this aborted reform? We find here, in fact, the two essential axes of presidential wishes in order to put Parliament even more in step: firstly, to stifle the democratic debate in this place where, more than elsewhere, the affairs of society can be debated, but also to increase the government's control over the legal function of Parliament by means of ever more delusional rationalisation techniques and unbridled majority discipline. Emmanuel Macron warned us in his program book that he wanted to end "legislative chatter" to be effective, he said. Mr President, you are satisfied with this wish, even if you say it in more elegant terms: it would be a matter of "fluidifying the debates". But whether it is to end "legislative chatter" or "fluidify", the result is the same: the majority wants to corse the debates or even put an end to them. Reduction of the time of the general discussion – the "talking" of a Jaurès or a Clemenceau would no longer be possible with your reform! – ; removal of the motion for referral to committee; Division by two of the defence time of the motion of prior rejection; limit statements on the articles to one speaker per group; deletion of explanations of vote on the articles; Reduction of reply fees on amendments following the opinion of the Government and the Commission; It is impossible for Members to defend an amendment identical to that of one of their colleagues in the same group: these are the means devised in the name of rationalisation to prevent debates in our House. The reason is that we must, at all costs, save time – a fixed idea! The French Parliament is not slow, however, and contrary to the ideas received. As President Bartolone himself said, we are on the European average in terms of the number of texts adopted and the number of sitting days. Only countries with monocameral parliaments vote the law significantly faster. Is it worth recalling that, under this pretext, all the reform of the regulation initiated since 1958 to free up more time has had the opposite effect? The number of sittings has steadily increased, and because of this: government bills and government-inspired bills are in constant inflation. In fact, we are constantly opening up time to give the Government time to drown, even more so, under its legislative logo.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u129	If this reform is adopted, the result will be the same: we will not save time. On the other hand, the consequences will be disastrous for the democratic debate. And yet, etymologically, Parliament is the place where we talk. A debate exists only if it is contradictory. This is even the raison d'être of the parliamentary institution: to allow the confrontation of divergent or antagonistic political ideas. We must remember that the state of democracy is not a natural state and that any action aimed at reducing its degradation. As Cynthia Fleury points out: "To grow, democracies must preserve their energy sources that reside in the confrontation of opposites, such as Good and Evil". Our role as legislator, under the combined effect of the regime of the Fifth Republic and the monarchy of power, is to vote the law. But today, not content to give up the power to re-approve you the power to make the law, not content to resign yourself to being just a recording chamber of the will of the executive, you are about to deprive us of the little power we have left: that of taking the time for debate. For a long time, the one that allows us to confront each other, to exchange arguments, the one that allows public opinion to permeate the issues discussed, to seize the debate and to re-approve the political and democratic stakes. Let us be lucid: how will we regain our legitimacy with public opinion, if we accept our powerlessness to legislate and if we deprive ourselves of the time it takes to bring democracy to life? The parliamentary debate is also about bringing into the Chamber the experiences of everyday life, the expression of feelings, wishes, hopes and impatiences that drive democracy. It is the echo of the voice of our fellow citizens, the relay of the bitter popular word. That is also why we are here by the will of the people. Parliamentary democracy is not a mere mechanics, it is not limited to a cylinder and a piston: it requires steam. That's what you want to take away from us. Finally, you also want to stifle another mission of parliamentary work: to carry the vision of a society, because it is also that which gives letters of nobility to politics, it is also that which makes its legitimacy. Your fear of political battles, of debates that make noise in Parliament, leads you to move noise and fury in the streets. You will not prevent resistance, on the contrary: you will stir it up by trying to break it. In conclusion, allow me to give to your reflection these words of constitutionalist Guy Carcassonne, hoping that they will guide you in reorienting the writing of this motion for a resolution: "Designed to be the crutches of a flaring Government, the instruments of rationalised parliamentarism have become, in the hands of strong governments, out-of-country weapons". Do not choose to multiply these instruments to transform the outer arms into deflagration bombs, even if they are time bombs. Because we all know, "Tomorrow is another day." [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] As you told us at the time of your installation, Mr President, our assembly is beautiful: it is beautiful because we are together, we are the diversity of France. It is beautiful because we are committed citizens, who fervently carry the desire to serve our people and our country. Our assembly is beautiful when it seizes what will make the lives of future generations. Our Assembly is beautiful when it debates and embraces issues that go far beyond the scope of national legislation. That's what you said, Mr. President, and I found your speech excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u130	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u131	5292 sitting hours, 112693 amendments considered, 1358 sittings: these are the figures of the XIVth Parliament of the National Assembly, figures that bear witness to inflation, legislative "incontinence", to resume your term, Mr President. For the current session, we are already at 284 sittings for 2512 hours of examination, an increase of about 20% and 33% of sitting days and hours, respectively, compared to the previous legislature. In the first legislature, the MPs had then considered a total of 4564 amendments. Fluidifying, renovating and modernising our work, the objectives set out in this motion for a resolution, then makes sense by the need to provide a relevant framework for our Assembly whose workload is growing year after year. We sometimes regret, I think, over-legislation. However, recognize that topics are increasingly technical, complex and time-consuming. We need to adapt our operations to better anchor and strengthen legislative power. As we call on our citizens to adapt to the new laws and standards that we produce, it is imperative that we legislate in better conditions. To be clear, it is not a question of providing for better working conditions for Members. It is the sense of responsibility that guides us to restore the bond of trust with our fellow citizens who deplore our functioning. Yes, we owe it to the French! We owe it to our fellow citizens, whom we represent. If this bond of trust is distended, sometimes even broken, we have to weave it again. We have to sew and take over! We owe it to our institutions for which an orderly legislative power, able to perform its function, can only strengthen our Republic. This motion for a resolution is the result first of a group agreement on the principle of reform from the beginning of the mandate and then of collective work. On behalf of my group, I would like to acknowledge and thank the work done by the President of this House and his predecessor. Thank you also to our rapporteur for the quality of his work. All the group chairmen were consulted in the preparation of this motion for a resolution. The result is a better balance between the necessary rationalization of parliamentary work on the one hand and the affirmation of Members' right of expression on the other. This balance leads us to rethink the organization of public meetings. Is it normal for bills or bills to be debated and voted in the middle of the night in a Chamber where only a few dozen Members speak? The answer is obviously no! That is why the MODEM and related group proposes to reorganise the distribution of the meetings of the National Assembly by keeping the principle of sittings on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday but by abolishing the night sittings, which have become the symbol of a rhythm of work and a legislative process that lags behind the stakes of the texts examined and opaque, and even suspicious for our fellow citizens, or even undemocratic. As at present, this proposal would not prohibit sitting on Monday afternoon but from 2 p.m. and possibly Friday. Some believe that this removal of night sittings is impossible because it would be a dry loss in parliamentary review time and consider it a fantasy idea, far from the realities imposed on us by our duties. That's not the case. It is pragmatism that guides us! In addition to the end of the night sessions, we propose one hour more sitting time than in the proposed text. To sum up, abolishing the night sessions would restore the bond of trust with our fellow citizens and, moreover, increase the time for examination in the sitting. It is because this proposal would greatly streamline our work that we are doing to you: reducing the time for general discussions – of which we see how much they are passionate: we are currently about 20 Members in session! – legislation in committee, new rules for the inclusion of articles, reduction of the time allocated for the defence of motions, This proposal may have appeared to some if not unrealistic, at least premature. But this is the balance that our Rules of Procedure must keep: rationalising – what we understand is clearly stated, isn't it, ladies and gentlemen? – while preserving the debate that is a French tradition. It seems to us important to keep the motion for referral to committee that makes sense, only for the first readings. These motions of reference contribute to plural political expression and shed light on conflicting debates of opinion. We will propose to move their examination after the general discussion. Such motions should not be put to the vote until they have heard from all the groups. On the other hand, the possibility for Members to table written contributions as an annex to the record of the proceedings cannot be a counterpart to optimising the conduct of the debates. As no one knows here, these written contributions will never have as much impact as what has been said in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u132	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u133	Because the name of parliament derives from the verb speak, the deputies have first and foremost a vocation to discuss, to deliberate. The MODEM and related group will therefore propose the deletion of these written contributions. Finally, the assessment is the great absence of this reform, and I would like to express our regret here. As you know, this is a subject to which MODEM is strongly. tied up. We would like to be able to go further and faster in the evaluation of public policies, which is also necessary for the confidence that the French give us. This motion for a resolution with a constant constitutional framework must give us the means to deal with the texts that this House will have to examine day after day. The guiding thread is a balance between optimizing our functioning and the fundamental preservation of the right to the expression of Members, the primary subject of parliamentary debate. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] For all these reasons, I wanted to assure you, Mr President, the rapporteur, of the support of the MODEM and related Group, which will work towards the balance of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u134	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u135	I am in favour of the progress that you have made in your introductory statement, Mr rapporteur and Vice-President of the House, but I would rather like to say something about what is bad. This revision of the Regulation is taking place at a less favourable time. Even though the constitutional review is to resume in the coming months, we cannot draw the logical consequences in the regulation. More haste in parliamentary work! But also no doubt a will of the majority to dispose as early as September with the forthcoming constitutional revision, a regulation able to facilitate the passage of the texts of the executive. The revision of the Assembly's Rules of Procedure must build consensus between the various political sensitivities, which historian Nicolas Roussellier described as "parlementary diagonal". This was the objective defended under the previous quinquennium, through the amendment of the regulation led by Claude Bartolone in 2014. Today, out of forty-five amendments adopted in committee, only one comes from the opposition. Trans-passionate work is therefore at this stage a promise that the present majority has not kept. However, I wanted to pay tribute to the qualities of our rapporteur, Vice-President Sylvain Waserman, his competence but also his kindness – for me, it is a compliment. It must be recognized, however, that these rules passed like "an insulated bag" from the Law Commission to the public sitting, unchanged after many hours of debate in committee. Finally, the local role of the MP would have deserved special attention. Parliament represents the "Conference of Opinions," in the words of philosopher John Stuart Mill. As such, it constitutes "an arena in which not only the general opinion of the nation, but that of each part of it can occur in full light. The majority's desire to reduce the speaking time of parliamentary groups, at all stages of the procedure, denies it that role. Presented as an acceptable counterpart, the opportunity given to parliamentarians to table written contributions, on the contrary, deprives the Assembly of one of its reasons for being: to allow a transparent and contradictory debate. This written compensation does not actually compensate for anything. As for the argument to limit the admissibility of the amendments, on the pretext that their number would have only increased, it is not serious. The statistics confirm a general inflation of legislation and this government has not changed anything. It is on the executive side that the dam must first be erected, with fewer bills and better prepared. The parliamentary agenda should, in accordance with the Constitution, make this requirement heard. Parliament oversees the Government's actions in order "to cast the light of publicity on its actions, in order to force it to the full presentation and justification of all those whom some consider questionable", in the words of John Stuart Mill. The majority's proposal to allow opposition groups to choose the role of rapporteur in committees of inquiry is a welcome step forward. Commissions of inquiry on matters that affect our fellow citizens are essential, but they are too rare. We propose that each group should be able to request the establishment of two committees of inquiry per parliamentary session. It is the effective way, living and appreciated by our fellow citizens, to really control the action of the Government. Participatory democracy is a strong contemporary requirement, it no longer escapes anyone. It is therefore a good tone that the majority wishes to change the right to petition. I see in the progress of this text the result of a work of conviction carried out in the framework of the working group on digital and new forms of citizen participation, which we gathered during the first two years of this Parliament. Transparency has also become an imperative of confidence-building democracy. While the strengthening of the role of the Assembly's ethics officer is welcome, the transparency of the contributions made by the lobbies must be at the centre of our concerns. The current system, which is to be welcomed by the establishment under the previous five-year period, needs to be strengthened. It is important that we know the texts on which the lobbies intervene and the nature of their observations. It is also up to us, as parliamentarians, to mention our sources, if any, in our amendments. [[Applause on the SOC. and GDR benches]] "In all deliberations, there is a problem to be solved, which is to know, in a given case, what the general interest requires. The formula is from Sieyes. It is therefore essential that we share our views today in order to achieve a reform of the regulation in the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u136	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u137	After two years of mandate for some, more for others, we all came to the same point: our assembly is talking a lot, and probably a lot too much. I understand that President Richard Ferrand's motion for a resolution starts above all from this point of view, by insisting on the inflation of the number of amendments, the number of sitting hours and, ultimately, the number of texts voted on, which pile up one another. I recall that successive governments are largely responsible for this legislative inflation and this hysterical agenda that does not allow us to legislate properly. However, it is up to us to make our own self-criticism and to improve what can be. That is why the IUD, Action and Independents Group welcomed the consultation initiated by Richard Ferrand with the political groups and appreciated the rapporteur's listening. We are pleased to see in this resolution several proposals put forward by our President Jean-Christophe Lagarde, such as the possibility of creating fact-finding missions to monitor the preparation of an order; the possibility of writing individual written contributions for MPs who, for example, would have a different position than that of the majority of their group or the institution of a single session of questions to the Government, which should no longer be an artificial exercise. We also find ideas suggested by our colleague Jean-Luc Warsmann in his working group, such as the procedure for legislation in committee. Before I get to the heart of my remarks, I will quickly mention two chapters of this motion for a resolution. The ethics provisions are only the transposition of those provided for in the law for trust in public life that we voted for. It will be necessary to be vigilant in their application in order to avoid gas plants; It will also be necessary to do pedagogy on new provisions such as the publication of declarations of invitations, donations and trips abroad. The new procedures for examining petitions seem to me welcome: be careful, however, that this is not a way of expressing lobbies, which is often the case for this type of tool. Also be careful not to raise false hopes with petitions closed without being studied! For the rest, which is the heart of the text, we are not going to lie to ourselves: this text reduces the ability to express in session, which will be a good thing, if it eliminates unnecessary chatter. On the other hand, we think there are a few flats to bring, and first of all, the speaking time allocated in the general discussions: five minutes per group is totally insufficient, especially in the light of the hypertrophied bills that come under discussion. Nor should the point of order be as limited as is currently planned and as long as we do, let us take advantage of current developments to systematize solemn votes in a dedicated slot, especially since it is possible to separate the explanations of vote left at the end of the examination and the vote itself. Generally speaking, yes to limit what may have given rise to abuse in the sitting but without going from one extreme to the other. Hence vigilance on certain points that require adjustments. Very concretely, you will have found that our group has not tabled any deletion amendments on the original text. Each time, we have proposed new ideas and suggestions for improvements that are all acceptable compromises for all, provided you really want to. Having said that, we must go to the bottom of things and see that our Parliament has become very weak. We are therefore not against a form of "self-limitation" but on condition that, at the same time, Parliament's capacity for initiative and control is strengthened. On these points, however, President Richard Ferrand's motion for a resolution is limited. Significant measures are the increase in the number of questions to the Government – which we support – and the possibility for the author of a drawing right to choose the position of rapporteur of a commission of inquiry, where this choice was left to the will of the majority. These two points are not negligible, but they are insufficient. We must indeed go further. We ask, for example, for an increase in the number of parliamentary niches and therefore for texts that really come from Parliament, as well as for the possibility of discussing them at the same session; the increase in the number of commissions of inquiry through an increase in the drawing right enjoyed by the groups – it would be more appropriate to speak of an evaluation commission because the objective is not the inquisition but the evaluation of policies, with real powers; the possibility of holding one post for each group on a Joint Joint Committee, especially if a constitutional review changes the pivotal role of these committees, which are beyond the control of a number of Members. Some of these ideas, it is true, require a constitutional amendment. That is why, as we tried to do last summer, we want the future revision project to strengthen Parliament's rights. You can count on our group to work hard. For other ideas, an amendment to the Rules of Procedure would be sufficient, and we cannot save it. Let us, however, ensure that this motion for a resolution does not remain superficial, since action on the substance of the matter is only referred to the Constitution. Our regulation contains binding tools for no real reason. They need to be changed in order to achieve a satisfactory balance for Members, who are not only here to try to defend amendments to government texts. At this moment in my speech, I want to make a stop: five minutes have passed, and I still have a lot to say to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u138	Nice demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u139	That shows how much five minutes is not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u140	The rapporteur knows that, and so does the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u141	It's not about asking for extra time for pleasure! In this case, I would be forced to interrupt and, moreover, you would lose the best (Sorry)! Understand that five minutes is really not enough: it takes ten. It's not much more, but it's indispensable. As I therefore have a little more than five minutes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u142	A little less than five!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u143	The master of clocks!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u144	...I'm going to be able to sue... but this may be the last time, Mr. President! Enjoy it! See what you'd lose! Understand that these additional five minutes are very important because ten minutes is a minimum to discuss! Five minutes wouldn't be enough! So I'm going back to my demonstration. The examination in committee has not really reassured us as to the possibility of achieving this balance, so much so. The consultation of the upstream group presidents must not prevent us from enriching this motion for a resolution and, above all, from counterbalancing the rationalization of speech in the House. We very much hope that the meeting will be useful in this regard. The thirty-eight amendments tabled by our group, based on our experience, are proposals of varying magnitude to adjust the day-to-day work of this House. Several of them aim to include in the regulation what is in the state is a practice because, as you know, majorities change and can perfectly defeat decisions with less scruples than their predecessors. Enrolment in the Rules of Procedure is therefore a way of securing things, especially when it comes to opposition rights. In accordance with their constructive attitude, the IDU, Action and Independent Group members therefore considered that this motion for a resolution should not be opposed in principle – on the contrary – but that it should be improved and supplemented, bearing in mind that it is inseparable from a possible future revision of the Constitution. It is urgent to give our assembly real means and tools to devote itself to the essentials and to better organize the time of the debates. Let us take advantage of this reorganization to strengthen Parliament's – currently marginal – role in monitoring but also in the budgetary or European fields! It is quite simple: the time saved during the debates in the Chamber should not be used to further increase the crazy pace of the legislative machinery for the benefit of the Government. This time must be given to Parliament, not only in the Constitution, but also, as far as possible, as soon as this reform of the regulation is implemented. Is that the case now? Not enough. This sequence must allow us to correct the shot and we will determine our vote according to what will happen. As I said in committee, there would be nothing worse than a motion for a resolution voted only by the majority. That would be a very bad message...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u145	Unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u146	... when it is really possible to involve the opposition groups, as long as they are respected and the adoption of our proposals, which are simple, will move things forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u147	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u148	We are convinced that this will be your final state of mind. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] It is precisely because majorities change that any institutional text, from the simple decision of the Bureau to the revision of the Constitution, must above all strengthen Parliament, its means of evaluation and monitoring, and the rights of opposition groups. This text must aim at fluidity, remove certain obstacles, but also expand the initiatives possible to enable our Assembly to concentrate on what is essential, therefore, on its role as counter-power.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u149	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u150	No one plays with impunity with democracy. This motion for a resolution, even though it is the result of a work carried out here in the National Assembly, was suggested by President Emmanuel Macron, we all know it as well as we are. With the obsession with words of valence that has characterized the executive power for the past two years, we had to "modernize" the functioning of our assembly. Anyone who believes that an institution that is more than two centuries old must think of itself as an agile enterprise has a serious problem with history. I am telling you clearly: democracy takes time. Democracy is long, sometimes erratic, and it is better to know that deliberation is not a matter of nanoseconds. We do not decide the destinies of the French people as we sell shares to the City. The long time puts our action in historical dynamics which are not those of reforms carried out beating drum, whose continuity with what precedes it is evident. In terms of historical continuity, I must acknowledge that this motion for a resolution is undoubtedly in line with the spirit of the Constitution of the Fifth Republic. The delusional power which is granted in our country to the President of the Republic is a real and serious problem, one of the factors that casts discredit on our institutions, and all the more so in case of error of casting. In the face of this, as you know, we are proposing a great moment of democratic reconstruction of our country through a constituent process in which our political community would rethink itself in the discussion, exchange and construction of common rules and projects. Such a moment would obviously be an opportunity to rebalance the relationship between the executive and Parliament. [[Interruptions on a few banks of the MODEM group]] Your text, contrary to what we are defending and proposing, further submits the National Assembly to the Elysée. You wish to transform this place into a Chamber of Registration of the will of the President and the Government. Your reform is an unacceptable "technocratisation" of Parliament. The Assembly, rather than remaining a place of debate and exchange, will be reduced to a role of technician, "small telegraphist" of the Government. This is what the measures taken, taken one by one, do not look like anything but, overall, make a system. Systematic limitation of Members' speaking time in public sittings, limitation of the right of amendment by stricter control of admissibility...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u151	You're not learning from anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u152	... a reduction in the time required to defend motions, the removal of the motion for referral to committee but also the establishment of a procedure for legislation in committee. This one would save you the possible turmoil of the debates in the session. You are well aware that these provisions also call into question the publicity of the debates. If the texts do not go through the House and are approved in committee, do you think that the readability of our institutions would be improved? No, of course not! Today, a majority of the orders are obeyed by the Government in total and for everything, in proportions not yet known. With your proposals, Members will now be at your attention in committee and citizen pressure will be exercised even further away. To use François Mitterrand's famous formula, you are the zealous supporters of the "permanent coup d'état". Everything for the President, crumbs for the Assembly and, above all, nothing for the people! The permanent coup is arbitrary. In our megalomaniac regime of concentration of powers, the President risks losing sight of the reality of democratic institutions. Let us recall the case of Alexandre Benalla, whom you vainly tried to reduce to an individual story. On the contrary, it revealed a structural problem for our institutions. What was a barbuze like that doing at the top of the state? How was it even possible that he was not immediately removed from his dark duties as soon as the scandal broke out? The reminders to the Rules of Procedure last summer allowed us to hold the Government to account. We have used the institutions to effectively control the wanderings of the executive. You want to regulate the right of a point of order. We see it as an idea inspired by the state scandal that comes, I remind you once again, from your majority, or, if you prefer, from the President – even if, you understand, in the Fifth Republic, it is the same. The use of reminders to the Rules of Procedure last summer, while the executive was trying to do the ostrich on the Benalla case, was a means for the National Assembly to be respected. Under no circumstances should we be subjected to the whims of a President so arrogant that he then provoked all the French with implausible childishness: "Let them come and pick me up! He told us, while refusing to be heard in a commission of inquiry! If I go back to this story, in addition to the pleasure of reminding those who would have been tempted to forget it quickly, it is to tell you what your motion for a resolution means: while the entire nation was wondering about presidential manoeuvres, the Assembly would have been obliged to continue its work, submitted as usual to the Government. This means that you include the contempt of parliamentarians in the texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u153	The bigger it is, the more it goes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u154	As François de Rugy, then President of the National Assembly, teacher's ersatz, had said, this text tells us that we cannot stand.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u155	That's the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u156	But when an Alexander Benalla demolishes demonstrators while he is among the closest to the head of state...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u157	He doesn't sit in the assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u158	...let me tell you that disrespectful people are not the ones you believe. Even more rules for parliamentarians who are known to be agitated, but where are the rules for regulating the speech of the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u159	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u160	Where are your new texts so that we can only listen to Emmanuel Macron in small doses? The disproportion of parliamentary speech and presidential speech, of which the whole country is saturated, is a worrying element. The great debate has been one of the most painful expressions since the beginning of the quinquennium. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Some of you, and they have the right to do so, love to listen to Emmanuel Macron, religiously, sometimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u161	Like other Melenchons! Everyone's choices!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u162	But this adoration of the presidential word in no way justifies the limitation of the right of parliamentarians. Then one can legitimately wonder why you are doing this. So what fly did you steal? Naïve as we are, we had forgotten one of the most powerful common places in the start-up nation: we must be effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u163	It's a synthesis...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u164	Do not change your political line: it succeeds you!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u165	We agree with this imperative, provided we give it content. For example, we would be delighted if you would apply it to cover the 100 billion euros of taxes which, every year, escape from our common funds. But you use this principle by deviating it and sit down lightly on one of the most important tasks of the National Assembly: to deliberate. We're here to deliberate. Let the executive respect the will we express as representatives of the nation! For that to happen, we would have to change our constitution and our passions for a truly democratic 6th Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u166	Called for by the whole people!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u167	As for you, you do not think that parliamentary policy is a matter of deliberation. For you, it must be an examination, expertise and assessment of government wisdom. When one sees the flaring application that characterizes the majority in order to prevent the government icon from being scratched, one can only legitimately doubt the effectiveness of parliamentary control of the Government in the present circumstances. The Speaker does not want us to be bored in deciding the law, whether we write it or vote on it. We should just play a small role of counter-power to His Almighty Majesty. I suggest to His Highness and his clerks an even more relevant idea in order to gain efficiency: that She remove the national representation and, then, Her genius will illuminate the country without any shadow coming up against Her! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The gabegie of the state is at the Elysée. At home, I don't have a 400 Euro coin plate, I didn't redo my tapestries, my floor and my tile for a taste of luxury.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u168	Let Mrs. Panot continue!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u169	You're pathetic! With 6.5%!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u170	No, we are people's deputies who are fighting for politics to return to its noblest meaning: the one who starts from everyday life to think and transform society. This is not your conception of politics, where it is a matter of governing for the benefit of a clan and listening to all associations, researchers and professionals. [[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The problem is that this reform is in addition to an already monolithic Assembly, composed of small soldiers of macroism, ready to do anything to avoid debate and discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u171	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u172	Maintaining a world, worthless, where some put their pockets without any consideration for the future, here is your project. But the Republic is not on its way: it is standing! It is all citizens who are fighting for our society not to collapse on its own, through anti-social policies. It is the thousands of popular education activists who refuse to allow our institutions to be confiscated by the richest or the most educated. It is all those who feel that our institutions are increasingly moving away from the democratic idea. These are those who know that, to live, the Republic needs to look new. With this motion for a resolution, you are only deceiving it further. The presidential monarchy, which is in reality the Fifth Republic, is a regime which dispossesssssssssssssss the people of its sovereignty. The democratic crisis in our country calls for higher ambitions. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] That is why we will continue to fight for a VIth Republic where citizens can revoke elected officials, where a new declaration of rights would take account of the ecological issue and where Parliament would finally cease to be trampled on by a free-wheeled executive. Earlier than you think, the time will come from this great constituent moment, when the French will take over their destiny. We are representatives of the people, we will not let you gag us, depoliticize us. We have a much higher idea of democracy and popular sovereignty, and we can therefore only vote against this resolution, which still weakens Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u173	Who's handing over a play?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Panot. It was solar. Mrs Naïma Moutchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u175	Because we are going through a crisis of confidence, the action of parliamentarians must more than ever contribute to strengthening the role of Parliament, when it legislates, when it controls, when it evaluates; This leads us to have to constantly ask ourselves about the effectiveness of our own action. For if Parliament is to speak, it must speak usefully. However, and as we see almost daily in the practice of our work, dysfunctions persist within our assembly, which hinder us and which too often contribute to blocking our discussions. It seems to me that we all agree that the way in which we legislate is not satisfactory. More speaking time and more and more amendments: our legislature is breaking all the records. However, this inflation has not improved the quality of the law or made the expressions and opinions of everyone clearer. Of this, it is the entire national representation that is responsible – and I think of the sometimes blurred, unreadable image that it refers to our fellow citizens. The fault with the texts too long, I heard. For my part, I note that even the shortest texts are an opportunity for endless arguties. What we can change today in our "inner law", we must do so, without waiting for constitutional reform. Why indeed wait, when we ourselves can correct some of the shortcomings of our regulation, as was the case in 2014? And to those who cry out for constitutional reform, I would remind them that they were on the front line last summer to oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u176	We're not asking for anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u177	Those who had not voted the reform had abstained!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u178	That's not true, I checked: the Republicans voted against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u179	It was lunar!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u180	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u181	A regulation must live, and therefore evolve in order to adapt to political developments and parliamentary practices: the reform of the regulation is therefore nothing scandalous in itself. But this regulation obliges us; It organizes, through parliamentary life, a bit of democratic life. Michel Debré recalled that the regulation is of a constitutional nature because it affects the mechanism of the institutions. And proof of the importance of the settlement in our institutional architecture lies in its systematic submission to the control of the Constitutional Council, which is not the case with ordinary laws. From this point of view, the regulation is similar to organic laws. The regulation is so linked to the Constitution that we do not understand that its reform precedes constitutional reform. The regulation reflects our understanding of our role. It is not only an internal matter that would look only at us, it is an element of the power relationship between the legislature and the executive. However, in this balance of power, Parliament – and the Assembly in particular – has lost a lot: two examples will suffice to convince you of this. The first concerns the multiplication of ordinances, which removes part of our legislative power. The second relates to the accelerated procedure, formerly called the emergency declaration: since the beginning of this legislature, of the one hundred and fifty-seven bills tabled in the National Assembly or the Senate, the Government has resorted to the accelerated procedure in 61.6 per cent of cases, compared with 48 per cent between 2012 and 2017, 35 per cent under the 13th legislature and the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, 22 per cent under the legislature corresponding to Jacques Chirac's second mandate. What does this accelerated procedure mean in concrete terms? It deprives us of a right to speak at a second reading. You should have, Mr. President, made that observation and engaged in a power relationship with the Government. You could have told him: make efforts and we will make them; We are prepared to move the general discussion forward on the condition that you have less recourse to the accelerated procedure. This could have limited the reform to cases where the Government does not use the expedited procedure; That would have been smart.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u183	All in nuances!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u184	They adhere to everything! They don't have a choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u185	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u186	It was the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u187	They're even avenging!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u188	We need both of them! The street, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u189	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u190	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u191	Albert Camus wrote: "Democracy is not the law of the majority but the protection of the minority. This must also, and first of all, apply within this House. And that implies giving the opposition the necessary right of expression. Parliamentary democracy is a long-term process; majority and opposition alternate, fortunately. Think, then, that one day you may be in opposition, and that you will have the legitimate need to express what you think is right and in the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u192	Soon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u193	These are the Stalinists of liberalism!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u194	Expert word!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u195	Don't forget what we are, what you are and what we represent. We are elected representatives of the nation, elected to implement article 24 of the Constitution and to represent the citizens who elected us. To adopt this regulation as it stands would be to deny this parliamentary status, to renounce democratic debate, to bring a decisive blow to Parliament's already well-impaired power. I'm telling you with seriousness. Contrary to what has been said, the last reform of the Assembly's Rules of Procedure in 2014 has been the subject of a patiently sought consensus among all the groups represented in the Assembly, and has received unanimity in the Bureau of the Assembly. It had even been a prerequisite for the majority to have prevailed at the time, considering that the majority should be the first guarantor of the rights of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u196	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u197	You're moving dangerously away from that line. If the reminder of what a socialist president, Claude Bartolone, could do doesn't convince you, go back in time. Other presidents, other political sensitivities have been able to adopt this course of action, the only one possible in democracy. I am thinking of Philippe Séguin, who proclaimed, in 1994 in other words, the same idea as Camus: "Democracy is not limited to the law of the majority, it is expressed above all in respect for the rights of the minority". This is your task, don't forget. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] To conclude, let us recall a great moment in parliamentary history, which goes back twenty-seven years. The same Philippe Séguin, here, delivered a memorable speech of more than two hours to defend an exception of inadmissibility to the bill to ratify the Maastricht Treaty. This speech was then published in a book. I don't think anyone here thinks that these two hours were, at the time, interpreted as an obstruction procedure, or that they had an adverse effect on the debate at the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u198	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u199	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u200	Some images have a devastating effect. Who does not remember these stories about a handful of MPs voting in the middle of the night a bill supposedly useful, important, essential? Who hasn't wondered about the harmful consequences for our democracy of such absenteeism? And I invite you to count us tonight... Who does not know that, in the smallest of associations, a quorum is required to change a comma of statutes that no one reads? And yet, as we are about to review the Rules of Procedure of this House, it does not seem necessary, obvious, vital to anyone to radically change the situation if we want to be more credible. It is true that you have found, once again I was going to add, a subterfuge to save appearances: you have decided to have the texts now voted on Tuesday, after the question-and-answer session in the Government, one of the few times when the vast majority of elected representatives are present. For communication, appearances are saved: the images of an almost deserted hemicycle are finished during a vote. But on the bottom of it, we make fun of our fellow citizens! The articles of a text could therefore be voted by only a few Members, only the final vote, sometimes of pure form, taking place with the bulk of the troupe. There is, however, a simple solution that does not cost a cent: no text should be able to be voted on if half of the Members are not present or represented in the Chamber. One cannot explain to us, to lament, that the French no longer trust politics and do not want to change our comfortable habits as elected of the nation. If we really want the situation to change, why not cut our work in three steps: a third in the field, in our constituencies, a third in committee, a third in the Chamber? The Members would then no longer have excuses to dry public sittings! But, it's true, fewer laws would be passed in a year... Would that be a problem? Not so sure. Is it not Emmanuel Macron who, during his election campaign, promised to put an end to legislative inflation? We would therefore do a double blow: fewer laws but more elected ones reflect and discuss laws. What is more, the French would perhaps be reconciled with their representatives, which, I believe, is worth it. I would also like to express my total disagreement with your proposals, which are supposedly aimed at rationalizing parliamentary work but which, in reality, lead to a musellement of the opposition – I hardly exaggerate. Whether it is work in committee at the expense of sittings in the Chamber, limiting speeches on the article, or the impossibility of defending identical or other amendments, it is simply unacceptable! Finally, you know that I will not ignore the subject of the non-attached Members. Non-registrants do not have the same rights as others: last to speak, without representatives to assert their rights, and above all, never informed. Everything is done, not even against them, but simply without them. This is quite the opposite in the Senate, where independent senators have much more resources than we, MPs. This difference in treatment is as incomprehensible as it is unfair. Some do not understand what the problem is, forgetting too easily that by depriving unregistered Members of Parliament of their rights, it is a whole part of the French that they ask to remain silent. And what a part of the French! Yesterday's results are quite telling. To remedy this situation, I have a series of proposals to make to you and I will present some 40 amendments to allow non-attached people not to be treated in near pariahs. I am thinking of the place we should have in the Conference of Presidents, or the scheduled legislative time, which requires us, when our speaking time has expired, which happens very quickly, to stay in the Chamber without being able to speak. I am thinking of the impossibility of asking for public ballots or suspensions of sittings, of our bills which are never discussed in the House, of committees of inquiry, and I am moving on. I know, Mr rapporteur, your will and that of the President of this House, the one you are presenting at least, to rebalance things. You know my commitment to this. This text needs to be reviewed in depth. This is the sine qua non for a return of this trust which you so willingly claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u201	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u202	Unlike many other speakers, this text seems to me to be timely in a time when the nation's elected representatives are closely followed by critical and exacerbated fellow citizens, which has not escaped anyone on any bench.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u203	That has always been the case! What a pretension!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u204	Of all the objectives of this text, two seem to me to be particularly important, in that they highlight the qualities of this project as well as its limitations. In the Republic Group on the move, we have only one wish, that of improving the quality of our work, even if it is necessary to make some adjustments in the future. We need to improve the quality of our work, but also the perception of our fellow citizens. Yesterday's elections bear witness to this need. Let us remember that we are working under constant constitutional law, which limits our room for manoeuvre, because respect for existing constitutional law never makes it possible to emancipate ourselves from the rules governing the hierarchy of norms, which has often been discussed this evening. We want to improve our work and, as has been said very little, to re-emphasize the image of this institution, which some people continue to idolize, thus increasing the gap with public opinion. This text forms a coherent set that, in order to achieve its objectives, goes beyond partisan divisions. Our work is criticized for its slowness, its heavyness. It would be overtaken by the society in which we live and the speed of trade that characterizes it. I do not apologies for speed but I draw your attention to the need to improve quality. We all suffer from some of the pitfalls of legislative work, starting with its excessive slowness, its redundancy, the multiplication of the imposed figures. I have been elected for less than two years, but I know how much we suffer from the length of work in public sittings, while most of the work is done in committee, which is beyond the reach of our fellow citizens. However, the work in committee will not be altered in any way by this draft resolution, and we can welcome it. We all suffer from a lack of permanent preparation in our work, from the unpredictability of our agendas, since we never know how long it will take to examine a text. Our life in the riding, to which we are all attached, is very complicated. Finally, I will be the only one to have the honesty to say so, we are all trapped by the demand for formal services. The increase in the number of amendments, the number of speeches, is aimed more at treating statistical work than at substantive work. The text proposed to us, which I very much hope will be adopted, is intended to improve the publicity of our work, by putting the final vote on Tuesday at the end of the question-and-answer session in the Government. Let's say it, it makes it better to vote the texts when there are many! Although all Members have worked on these texts, their vote at 4 a.m. in the presence of 60 Members in the Chamber does not value anyone's work. The text also proposes to shorten night sessions. It's hardly credible: who can tell that he works until 3 a.m., every night of the week? Let us take up the proposal to revitalize the question-sessions of the Government by granting a right of reply, which will increase the number of statements made by the opposition, or that of restoring the right to petition, in order to bring the people's proposals to the heart of the Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, other measures tend to improve our working conditions, essential measures that many call for, whether they are a timetable for planning our agenda, a procedure for adoption in committee for the simplest and most consensual texts, or an extension of the deadline for tabling amendments. I do not repeat the measures aimed at improving the conditions for the consideration of the texts already commented on.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u205	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u206	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u207	The meeting was resumed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u208	I would like to reply to the speakers who spoke in the general discussion, and first of all to Mr Huyghe on the opposition groups. In this regard, I thought the Republican Group would be very interested to be represented here to show its attachment to the famous three-and-a-half hour tunnel...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u209	I'm here!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u210	Mr. Lurton, if you could be kind enough to convey my answer to Mr. Huyghe about the important point he raised...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u211	But that's why I'm here, Mr. Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u212	You will tell him that in the working group that we have convened, which involved all the parties, all agreed to give the groups the freedom to choose whether or not they declare themselves to be opposed. We agreed in a consensus – a consensus that extended to your group – that it was better to maintain this tradition of our house, which also exists in the Senate. Mrs Pinel, thank you for your comments. You pointed out an important point about group size. Indeed, at the very beginning of the process, it was proposed to set the threshold for group membership at 5% of the number of Members. But, as we have noted, President Richard Ferrand, when he built the consensus on reform, chose not to follow up on this proposal. This is an example of a choice that does not take place by means of an amendment adopted at the end of the race, but rather upstream. In fact, our success will not be measured arithmetically by the number of amendments adopted or rejected, but by the consideration given to fundamental points such as this – on the others, we have clearly expressed ourselves in committee. I thank Mr Questel and Mrs Moutchou for highlighting the real progress that the text allows – I will not go back to that. Mr President Chassaigne, I believe we are all in favour of the beautiful declaration of love that you have addressed to the House, but a little less so for those of you who suggest that we would muzzle those who want to debate or that we would be afraid of the debate. I would remind you that we have 700 amendments from the opposition to consider on this text, which each involve two minutes of speaking time and at least two minutes of reply, i.e. a total of some 46 hours of expression. But these rules of the game will in no way be altered by the reform – to a certain degree, the case of identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u213	On the line, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u214	But it is in order to better reaffirm the importance of the reply, by allowing two where the current regulation only provides for one! Let us be clear: there are no restrictions on freedom of speech. We will have an opportunity to discuss this later. Thank you, Ms. Jacquier-Laforge, for calling our vigilance on several points; We understand them well. As far as written contributions are concerned, the proposal comes from the working groups in which we participated. I would also like to remind you that we have tried to make progress on time management, a subject that is of particular interest to you. But we'll get back to it. Mrs Untermaier, thank you for your comments. I really do not want you to keep the impression that our work in committee has been useless. Indeed, I have heard twice that we have only accepted one amendment. But the work in committee has made progress on a number of issues, such as the deadline for appeals against the legislative procedure in committee, the consolidation of votes after questions to the Government, the conditions for the submission of written contributions, the discussions prior to the European Council, the mechanism for harassment – which was not originally part of the text –, ethics and deportation, petitions... Harassment, for example, was the subject of several amendments. I was able to propose a consolidated wording in a new amendment which, if I may say so, crushed others, but it would be unfair to consider that I did not accept anything: my amendment was directly fed by others. This is a small clarification that is important for the rest of our debates. I also thank Mr Zumkeller for his speech. He wished to increase the number of niches, on the grounds that the number of bills would be insufficient. I must quote an unknown figure: in the course of this Parliament, forty-seven bills – government-initiated, therefore – were passed, and twenty-four bills were passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u215	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] Aimed for their content!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u216	Among us, Aurélien Pradié is particularly well placed to know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u217	They've been debated!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u218	Go on, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u219	It is obvious that there are rules, but it seemed to me important to recall these figures. [[Mr. Frédéric Petit applause]] Finally, Mrs Panot, for having attended each of the working group meetings for 18 months and for having benefited from an account of each of the meetings of my group chair with all the chairmen, I find it very disrespectful to imply that the motion for a resolution would have been prepared in the office commissioned for the presidency or the executive. It is a work that has taken time, which has been carefully designed and built by the Members for themselves, for their own rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u220	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u221	Because of the Benalla case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u222	I wanted to say that because we must respect everyone's work. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, Mrs Ménard, you have forgotten to mention that, in six areas, the situation of non-attached persons is progressing. I do not think that this aspect of President Ferrand's proposal has been imposed, to the benefit of the non-attached, under the pressure of all the political groups... I believe it is important to take note of this significant progress. You did it in committee, it would be good to do it again in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u223	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u224	I now call, in the committee's text, the articles of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u225	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 427.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u226	We have tabled an amendment in committee to make it possible to amend the Rules of Procedure only with the agreement of the majority of the groups constituted. We were somewhat surprised by the rapporteur's reply, which indicated to us that, by virtue of the individual nature of the vote, everyone should be able to decide in his own soul and conscience whether or not to approve a motion for a resolution. We were all the more pleased to hear you say that, Mr rapporteur, given the exorbitant powers that you intend to give to the groups in the rest of your text. You will, for example, prohibit members of a group from speaking on the articles of a text: only one Member will be allowed to speak, with the permission of the chairman of his group. In any event, we have taken your point into account and amended our amendment. We therefore propose that it is not possible to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly without the agreement of a three-fifths majority of the votes cast. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] We have drawn inspiration from the provisions in force for the Constitution, the revision of which requires three fifths of the votes cast by parliamentarians. That would be a good illustration of your democratic ambition. This procedure should apply to all of our rules of operation, because it is a matter of bringing about a democracy that is common to us. It cannot simply be a majority choice: the change of democratic rules, common rules of the game, must be made with a much wider majority than the majority constituted, and by trying to associate as much as possible all the components, in order to reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u227	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u228	I would like you to measure the scope of this proposal: this majority would decide, by a simple majority, a new regulation, but the next one could only change it with a three-fifths majority! The majority could decide what it wants today, and it would actually be engraved in the marble since no change in the rules of procedure has obtained three-fifths of the votes... On the day when a majority will want to rise to three fifths after having voted by simple majority, we will have to ask ourselves questions about democracy! Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u229	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u230	It's not very convincing...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u231	There was no public vote in 2014!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u232	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u233	The pirouette is skillful! Having said that, as you have not dared to propose it yourself, I would like to do so because I am a member of the opposition. If we agree on this proposal, it could be adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u234	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u235	Three-fifths is probably excessive, but this amendment raises the question of qualified majority to revise the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure. Of course, the Fifth Republic is based on the majority fact, and the majority has been designated by a majority of voters. But if it wants to respect the institution, the "house", it must establish a number of guarantees to ensure that the modes of operation are minimally shared. This is the sense of the outstretched hand mentioned earlier by the group The Republicans. This could very well be translated into a qualified majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u236	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u237	This will help to remove the doubt about my attendance during these debates! Article 1 allows group chairmen to sit on the Bureau of the National Assembly, which is problematic. So far, there were two institutions. The first, the Bureau of the National Assembly, which was responsible for the administration of the National Assembly, was "positive", since its decisions concerned the functioning of the institution. The second, the Conference of Presidents, which was responsible for the administration of policy, brought together the group presidents. Combining the technical functioning and the political agenda, having the same people sit in the forums, we play a troubled game that risks misleading the nature of our institution's activity. We are not only a space for political debate: we are also the guarantor of democracy. These two complementary but often competing functions were embodied by two different institutions. We're mixing the two together, allowing one to overflow on the other. It does not seem to me to simplify things or make them more understandable. Moreover, I do not see what this brings to allow group chairmen to sit at the Bureau meeting, which is also without a vote. It will serve only to sow the trouble, the confusion in our institution, the meaning of which will be lost.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u238	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u239	I would like to say from the outset that we still have things to improve in the functioning of this House. There have been a lot of changes before us, and there will still be a lot later. Our main motivation in examining this text is to do better in the general interest and in the interests of our fellow citizens, for whom we serve. This is, in any case, my conception of this function, for which, like all of us, I represent a part of the voice of these fellow citizens. For my part, I consider that the rights of the opposition are not respected in your proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am thinking in particular of the abolition of the motion for referral to committee, the limitation of the general discussion to the intervention of one speaker per group for a time which must not exceed five minutes, without taking into account the weight of each group, the restriction to one speaker per group for a period of five minutes, without taking into account either the weight of each group, the statements on the articles, or finally the limitation of speeches on identical amendments. How many times have I been able to see during our sittings that the discussion of identical amendments could make it possible to change the text when we took the time for discussion? I know that these discussions are sometimes lengthy, but for me it is the assurance of respect for our democracy, to which we all stand here. Mr President, such an amendment to the Rules of Procedure cannot be adopted without consensus. You now have a plethorical majority, which allows you to adopt it alone. Democracy is not that: it is also respect for oppositions, and I hope that our debates will enable us to achieve this.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u240	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u241	Mr Schellenberger presented the issues at stake in the debate. Some of the issues raised at Bureau meetings relate, for example, to waivers of parliamentary immunity. I have noted that the group presidents could not vote, but I am not sure that the Presidents' presence reinforces, from a political point of view, the unassailable nature of the Bureau's decisions. I have had some special situations during the previous parliamentary term, and the President has probably also known them since he was President of the Assembly. I feel that there is a need to maintain the separation between the political decisions taken at the Conference of Presidents and certain decisions that require consensus and are exclusively the responsibility of the Bureau, which must be understood from a non-political, administrative or technical point of view. I did not make these observations in committee, but Mr Schellenberger's comments led me to think that we might have forgotten, during the examination of this article, certain things which deserve to be reconsidered by the House. The Conference of Presidents must retain its full political dimension, and the Bureau meetings, in which, for example, the Quaestors participate, must retain their very technical dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u242	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 78 and 381, which aim to delete the article. Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u243	He's forbidden.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u244	The following two amendments are not defended. I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 381.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u245	The debate is already going very quickly, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u246	Because there are a lot of absentees – who could spare us their amendments, I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u247	[[Smile]] The absent people are wrong! There is no need to amend the regulations so that absent persons do not express themselves... With regard to this article, we do not have a frontal ideological disagreement, but we want to share a conviction. It seems to us that each body has its own interest. The Conference of Presidents brings together, around the Presidents, the President of the Assembly, and a number of people. The Bureau is composed of Vice-Presidents, Secretaries, etc. While it may seem interesting to broaden their composition to make them more democratic, the representation of the whole is already ensured in the various bodies: the risk is therefore rather to maintain confusion. Moreover, participation without the right to vote is frustrating and may lead to other disadvantages. In reality, it is better to leave it to the organs as they exist, without making them permeable to the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u249	All solutions have pitfalls. If the decision-making process of the bodies was altered, there could indeed be confusion. Our proposal is motivated by an objective of efficiency. We know that decisions will be taken in accordance with the rules of the Bureau, on the one hand, and the Conference of Presidents, on the other. These instances follow different logics. To participate in both, as Vice-President, I think we will gain in efficiency, because we can speak and decide directly, at the right level and at the right time. Personally, I am in favour of the presence of the presidents. If we are aware of this pitfall, we will be careful not to fall under the presidency of the President of the Assembly. I am against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u250	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u251	I have the feeling, Mr rapporteur, that you are trying to define rules which, as often in this House, are very talkative, super-faithful, and which tend to try to regulate, regulate and organise things which are part of normal functioning, and in particular of the way in which we preside. The discussions in the Conference of Presidents or the Bureau of the Assembly have been more effective and faster since the President of our institution changed, if I judge by the length of the meetings. But it is not because some presidents have allowed lengthy discussions to take place that the rules are necessarily bad: it can simply depend on how to preside! It is not because the way of presiding is wrong that new rules must be laid down in the hope that the institution will be better presided over.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u252	Why attack the current president?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u253	Did you listen to what I said? It is rather a compliment that I paid to the current President of our institution! Mr Balanant, if you do not appreciate these compliments on the current way of animating the meetings of the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents, that is your problem. However, we are in the process of establishing rules because a former President of the National Assembly has left our institution in a very degraded state. Today, he is no longer with us, which is why we may be uncomfortable when we talk about him...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u254	Not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u255	It is not because the House has been poorly presided over that it is absolutely necessary to lay down rules on how to chair it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u256	I have before me two amendments, Nos 621 and 551, which can be presented together. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u257	Before defending these two very close amendments, I would have liked to have been able to support my amendment No. 718, which seeks to bring the status of non-registered members into line with that of non-registered senators, but the sitting department placed it after rule 2. By our two amendments Nos 621 and 551, Mrs Lorho and I propose that a representative of the non-attached Members should be able to participate in the meetings of the group chairmen. These amendments do not remove anything from anyone's mind: they give a right to non-attached persons, who will be able to participate better in the life of the National Assembly. In doing so, they help to combat a certain opacity. The latter is neither wanted nor organised, but for the last two years I have been sitting with you in this House, I find that non-registered Members suffer from a chronic and constant lack of information. Of course, we can always retrieve this information by calling the session service or by visiting the website, but we always receive it some time after the others. However, as I will keep reminding you during our debates, the unregistered Members are Members like the others. We have been elected like others, and we should have the same rights as others. That is not the case, and it is a pity for parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u258	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u259	Unfavorable. I will not repeat that this motion for a resolution contains six advances in favour of non-attached Members. I understand and respect your will to go further, but it happens that the political groups were recognized in the Constitution in 2008. Therefore, the choice or failure to belong to a political group cannot be circumvented by inventing an organisation that would bring together non-attached Members and give them a spokesperson.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u260	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u261	Earlier, a number of us referred to the right of individual defence of the amendments and the need to allow speaking in open session. Non-attached Members enjoy these rights, which they use regularly, and rightly so. However, the situation of the political groups, whose existence is recognized by the Constitution, must be distinguished from that of the non-attached. I understand that some non-attached Members are not on a voluntary basis, especially if they are not in sufficient numbers to form a coherent network or group in the National Assembly, but the existing balance must be maintained. This motion for a resolution already contains a number of advances for non-attached Members, which our rapporteur has mentioned and which constitute a rather coherent signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u262	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u263	I accept that the preference given to political groups is constitutional, and I do not question it. However, our fellow citizens elect their deputies according to a personality and a name: they do not necessarily take into account a group. I can take the example of Members present. Forgive me for taking your part, Mr Castellani, but your voters did not elect you to join the Freedom and Territory Group, since this group did not exist then!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u264	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u265	That's not wrong...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u266	It is therefore not consistent to systematically favour political groups. I do not mind that groups have rights; I would simply like non-attached Members to have the same rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u267	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No 656 on the additional article after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u268	We propose that half of the positions of Vice-President, Quaestor and Secretary be allocated to members of opposition and minority groups. To facilitate this distribution, we would increase the number of Quaestors to four. It seems to me important to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u269	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u270	Unfavorable. It is essential to replicate the political composition of our Chamber in the Assembly's governance bodies – this is one of the foundations of our current democratic model. We will not proceed to the Sixth Republic when we consider an amendment to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u271	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u272	[[Smile]] It may be a shame, but we won't! But, beyond constitutional reasons, I repeat that it is important that the composition of our governance bodies reflect as much as possible the plurality and diversity of Members in our Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u273	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u274	We are obviously against this amendment by the La France Group, although it could help you, Mr rapporteur, to make your text more coherent. Indeed, this amendment is part of the confusion of the roles of the various institutions that you have established in Article 1. From the moment the management institution of the Bureau of the Assembly responds to a political logic, then it makes sense to go to the end of the process and ensure the political balance of this management institution. We are opposed to it. In our view, the management institutions of the Bureau and the quest must remain tools for monitoring democracy; In this respect, a representation of the opposition in order to ensure a certain degree of transparency seems sufficient. However, I repeat, it is not surprising that such an amendment has been tabled since it is consistent with the inconsistency that you have introduced in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u275	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u276	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 694.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u277	We have already discussed with the rapporteur this amendment on gender equality in the Bureau of the National Assembly. There has been some progress on this issue, but parity is still not effective, which seems to us to be extremely politically damaging. I know what you are going to say to me, rapporteur: that we cannot force groups to present a woman for a particular position. But you mentioned the possibility of a sub-amendment... We must move forward on this issue. It is not possible that in France, in 2019, the Bureau of the National Assembly is not equal.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u279	Of course, we share your objective. We have made significant progress in this area, but until we reach parity, they will not be enough. This amendment has a democratic limit. Could we refute the candidate from a group with a single seat on the ground that he did not have the kind expected? You will therefore understand that democratic and governance reasons lead us, regrettably, to postpone this amendment. We must strive to respect the requirement of parity, which we will also extend to the bureaus of the committees, but unfortunately we cannot guarantee at this stage a result of perfect parity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u280	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u281	Mr rapporteur, we have already discussed this subject together. You then referred to the possibility of tabling a sub-amendment concerning the groups presenting two or three candidates to the Bureau to ensure parity in these applications. What about today?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u282	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 570.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u283	We have recently considered the bill enabling the Government to take by order measures to prepare for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. For the first time, we did not have the opinion of the Council of State before the discussion of the text. Our precise amendment aims to prevent this situation from happening again. [[Raphaël Schellenberger applauds]] As you know, article 39 of the Constitution provides that before being deliberated in the Council of Ministers and tabled on the bureau of one of the two assemblies, a bill is submitted for advice to the Council of State. Prior to the examination of the text by one of the two chambers, this opinion should be forwarded to the deputies, for example through the President of the National Assembly. Once again, it is a matter of avoiding a recurrence of the totally abnormal situation that we faced in the discussion of the Brexit bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u284	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u285	Under no circumstances may the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure impose new obligations on the executive. In this sense, it would not be constitutional to oblige the Government to communicate to us any element. However, the practice of the current government, as well as of the previous government, is to make public these opinions of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u286	During the examination of the Brexit Bill, he did not!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u287	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u288	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u289	Mr rapporteur, saying things in the Chamber does not turn them into truths. Pierre-Henri Dumont made it clear that, during the examination of the Brexit bill, which was still an important text for the future of European integration and the functioning of our public authorities, we were not informed by the opinion of the Council of State. Although you invoke the practice, the latter suffers from exceptions, in addition to essential texts. Your answer to the alleged unconstitutionality of this amendment highlights one of the major shortcomings of this motion for a resolution and of the process that led to its consideration: we are discussing a reform of the regulation even though we know that the Government intends to submit to us a revision of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u290	Exactly! That's what we've been saying since the beginning of the afternoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u291	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u292	Of course, we ourselves said last summer that certain things could be reformed in the functioning of this House without affecting the Constitution. But if a revision of the Constitution allows us to go further, what is the point of rushing to reform the regulation when a constitutional bill could, in a few weeks or months' time, open up new opportunities for us to improve our work? I do not understand your haste to want to study this text absolutely before the review of the constitutional reform – if not, perhaps, because you hope to implement some of its provisions in order to reduce the time that we will have to discuss the basic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u293	I call Mr Regis Juanico to support Amendment No. 209.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u294	With this amendment, the deputies of the Socialist and related groups intend to guarantee a better representativeness of the Bureau of the National Assembly. The amendment provides, first of all, that the election of the Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries should reproduce the political configuration of the Assembly. As it stands, the Rules of Procedure provide that this election "takes place by endeavouring to reproduce the political configuration of the Assembly". However, in view of the essential tasks of the Bureau, it was essential that the various groups should be represented there. It then provides that this election "respects parity between women and men", whereas the regulation only provides today that it takes place by striving to respect this principle, which has constitutional value. It can be seen that, to date, the Bureau of the Assembly is composed of thirteen men and nine women. If we go into more detail, we see that the vice-presidents are held by two women and six men, and the quaestors are held by one woman and two men.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u295	You didn't think about it in 2014!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u297	On parity, my answer will be the same as before: there is an intention, translated by the words "trying to" to reproduce political diversity and parity. You know that appointments to the Bureau are made by consensus and, in the absence of consensus, by specific election: therefore, there can be no result at present. While we could completely reshape the governance of the Office and our internal decision-making institutions, we have chosen to stick to our tradition of asserting that we strive to replicate the diversity of public opinion and parity. The committee's opinion is therefore unfavourable, because we cannot impose a result objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u298	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-05-27-O1248.u299	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further consideration of the motion for a resolution to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The meeting is adjourned.
