ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u2	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor to put her question, No. 532, on the rest of the income from active solidarity in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u3	With Article 261 of the Finance Act for 2019, the Government wanted to take into account the consequences of the increasing distortion between the expenditure incurred by departments in respect of individual solidarity allowances, first of all the RSA, and the compensation paid by the State. In 2017, the remaining charge was $9 billion. However, in addition to the fact that the Stabilisation Fund will be financed to a large extent - 135 million out of 250 million - from resources allocated to the Poverty Fund, the objectives of which are quite other, it is a provisional solution which leaves the problem of the rest to be borne and hence the application of the principle of national solidarity. It also falls short of horizontal solidarity between departments, which is reflected in the new interdepartmental support fund. For La Réunion, where the cumulative debt of the State is estimated at 1.2 billion, there is little chance that these new allocations will lead to a reversal or even stabilization of the remainder, the amount per capita of which is three times higher than the national average. Year after year, the department is forced to supplement its own funds with the shortcomings of the state, to the detriment of its preventive, integration and accompaniment activities with our most fragile fellow citizens. The drastic decline in aided contracts in 2018 has resulted in a sharp rise in unemployment – more than 2.2% compared with 1.4% at national level – and has an impact on RSA's demands. To overcome the paradox where the departments with the most poor are the most penalized, two scenarios are possible: full compensation, which represents half of the two funds created, or the recentralization of the RSA to the State, as permitted by the Constitution. In December, La Réunion's departmental councillors unanimously advocated the second formula. Madam Minister for Overseas Affairs, is the Government going to study the process of recentralisation of the RSA to the State, as in Guyana and Mayotte? How do you intend to react to the rise in unemployment in Réunion, which is not found anywhere else in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u5	Mrs Bello, the President of the Republic announced the recentralization of the RSA for Guyana during her visit to this department in October 2017; the same measure was then also taken for Mayotte. This decision responds to the unique situation of the two territories. As you point out, other overseas departments have applied to benefit from it, including La Réunion – I have addressed the issue during my last trip to the island. In Guyana and Mayotte, after recentralizing the RSA, the State wishes to entrust the management of the RSA to the family allowance funds, instead of the communities concerned. As you know, the President of the Republic had mentioned the idea of recentralizing the RSA in all departments, but the metropolitan departments opposed it. I have fought for reflection for the Overseas Territories and I am pleased that the decision has been taken for Guyana and Mayotte, the two poorest French overseas territories. I also know the difficulties of La Réunion. As you know, the President of the Republic has committed himself to discussing a reform of the system of benefits paid to modest households, and the process is under way. Fabrice Lenglart, who was appointed rapporteur-general for the reform of the universal working income on 24 January, must provide us with answers to reorganise benefits by 2020. It is in this context that I would like to raise the issue of the recentralisation of the RSA for La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u6	Mrs Huguette Bello has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You know that the situation in La Réunion is specific, out of standard. The RSA table by department shows that in relative terms, this is where the RSA beneficiaries are most numerous: 110344 per 840000 inhabitants. The most populous department of France, the North, for 2.6 million inhabitants, has only 127000. Since our situation is special, I hope that the work to recentralize the RSA for La Réunion will be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u8	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux, who will put his question, No 550, on shark risk in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u9	Madam Minister for Overseas Affairs, I would like to draw your attention to the dramatic consequences of the shark crisis in Reunion. It could be considered that everything has been said, all have been listened to, everything has been considered. Yet it is clear that nothing has changed, or so little. It will soon be eight years since an island is deprived of its coastline: it has been exactly 2013 days since Réunionnais and Réunionnais suffered the consequences of the calamitous management of the crisis. Yes, since July 26, 2013, the state has been protecting its ILI citizens by simply banning access to the vast majority, not to say almost all, of the coastline. This prohibition, we are told, is provisional – a temporary extension, it seems, ad vitam æternam. Would you be able to restrict access to the sea, 2013 days, to holidaymakers, tourists and residents of seaside resorts such as Hossegor, Lacanau or Biarritz? I'm asking you. Admittedly, commitments have been made to reduce the risk associated with this problem, which severely hinders and penalizes all economic, social, cultural and sporting activities associated with the La Réunion coastline. But the current situation shows us that these measures are more than inadequate: they are ineffective and dangerous. Our historic beaches have become a real shark park. The Marine Reserve protects these predators: Bulldog sharks and Tiger Sharks, who have, 25 times since 2011, attacked, killed or maimed. These new predators are, in the opinion of many specialists, professionals and users of the sea, at the origin of the drastic decrease, in this space, of other species reduced to impotence. However, no major reform of the marine reserve has been planned so far, whether it is a revision of its regulations or its relocation outside the seaside area. None of the relevant and sustainable solutions proposed, in particular, by associative actors has been studied or discussed. The lack of listening to local actors, despite repeated warnings, and the ignorance of their proposals give rise to an acute sense of injustice in the population, fuelling resentment and fuelling extremes. What solutions have been available for eight years? Dressings. You were not there in 2013, Madam Minister, but I dare to ask you today: what do you intend to do to enhance and promote our maritime asset? It's time to act. The Meeting, the Réunionnais and the Réunionnais deserve a genuine and ambitious programme of re-appropriation of the coastline.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u11	Mr Poudroux, I know this dramatic subject for having met on several occasions with the Réunions who have mobilized against the risk of sharks, as well as those who have unfortunately been attacked by sharks or tiger sharks. But we must remain extremely vigilant. You do not say that no wounded or killed have been deplored for twenty-one months, after the many tragedies that occurred between 2011 and 2017. Why has the level of risk decreased? Because the Government and the communities have acted, adopting an action plan 2018-2021 for nautical activities in La Réunion. As I announced on a trip to the island, the state doubled its funding to €2 million in 2018. We are also implementing a strategy combining preventive fishing – seventy-six sharks were taken in 2018 and, since last November, a post-observation fishing experiment has been carried out in the areas not allowed to fish in the marine reserve – and a mechanism for monitoring new areas and alerts, co-financed with the communities concerned, since it was normal to return the sea to Réunionnais, especially to young people who wish to participate in nautical activities. I do not neglect economic development through tourism in Réunion; On the contrary, it must be supported, over and over again. I also do not neglect, as you know, the whole of what I call "blue growth". However, it is our duty to remind and hammer, wherever possible, that irresponsible behaviour must be condemned and that prohibited areas must be respected. Nautical activities cannot be carried out in Réunion without minimum safety precautions. Indeed, although it has decreased, the risk of sharks is still real: a 3,6-metre tiger shark was captured a week ago, on 22 January, in front of the famous left of Saint-Leu. It is therefore necessary to remind the inhabitants regularly to caution. This is why the prefectural decree regulating nautical activities and swimming will be renewed next February.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u12	Mr Jean-Luc Poudroux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u13	Minister, you have not answered me about any changes in the perimeter of the marine reserve. Do you intend to change the route to allow the renaissance of the seaside areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u14	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u15	I would remind you that protected areas represent a tremendous wealth for La Réunion. The protection of biodiversity is one of the battles that we must wage, and that is what we do, while working on prevention and creating a series of devices. It is necessary to return the sea to the young and old people of Reunion; That is why there are protected areas, and we will continue to preserve them through the Government's investments in communities. But we must also realize that the risk remains real and that, as you suggest, it is not necessarily linked to protected areas, one of the wealth of the overseas territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u16	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor to put his question, No. 546, on the infrastructure necessary for economic and social development in Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u17	Minister for Overseas Affairs, Mayotte is the last department in France, in the broadest sense of this word: it is the 101st poorest, with more than 84% of its population living below the poverty line; it is the youngest, with more than 50% of its inhabitants under the age of 17; the youth unemployment rate reaches ceilings, with more than 46%; or even, the rate of equipment in all fields is the lowest in France. Finally, social assistance is the lowest in the whole Republic, while we pay taxes like the others. This observation is that of the Prime Minister, who has recognized before the Senate that Mayotte is a deserted territory and that the challenge to be met is unheard of. However, the Mayotte plan decided in May 2018, which the Government has taken to every corner of the street, is mainly intended to deal with the migration invasion, since it is a matter of offering social housing to migrants whom you will regularize and a school to their children. On the other hand, this government plan does not address the sustainable development concerns of the territory, which requires several construction sites. For starters, the construction of the long runway at Pamandzi Airport – which you refuse us at the same time as you build one in Rodrigues with the help of AFD, the Agence française de développement – could revive tourism in Mayotte and promote mobility. The creation of a third dock at the port of Longoni would enable it to better position this infrastructure as one of the economic lungs of this sub-region of the South-West Indian Ocean. The university centre should also be transformed into a full university to train our youth. In addition, national roads should be upgraded to promote internal mobility. Etc. During the examination of the draft budget 2019, before the delegation to the overseas countries, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Action and Public Accounts stated that he had studied with you a plan for the development of structural infrastructure in Mayotte. But the budget is finally adopted without this plan. The same can be said of the budgets of the Maori communities, which are 60 per cent lower than those of other local authorities. My question is simple: why refuse to adopt a sustainable development plan for Mayotte, including the construction of these infrastructures and the catch-up of local government budgets? Madam Minister, should I remind you that Mayotte is also France?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u18	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u19	Mr Kamardine, you did not need to conclude your remarks in this way, because Mayotte, as I said and will come back to it, has my full attention, as indeed the whole of the overseas territories. I am and will continue to be the voice of the overseas people in this Government. Mayotte faces two challenges: the social emergency – as in other territories but with even greater difficulties – and the preparation of his future. The State's commitments have been renewed and formalized in the State's action plan for the future of Mayotte and its inhabitants: as a reminder, it is more than 3 billion euros in favour of this territory during the quinquennium; This is a major commitment of the Government. All the years of lack of support in Mayotte, however, cannot be caught up in this period, but we will do our utmost. The Prefect of Mayotte, a delegate of the Government, organizes regular steering committees to inform me of progress in the processing of cases, this plan being inter-ministerial. I would also point out that, since last October, the action plan has had the site transparenceoutremer-mayotte.gouv.fr, which allows all Mayotte citizens to see the steady progress in the implementation of the plan. I find this normal and I have taken the same decision for La Réunion. We owe transparency to all our citizens. The measures cover the whole scope of public action as well as the single budget line, which has been abounded to EUR 10 million since 2018. This high level of commitment to Mayotte will continue in 2019. In addition, the credits for school construction, which you mentioned, were increased in 2019 to improve coverage of the territory's needs. My question, and my anguish, is that all the announced appropriations made available are consumed, both in Mayotte and in other overseas territories. In addition, a significant part of the EIF – the exceptional investment fund – now worth €110 million, is dedicated to Mayotte. It's normal, because it's the territory that needs it the most. Then, since you have mentioned the state endowments, we are reviewing them to see how to take more account of the specificities of each territory. On the other hand, do not use an amalgam that would suggest to the Mahorese and Mahorese that the state would prefer the surrounding foreign islands in Mayotte. It is true that the Agence française de développement made a bank loan to the Rodrigues. This is part of our foreign policy: we support developing countries. But let us not let it be thought that this is done at the expense of the overseas territories, that it is a subsidy, whereas it is a loan. With the Government, I am at the side of Mayotte and all the overseas territories. We will fulfill the mission we have entrusted ourselves for the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u20	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u21	I note with regret that you are not answering my question about the launch of a sustainable development and catch-up plan for Mayotte. You're announcing a $3 billion plan for Mayotte, but it's actually only $1.3 billion. As far as Rodrigues is concerned, I do not oppose the communities between them and I do not act as an amalgam. Nevertheless, the environmental reasons you objected to refusing the extension of the runway from Pamandzi Airport to Mayotte could also have been invoked for the granting of a loan to Rodrigues through AFD. You could also have instructed AFD to finance this extension, as it would have helped to deal with social emergencies, particularly youth unemployment in Mayotte, which is about 46%.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u22	Mrs Bessot Ballot has the floor to put her question, No 533, on the storage of water.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u23	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, my question concerns the storage of water in anticipation of climate crises, which seriously affect so-called rural areas, particularly farms. We all know that in 2018 an episode of drought severely affected many parts of the territory, including eastern France, mainly the department of Haute-Saône. This episode has had serious consequences for people and for farmers, who have faced major difficulties, such as restrictions on the use of water or a lack of fodder to feed their farms. When I went to the farms on the Saône plains, I was able to see their difficult situation. In the face of this unprecedented crisis, the Government has urgently mobilized to help farmers who are suffering, including by providing them with visibility and cash to anticipate the winter. Of course, this has been welcomed with optimism. However, climate change is no longer to be demonstrated and, in the years to come, the territories will no longer be immune to new drought episodes. That is why we need to find ways of remedying these crisis situations, particularly for French agriculture, now. A 2015 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, FAO, already called for better policies and more investment, in particular to adapt agriculture to climate change, by improving water storage, wastewater collection and recycling, and research to build more resilient agricultural production systems for small farms. Indeed, the storage of water, for example in winter or in flood, would make it possible to use the available water in the event of new episodes of crisis. Minister, in addition to the urgent financial support measures for farmers, can you please tell us what measures the Government plans to take in the coming years to promote the storage of water and to put in place a real long-term water policy that responds to the agricultural, economic and environmental challenges of our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u24	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u25	Mrs Bessot Ballot, thank you for your very important question. The water problem is a global issue. It is well known that in many countries access to water is very complicated, whether it is drinking water or water for irrigation and agriculture. This year in particular, as you said, a terrible drought has affected much of France: the whole North and East of the country, especially your region. The Government had mobilized very early in the summer to respond to the concerns of herders, especially those who, owing to the lack of water, had to resort to their stock of fodder and straw. The problem is simply that this drought came late. The first cut lasted all summer until September and, in the end, new seedlings could not be raised. The State was present, the Government was present: I decided to convene four exceptional meetings of CNGRA, the National Committee for Agricultural Risk Management, and the next one will be held next month. We have responded to all the distress of farmers, mobilising more than 150 million euros and exempting them from the property tax on unbuilt properties. But that's not the point. Your question is more structural, namely how to ensure that we can meet these challenges. As you said, climate change is going to be an increasingly crucial issue. Farmers must respond and agriculture must evolve in its practices. It is already doing so: French agriculture currently consumes 30% less water than 15 years ago. Yet this is not enough. As I have already had the opportunity to explain on behalf of the Government, we cannot continue to watch the water fall from the sky for six months to search for it for the next six months. To give you a clear answer, Madam Member, in the framework of the water foundations, together with my colleague François de Rugy, I proposed, on the occasion of the presentation to the Government of the report of the Prefect Pierre-Étienne Bisch, the establishment of new water reservoirs, collines. We cannot build large dams, large reservoirs, as we have been able to do in the past. But it is essential that, within the framework of the territorial plans of priority actions of the water agencies, in agreement with farmers, associations and populations, we re-establish collinary reservoirs to capture the water from the sky when it falls and then return it during the summer when it is needed. We will ensure that water agencies have the financial means to do so. I really count on all the actors – parliamentarians, of course, as well as agricultural and associative actors – to consider together a new plan of water reservoirs efficient for irrigation and watering.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u26	Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u27	Indeed, it was necessary to extinguish the fire, in any case in order to cope with the episode of last spring. Structural reforms – multi-year, as it has become customary to say – are really important to meet the challenges ahead tomorrow. Agriculture must be able to accept these challenges in order to steer us all together towards a better future for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u28	The floor is open to Mrs Marie Guévenoux to put forward her question, No. 543, relating to the communal woods enclosed in the building.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u29	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to ask you about the management of communal timber, in particular those who, in many of the towns of Ile-de-France, are enclaved in the building, are asking for a very special management. The forest regime provides a legal framework to protect our forests from clearing, degradation and overexploitation. This regulation is essential for the 11371 communes with forest heritage. Communal woods represent a sixth of our forests, which is considerable, especially since they are places of walking and activity very much appreciated by our fellow citizens. The 2016-2020 Communal Forest Charter, signed in December 2016, clarifies the relationship between elected officials and the National Forestry Office, which is very positive, I would like to welcome. However, mayors are regularly confronted with a problem: the method of managing large forest areas does not always meet the needs of urban and peri-urban municipalities. Maintenance, cutting, securing and harvesting needs involve a profound change in the wood and are often at the expense of the habits of residents and walkers. It is impossible to manage communal woods as gardens, but it is also likely difficult to manage them as large forest spaces. I know that the National Forestry Office is already taking these specificities into account and is trying to diversify. But wouldn't it be possible, minister, to define the category of "locked wood in the building" better and to propose a very specific management method, which facilitates the NFB's work while taking better account of the needs of the populations, who are very attached to their communal woods?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u30	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u31	Mrs Guévenoux, this issue is a great deal of discussion in our forested territories. The NFB is responsible for the implementation of the forest regime in public forests, as you know, but I want to remind you precisely. It carries out this task on the basis of the planning documents which specify the different interventions in the forest and their phases. For a community's forest, the development document must obtain community approval before it is formally approved by the Regional Prefect. As you mentioned, this is a bit complex but indispensable for framing. A community's forest management document is consistent with the regional plan for sustainable land development and takes into account the ecological, economic and public uses of the forest. That is the important point of your question. In forests that are heavily frequented by the public, particularly in peri-urban areas, such as those you refer to, preservation and acceptance of management by the public are priorities for the NFB. A cut plate is therefore proposed, but not imposed, on the forest-owner community as part of the development document. I know that's a question right now. For these peri-urban forests, the NFB pays close attention to the public's commitment to forest harvesting, which is nevertheless necessary for the economic, environmental and climate vitality of forests, it is necessary to be clear and to have the courage to say so. The NFB's 2016-2020 target and performance contract provides for public awareness actions to improve understanding and ownership of the interest in timber harvesting. In addition, the municipality may also contract with the NFB, subject to compliance with the rules of the public order, for additional missions on certain parcels. The very specific case of logging management, according to criteria closer to forest parks than forests – a situation that occurs in these small, landlocked forests in urban areas – is a perfect illustration of this. Thus, both the existing regulations and the directions given to the NFB make it possible to take into account the specificities of forests, including small communal forests enclaved in the building, without the need to create a specific category of development for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u32	Mr Gilbert Collard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 561, on unfair competition with respect to agriculture in Garda.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u33	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, my question concerns a subject which you are well aware of and which you have already been concerned about, in answer to one of my written questions, which I thank you for: the unfair technical competition experienced by farmers and representatives of the wine sector in Garda, and more generally those in Occitanie. This unfair competition relates first of all to plant protection products, some of whose imported goods are wasted while their use is prohibited in France. I think essentially, as you understand it, of Spanish wines, which benefit from the bans on French products by infringing them. Unfair competition also lies in the misleading labelling of certain products marketed by large retailers. In the Gard, we see Spanish wines with labels evoking the most beautiful regions of Camargue or Gard! This is a deception, not to say a scam on the product, which has nothing poetic. Unfair competition is finally taking place at the social level, with the reform of seasonal workers, resulting from the latest law on the financing of social security. Although my question seems simple, it is difficult, I know, to answer it in the current context: what financial, legal or technical means can the Government put in place to combat the adverse consequences of this unfair, technical or legal competition, which leads the people of the workers of the Gard land to very great anger?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u34	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u35	Thank you for your question, Mr. Collard, because it will allow me to clarify the position of the Government. We recognize that unfair competition and tax and social dumping are real. I said it in this House during the debate on the finance bill, and I repeat it without difficulty this morning. On the other hand, I do not know whether the Government will provide the answer you want because our positions diverge. For the Government, solving the problem requires a more integrated, stronger Europe, a Europe that harmonizes social policies. If Europe were to break up, competition would be even more unfair, know that. That is why social models need to be improved. With regard to social competition and seasonal workers, reference had been made to abolishing the scheme for casual workers seeking employment – TODE. After listening to the majority, I insisted that this measure be reintroduced. I can tell you that the balance sheet is largely positive for French agriculture as a whole. Garda winemaking, in particular, will finally earn an additional 90,000 euros in 2019. In addition, the many wine growers in your region, who employ permanent workers, are winning as the wage burden has fallen. The reduction in the use of plant protection products, which you mentioned, is essential, as is the use of antibiotics in livestock farming. Farmers, regardless of their orientation, are now moving in this direction for a number of reasons. First, it is an irreversible societal demand: our fellow citizens are asking us for better quality products, containing fewer plant protection products. Secondly, farmers, who live in the countryside on land, know that much of our soil is depleted, no longer absorbs nitrogen and no longer allows crop rotation. So we have to go in that direction. Of course, this can lead to a difficulty: seeing imported products compete with ours. Thus, when, three years ago, France banned dimethoate, cherries could no longer be treated in the Drôme, as in your home, Mr. MP, while Spanish cherries, treated with this product, entered France. That is all we need to care about. Yesterday, in Brussels, at the Council of Agriculture Ministers, we referred to the reduction in the use of plant protection products, as well as to a different organisation of the CAP, the common agricultural policy. With regard to the labelling of wine products, the situation you describe for some imported products is unacceptable. We raised this subject yesterday and, almost unanimously, the Council of Ministers for Agriculture refused the entry of new forms of wine. The European Union, the Ministers of Agriculture and the European Commission will further strengthen their vigilance on this point, which is a deception for the consumer. We need to defend our culture, our viticulture, our agriculture, our market gardening and our arboriculture, and we will give ourselves even more resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u36	Mr Gilbert Collard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u37	Minister, I listened with great interest to your answer, which contained very wise and highly admissible arguments. However, we are obliged to recognize, if we have the diploma of the BSP – common sense peasant – that today's Europe, while waiting for what it will give tomorrow, makes it easy to swindle our farmers and wine growers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u38	Mr David Habib has the floor to put his question, No. 556, concerning the reclassification of communes in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques to mountain areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u39	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, first of all I welcome your answer to the question of water storage. We have waited a long time for an answer of this nature. However, I wish you courage to implement this decision, with the majority that is yours... I will now ask you about another agricultural issue which has shown the bankruptcy of this majority: that of the classification of agricultural areas in a disadvantaged position and the special situation of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques. In this case, which you know perfectly well – no need to draw a drawing – the Government considered it normal to classify Biarritz, Saint-Jean-de-Luz and Anglet into less-favoured areas, without adding the hillsides of the Béarn. Look for the mistake! Eighty-one communes in the department of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques must therefore be removed from the classification as a simple disadvantaged area, of which seventy-six are working with CAP beneficiaries. A total of 344 farms are affected. For the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, the total annual loss is estimated at 1.86 million euros, representing an average loss of 5,410 euros per holding. First, Mr.Minister, could you elaborate on the alternative plan that prefectural services and farmers have developed? If adopted, this would provide a real response to the current anxiety of farmers and elected representatives, concerned about the fate of these farms. To go quickly, could you confirm to us the announcements that will be made by the departments of the Ministry of Agriculture or the prefecture of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques regarding the accompaniment, authorisations and derogations to the classification? Secondly, could you clarify the classification in mountain areas of certain communes now classified as a simple disadvantaged area? The number of these municipalities is the subject of debate. Knowing that it is reduced every week, will they be seven, five or four? I would like to hear from you on this point, Minister, to finally know when the Government intends to make the ranking known, for the rest of the Hexagon as well as for the Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u40	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u41	Mr Habib, you can always say that the government of Édouard Philippe has shown its bankruptcy, but I do not believe that this is correct, nor that your department's municipalities have been the subject of favouritism. For simple disadvantaged areas, zoning and eligibility conditions are confirmed and validated by the European Commission. It is planned to classify 14210 communes as simple less-favoured areas, compared with 10429 in the current zoning, so close to 4000 additional communes will benefit from the scheme. As often happens, those who win do not thank – they do not have to – but we hear more those who lose. However, the ranking was not carried out at the head of the client, but according to criteria, which I do not intend to detail because my speech would become too technical. My concern now goes to the farms of the 1293 communes leaving the zoning, which a transition plan will accompany. I have asked my administration to follow this file as closely as possible. An audit will also be carried out, partly financed by the Ministry, with an important help from the local and regional authorities concerned. A few weeks ago, on your territory, the hillsides of the Béarn, I announced for the first time that degressive aid will be paid to all these farms in 2019 and 2020. It will reach 80% in 2019 and 40% in 2020 of ICHN's 2014-2019 reference amount, the natural disability compensation. Both elected officials and farmers seemed to appreciate the scheme. Similarly, we will try to help them with additional agri-environmental and climate measures, as part of the major investment plan, the IPF. My objective is indeed to support these communes and farmers, not that they suffer a double penalty. In this context and in your territory, Mr.Le Béarn, they will be really helped. With regard to your request for classification in mountain areas, again, the changes are limited. Six of the seven municipalities mentioned – Cardesse, Cuqueron, Gan, Lasseube, Monein and Saint-Faust – meet the conditions. I have ensured that this ranking can come into force as of the 2019 aid campaign. So you can reassure these recipients, as the department will. As for the last commune, Bosdarros, it does not fulfil the conditions allowing its classification in its entirety. After your request, I asked my services to assess whether a partial classification of the municipality was possible. I cannot answer you right now, but, given this complementary work and subject to the results, it is likely that entry into this ranking will only be possible as of the 2020 campaign. Finally, I have noted your request for the implementation of the major agro-environmental project and I am working in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u42	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your attention to these matters. With regard to the municipality of Bosdarros, I am sure that we will be able to reach an agreement with you and its mayor, Jean-Pierre Lannes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u44	Mr Stéphane Trompille has the floor to put his question, No. 537, on space defence.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u45	As you know, the military occupation of space began in 1960 with the sending of spy satellites as part of the space race during the Cold War. Since then, some 20 countries have invested space by sending satellites into the Earth's orbit. France, in particular, has acquired not only a launch capacity through the European Ariane programme, but also a satellite production capacity, in particular through the Airbus Defence and Space programme. As the recent conflicts in the Near and Middle East have shown, satellites are now indispensable tools of military intelligence: any large-scale military operation requires their input, in order to identify and locate potential threats. Beyond the military aspect, many acts of our daily life depend on satellites – air and maritime transport, telephone, television, internet or banking transactions. If our satellites were attacked, all these elements would become dysfunctional, causing real chaos. More than ever, space is a central geostrategic issue, marked by the appearance of new actors, whether they are private actors such as Space X or new major state actors such as China, which, in carrying out the third alumni of history, reminds us that it has the capacity to militarize space. These various geostrategic developments remind us that outer space is an area as vulnerable as it is accessible to malicious actions, de facto exposing States and their people. Faced with the first-rate strategic interest of the occupation and security of space, and with respect for the 1967 United Nations Space Treaty, which laid the legal basis for a non-bellicistic exploration of space, defending our civilian and military satellites in this place represents a real challenge of national and European sovereignty. New means are in fact needed for the French army. It is in this sense that the Minister of the Armed Forces stated on June 21, 2018: "We must be able to invest in space more than we do, in order to be able to monitor this space and prevent it from becoming a space of major confrontations. » As an author, together with Olivier Becht, of an information report on the defence space sector, presented to the Defence Committee on 15 January, I ask you, on the one hand, what are the avenues envisaged by the Government in order to guarantee the autonomy of space assets for the French army and, on the other hand, what will be the major future projects for the defence space sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u46	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u47	As you pointed out, Mr Trompille, France's strategic autonomy in outer space must be at the heart of our concerns. This is why a very important effort is devoted to this in the military programming law: it is thus 3.6 billion euros that will be invested between 2019 and 2025 to renew our entire space component, including the launch of eight satellites. But we need to go further, as the threats in space accumulate and the dependence of our societies and our daily lives on this environment is growing. At the request of the President of the Republic, Florence Parly, Minister of Armed Forces, initiated work to define a space defence strategy. This work has now been completed and its conclusions, which have been handed over to the President of the Republic, are structured around three axes: a comprehensive system of space monitoring, in partnership with other European countries; capabilities to support global operations but also autonomous action in space; specific governance, including the creation of an ad hoc command, and the legal framework necessary to implement our ambitions. This strategy seems to be the best response to those who would like to attack us. It will also allow France to retain its full position in the leading platoon of space powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u48	Mrs Isabelle Florennes, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 554, on the reform of the status of condominiums.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u49	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of the Armed Forces, a circular issued on January 7 of this year lists the various measures contained in the so-called "ELAN" law – on housing, planning and digital development – and specifies, among them, those which are of immediate application and those which require regulations. We now have very precise information on the deployment of the measures and, consequently, on the implementation of the law. However, it is a subject whose contours are not yet very clear: the reform, by ordinance, of the status of co-ownership. The Act provides several elements to address the very broad issue of the renovation of certain condominiums. I am thinking in particular of simplifying the so-called "ORCOD" procedure – operations to requalify degraded condominiums. In this regard, I would like to point out that almost 15% of condominiums would present or be likely to present a danger in view of their state of old age – the subject is unfortunately still relevant. But this is only part of the answer. Indeed, a fundamental reform of French condominiums requires a transformation of their status. The ELAN Act contributes in part to this, since its article 215 empowers the Government to make two orders. The first, which distinguishes several co-ownership schemes, is expected in November 2019. The second, which provides for the creation of a co-ownership code, is expected to be adopted one year later, in November 2020. It's about the latter that I'm wondering. According to the ELAN Act: "The Government may... make such changes as may be necessary to ensure respect for the hierarchy of norms and the consistency of the drafting of such texts, to harmonize the rule of law, to remedy any errors and to repeal the provisions which have become irrelevant. » This clarification does not dispel the shadow of the content of the future order, Madam Secretary of State. The drafting of a code of co-ownership does not seem to be possible under constant law. Thus, there is still the question of what changes the Government might make. Could you clarify the Government's intentions in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u50	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u51	As you said, Mrs Florennes, section 215 of the ELAN Act empowers the Government to make two ordinances to reform the law of condominiums and then codify it. The most important and most anticipated order is that which will amend the provisions governing the status of co-ownership of built-up buildings. Its main objectives will be: to redefine the scope of application of the 1965 Act so that the status of condominiums can be adapted to buildings, in particular according to their size; simplify the way in which resolutions on the work are adopted to facilitate decision-making; improve the financial management of condominiums in order to better anticipate future work and thus contribute to the maintenance of the housing stock. Particular attention will be paid to a concern that all the cities of France are experiencing: degraded condominiums. The Government wishes to strengthen the tools for preventing the degradation of condominiums, the majority of which are condominiums, by improving the efficiency of the work fund created by the so-called "ALUR" law for access to housing and a renovated urban development. As the clearance period is twelve months, the Government will have to issue this first order by 22 November 2019, with its entry into force delayed until 1 June 2020 in order to allow the Parliament to debate it. The work, which includes stakeholder consultations, is ongoing. In accordance with the ELAN Act, codification work is carried out in parallel in order to restore to the law of co-ownership the clarity and accessibility that it has lost as a result of the reforms. The succession of reforms accompanied by a diversification of the sources of the law of co-ownership – the law of 10 July 1965 and its implementing decree as well as other provisions scattered in the regulatory part of the code of construction and housing or totally autonomous – has made this matter too complex for co-owners. Don't worry, the future co-ownership code is not meant to change the co-ownership regime. The amendments will be made in the context of the first order, on which a broad consultation, with which you will obviously be associated, will be conducted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u52	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u53	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, for this clarification. Indeed, I believe that the Government's broad focus on parliamentary discussion is interesting and necessary. Simplification of decision-making in condominiums is also welcome, as the situation is problematic, particularly in the Paris region.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u54	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to put his question, No. 560, on the reform of high schools and the baccalaureate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u55	My question is to Mr Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education and Youth, and not to the Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces, who is responsible for veterans. It concerns the reform of high schools and the baccalaureate. It was written by teachers of the Lycée Jean-Guéhenno de Fougères and addressed to the minister. I'll read it to you. One of the vocations of the school of the Republic is to offer every citizen the opportunity to overcome his social condition by providing him with support and quality education. In doing so, national education gives him the chance to emancipate intellectually and materially by multiplying his professional opportunities. The Lycée Jean-Guéhenno de Fougères is a high school of general, technological and vocational education, which has the same ambition for its students, regardless of the path they have chosen. The current reform calls into question this ambition. Currently, at Jean-Guéhenno High School, about 50% of professional bachelors are enrolled in BTS, and the proportion has increased over the last three years. This integration is promoted by the link between baccalaureate pro and BTS, focusing in particular on the general teachings common to the two fields – English, French and mathematics. The reduction in the number of hours of general education offered by the Government, whether in CAP – minus 40% – or in professional baccalaureate – minus 20%, puts at risk the access of vocational high school students to higher education, due to the lack of sufficient training in relation to the requirements in BTS. Instead of helping high school students make a choice, this reform closes their doors and condemns them to suffer, more than choose, a path that did not fit them. The question put to the Minister of National Education is: how, by drastically reducing the hourly volume of education in vocational secondary schools, can one imagine training future professionally accomplished citizens, especially in basins where many pupils come from disadvantaged socio-occupational categories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u56	I would remind you that the Government is appointing one of its members to respond on its behalf. The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u57	I'll try to answer you clearly, Mr. Benoit. Moreover, at the Ministry of Armed Forces, I am also in charge of military high schools; I am therefore also interested in teaching and training young people. The Government's ambition is to make the career path a path of excellence, attractive and intrusive. It is a matter of building, with the 70000 vocational high school teachers, the heads of institutions and all the partners, a professional high school at the forefront of training in the professions of the future, which means reviving the pride of learning a profession. The new timetables for general and vocational education, alternating with periods of vocational training, are intended to increase the quality of apprenticeships and improve teaching conditions. Thus, the implementation of renovated and ambitious general education – and not diminished, contrary to what you seem to say – and diversified pedagogical modalities aims to improve the link between general and vocational education. This is the case, for example, with co-intervention: a general-education teacher and a vocational-education teacher are associated in the same class. Thanks to the reinforced support of the students, the reform will consolidate fundamental achievements in mathematics and French, customize the training paths, make the learning more progressive and transmit professional knowledge adapted to the jobs of tomorrow. The introduction of vocational integration modules and further education modules, at the end of the year, will support students in the development of their post-baccalaureate project, in particular towards the BTS. The reduction in the hourly volume of students, much less than your estimates, promotes the quality of learning. The current volume of thirty-four and a half hours, close to the weekly working time in France, did not guarantee this quality. France certainly has the highest hourly volume but without being able to compare satisfactory integration rates. It is therefore a matter of improving quality by offering professional learning that is more suitable for young people and more able to enable them to continue their studies.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u58	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u59	We will have the opportunity to return to this reform. I address the President of the National Assembly: the Government organizes itself as it wishes...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u60	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u61	... but it is a word that should be placed at the top of the public debate at the moment: respect. We must respect the French, respect the deputies. The least we can do, Mr President, would have been for the Minister of National Education, with whom a secretary of state also works, to inform the Member of his unavailability to respond and to apologize. I do not accept that the Secretary of State for Veterans is required to answer a question that high school teachers have taken the time to write – the Member is here only the messenger. We'll get back to it. Beyond the reform of the baccalaureate and high schools, it is the question of how this House works.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u62	I would like to remind you, my dear colleague, that a decision of the Constitutional Council in 1964 clearly determined the issue from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u63	Pff! The debate is closed!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u64	However, I take note of your protest.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u65	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor to put his question, No. 539, on the intermittents of the show.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u66	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of the Armed Forces, you will not be surprised if my question is asked by the elected member of a constituency who is pleased to welcome every year, in Avignon, the largest performing arts festival in the world. A new round of negotiations between the social partners was scheduled to open on 28 November to reform the specific regime of intermittent entertainment, but the unions refused to start discussions before they had in hand the assessment of the effects of the 2016 agreement. During his 2017 campaign, candidate Macron defended the show's intermittent regime, claiming that the 2016 reform was the right one. After a social movement, the latter had endorsed the principle of 507 hours worked over 12 months, compared with 10 previously, in return for savings measures, including a reduction in the ceiling on the accumulation of wages and compensation and a free of paid leave. In the broader context of the ongoing negotiations on unemployment insurance, the social partners are asked to identify avenues to achieve savings of between EUR 3 billion and EUR 3.9 billion. For employers' representatives, the change in the system of intermittents is one of these avenues. In contrast, on Tuesday, December 11, the CGT-Spectacle filed unlimited notice of strike effective December 18. Candidate Macron had also indicated that the status of intermittents was not unemployment but "the ecosystem of cultural creation". His program included "sustaining and adapting the performance's status as an intermittent." The trade unions and employers' organizations in the entertainment industry officially confirmed on Tuesday 22 January that they would not renegotiate, as planned, the 2016 agreement on intermittance. The expert committee responsible for assessing its effects has been set up, but it will not be able to reach its conclusions until autumn 2019, when the social partners in the sector committed themselves to resume negotiations. Even though this summer's festivals seem to be preserved as a result of this decision opening a waiting period, what actions does the Government intend to take to prevent us from ending up in the fall, as in 2016, in a situation of blocking that could lead to the cancellation of many performances and artistic events?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u67	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u68	I will answer, as precisely as possible, this question to the Minister of Culture. As you said, Mr Cesarini, by a scoping letter sent on 25 September 2018, the Government invited the social partners to renegotiate the rules governing unemployment insurance. MEDEF then indicated that it wanted the economic effort requested by the Government to include the regime of intermittentity as well. The social partners of the show branches argued that the agreement of 28 April 2016 on unemployment compensation in the show branches, signed unanimously by employers' and employees' organisations, was a good agreement. We, too, believe that this is a good agreement, which has made it possible to restore a calm social climate, through the search for a balance between the necessary savings and the legitimate demand for professional security in the field of entertainment. The social partners had then identified areas of savings, which have been implemented and which we can welcome. The expert committee set out in the Labour Code has been meeting since September 2018, under the chairmanship of André Gauron, to assess the impact of the 2016 reform, with the support of Pôle Emploi and UNEDIC. At this stage, only a progress report was submitted on January 17. It is necessary to await the collection of all data for the 2018 financial year, which are not yet available, so that the expert committee can present a reliable first assessment. The social partners representing all the film production, audiovisual and performance professions have conducted negotiations on the specific rules for the compensation of artists and performing technicians. They agreed once again unanimously a few days ago, on 21 January, to sign an amendment to the 2016 agreement. They also pledged to continue working with the Expert Committee to allow for a good preparation of the negotiations. The Government certainly wants to preserve the balance found with the 2016 agreement and recalls the importance of the statute of intermittance, both for the fight against insecurity and for cultural outreach. Thus, the national fund for sustainable employment in the show, the FONPEPS, was extended by decree in December 2018 and was even enriched by a measure relating to lyrical artists. We know the importance that the social partners attach to the FONPEPS scheme, and that is why the Minister for Culture launched a consultation with the social partners represented in the National Council of Performing Professions a few days ago in order to better adapt the measures to the needs of the sector and to ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of this fund. As you can see, we are attentive to all this work. I can assure you that the situation of intermittent entertainment is of great importance to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u69	Mr Jean-François Cesarini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u70	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. As you said, culture is important for personal emancipation and international outreach. Moreover, we are not saying enough, it has a real impact on our economy: the money invested in culture returns to the real economy. It is therefore not only a factor of emancipation, but also of growth. The endorsement you mentioned has indeed been signed unanimously, but it still needs to be validated by professional unions and the Government. Let us finally try to perpetuate the status of the intermittents of the show, as the candidate Macron had wished.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u71	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to put her question, No. 558, on the transfer of water and sanitation skills.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u72	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of the Armed Forces, as you know, the NOTRE law – the new territorial organisation of the Republic – has made it mandatory to transfer water and sanitation skills from the municipalities to the communities of communes by 2020 at the latest. This measure, dogmatic and far from the ground, met with strong opposition from local elected officials, especially in rural areas. In this context, the Government has set up a trans-party working group of deputies and senators, who unanimously requested the postponement of the application of the NOTRE Act on this point. The Parliament then took up the matter and passed Act No. 2018-702 of 3 August 2018, which provides for derogations for the transfer of these powers, from 2020 to 2026. Unfortunately, the circular issued at the end of August 2018 does not take into account this political agreement, since the territories in which the power of water production has been taken over by the community of communes – often at the request of the State, to allow the abolition of water production unions – will not be able to use this derogation to retain the power of distribution at communal level. In rural areas, the distribution of water has remained a direct responsibility of the municipality, which guarantees the population a community service, particularly for troubleshooting and rapid detection of leaks, and this service is often provided on a part-time basis by a municipal official or an elected official. The transfer to the community of communes will necessarily result in increases in public expenditure – what about the 20 or 30% working time of the municipal agent who exercises this competence for the commune? – and less responsiveness to citizens' demands. It's unfair and incomprehensible. The elected representatives have the impression that the Government's political speech has been flouted and that no account has been taken of the ups and downs of the ground. Therefore, would it not be wise, in the context of the great national debate, to go back to the circular of the end of August, in order to respect the terms of the political agreement reached with the deputies and senators who had invested in the working group?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u73	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u74	Madame de La Raudière, you are raising an important problem, which has very practical consequences in the intercommunities. The law of 3 August 2018 aims precisely to reflect a very pragmatic and balanced position. It does not call into question the mandatory nature of the transfer of water and sanitation skills to the communities of communes, decided in the framework of the NOTRe Act. It takes into account the concerns of the elected representatives on the subject, reserving the possibility of a postponement to the communities of communes, since it is the latter which mostly cover our rural and mountain areas, where the elected representatives stressed the need for additional time to organize the transfer. It is therefore not a question of going back to the NOTRE law, but of giving a little more time for this transfer to be carried out under the best conditions. Article 1 of the Act introduces a minority blocking system: municipalities have the possibility to postpone the compulsory transfer of water and sanitation skills until 1 January 2026 if 25 % of the member municipalities representing 20 % of the intercommunal population oppose this transfer before 1 July 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u75	That's not the point of my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u76	In clear terms, this means that communities of communes that can benefit from the power of postponement to 2026 are those that do not exercise water and sanitation skills at all. Where water production has already been transferred at Community level, the blocking minority system will not apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u77	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u78	No, that's not what the text says. Consequently, the use of the terms "including partially" in the ministerial instruction of 28 August 2018 is fully in line with the law passed by the National Assembly. The Government is therefore not considering any changes to the investigation. I would point out that the existence of this right of opposition should not lead the municipalities to give up preparing a plan for the inter-communalisation of competences. Indeed, the purpose of our action is to support the pooling of the resources necessary for the resumption of investments, which have become urgent in certain territories, as well as for better joint control and greater coherence of our networks. As for the transfer of 30 or 40 % of working time, it does not pose a problem: as you know, the municipal agent in question will be able to carry on the local work he was doing in his commune once he has been transferred to intercommunality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u79	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u80	I can hear you, Madam Secretary of State, because I can read the circular. However, in the light of the law, the position of the Government might well have been different, and the wording of the circular could have been different. Where there is a water supply union, municipalities may retain the power of distribution. However, since these trade unions were abolished, at the request of the State, in certain territories, they were obliged to transfer the power of distribution, whereas the elected representatives did not want to do so and the blocking minority provided for by the law was potentially reunited. What you have said about the 30 % working time of the competent communal agent is correct, but that is not what will happen in real life, in the field: after three to four years, you know very well, a public service delegation will be established, which will result in an increase in public expenditure. Above all, the wishes of the elected representatives have not been listened to or respected, in my opinion, the trans-party agreement, which concerned the introduction of a derogation whatever the case may be, since the desired minority would be brought together in the Community Council. That is what I regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u81	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to speak on his question No 547 on the presence of banks in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u82	Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, I echo the concern and dissatisfaction of my fellow citizens with the large number of bank closures in rural areas. In my riding of Meurthe-et-Moselle alone, many closures have just taken place: in Cirey-sur-Vezouze – where there were still three banks – in Badonviller, Blainville-sur-l'Eau and Blâmont. Now, in some communities, there is no even a ticket distributor. These closures have a direct impact on businesses, tourists and residents. The latter are forced to travel miles to remove liquid, which hinders local consumption and the development of short circuits. These closures, together with the disappearance of shops and various services, also contribute to the feeling of abandonment felt very strongly in the territories concerned and clearly manifested by the movement of yellow vests. I had already drawn the Government's attention to this issue last July with a written question which unfortunately did not receive a response. The issue was debated in the Senate last November, but the proposed solution, "cashback," is not up to the stakes and expectations; It's just a mistake. Access to cash is an issue of territorial equality. What measures does the Government intend to take in this regard? It would be a matter of ensuring a bank presence, at least one ticket distributor, in each of the former rural cantonal capitals, according to the criteria of proximity to be defined, in order to preserve the quality of life, the local consumption and the attractiveness of our rural territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u83	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u84	As you said, and you are right, Mr Bazin, access to banking services, particularly cash, is an important component of territorial cohesion. The example of your territory, which you have quoted, is eloquent. There are, however, certain factual elements to be recalled. The network of French bank agencies and ticket distributors is one of the most important and densest in Europe. The Bank of France is in the process of mapping the accessibility of these distributors. The vast majority of the French population has access to a ticket distributor or a relay via a merchant, at the cost of a short journey, much shorter than that required to access, for example, a gas station. However, some banks have undertaken to reduce the number of distributors, you have just recalled. This is usually a rationalisation in urban areas, where customers are increasingly using dematerialised services or using means of payment embedded on a card or on their telephone, and these are intended to represent an increasing share of future transactions. However, there are still customers who need cash. The Government, together with the Bank of France, continues to ensure continued access to cash. There are many initiatives – you mentioned them – to improve rural areas' access to cash, in addition to ATMs, which are already not the main source of cash distribution in many countries. The cashback relay points thus allow a bank's customers to withdraw cash from a merchant, who then acts as a bank agent, through an agreement with an institution. The development of these banking services is also proposed by private actors, such as the buralists, whose inventiveness in recent years has made it possible to increase the number of solutions. More and more places, according to more and more flexible arrangements, are in the process of generalizing, in France, the availability of species outside the distributor. Under these conditions, creating an obligation to set up banks does not appear legally possible, proportionate or necessary. Such an obligation should be subject to financial compensation from the State budget in order not to run counter to the principle of equality before public charges. This would involve budgetary costs. Above all, this would have far too much of a boon effect, given the current capillary nature of the network as it exists. We rely on private solutions. It will be very important, thanks in particular to the mapping carried out by the Banque de France, to ensure the reality of the new availability arrangements in the coming months and years, especially in your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u85	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u86	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply, which I do not think is sufficient. You did not mention the possibility for the municipalities to finance the maintenance of an ATM. However, this is the request made by the last bank present in the municipality of Cirey-sur-Vezouze. However, this solution would place a certain cost of operation on the community that would not be offset, but also a very significant burden when the distributor is to be renewed. A bill discussed in the Senate has led the House to favour the use of FISAC, the intervention fund for services, crafts and commerce, in order to finance the operation. However, as you know, Budget 2019 provides for the sunsetting of this fund. You also mentioned the possibility of developing "cashback". When the last agency in the commune of Badonviller closed last year, the bank concerned entered into an interesting partnership with a buralist, except that residents who are not its customers cannot withdraw money. In addition, some traders are not equipped with payment terminals, sometimes because of their cost, but also because they are in a white area and do not have a digital connection sufficient to equip themselves. With the emergence of a "zero cash" company, isn't there a risk of greater vulnerability in the event of computer failure or network bugs? You're in a good position to know. Moreover, is there no risk of aggravating the mismanagement of the budget of certain vulnerable households? The rural territories abandoned by the banks expect more support from the state. Their inhabitants hope for concrete answers for equitable access to cash. These must be developed, regardless of the bank of origin of each. We really need solutions on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u87	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to put her question, No 555, on the plastic industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u88	My question was to the Minister of Economy and Finance, to whom, next time, I will ask a question about digital... But I have no doubt, Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, that you have worked with him to respond to the concern and disappointment of the plastics industry. Following the provisions, of which I do not dispute the merits, the measures taken in the EGAlim law – for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector – for the suppression of plastics intended for food products, the plastic industry is very concerned about the fate of these products. The first observation they made to me concerns the method. Would he not have agreed to compare the various alternative products, including plastic products, to ensure that the environmental balance of this law will be that sought? I agree with the comparative approach of the methods and regret that it could not be implemented. I wanted to share with you this reproach. The second observation concerns the substance. Far from being recycled, 40% of plastics are buried in the soil. This is a major problem when you know the lifetime of the buried plastic. Only 20% of plastics are recycled. Industrialists in the industry are asking for recycling to be able to use recycled plastic and to set up processes. They need political impetus, including from the Government, to help them structure the sector. This is what happened when a recycling of electronic and electrical equipment was created, thanks to eco-participation. The concern about the future of plastic is real. Industrialists feel that it is through recycling that they will be able to find processes for the future, but to do so they need recycled material, which is not the case at the moment. I would like to draw the Government's attention to this point. What measures are envisaged to speed up the implementation of the recycling chain, particularly plastic recycling, and to accompany the measures we have taken on sustainable development?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u89	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u90	As you pointed out, Mrs Untermaier, the EGAlim Act provides for the restriction or prohibition of plastics for certain food uses. The Government pays close attention to the industrial impacts of the bans provided for in this or future European legislation, which in some areas will be even more restrictive. Here's the real question: how can this transformation be sustained by plastics manufacturers? I will come back to each of the points you mentioned. We are all fully engaged, as you are, in the policy of ecological transition. We must therefore be able to bring complex solutions by accompanying the industrial transformation of the territory, as well as that of the industrial tool, which is to make it more compatible with a philosophy of the circular economy. As part of the Government's road map for the circular economy, a large number of economic actors have committed themselves to incorporating recycled plastics into products, reaching a 100 per cent rate of incorporation of recycled plastics in 2025. To achieve this, the production tool must be transformed. These first commitments will allow the doubling of the volume of recycled plastic implemented, reaching up to 600,000 tonnes of recycled plastic annually. The processing tool will be partly the contract of the strategic committee for waste processing and recovery, which the state has just signed with the profession and the trade unions. This document commits the recycling industry through several structuring projects, in particular to optimize the end-of-life of products, the sorting and recovery of plastic waste, support the incorporation of recycling raw materials into finished products, strengthen expertise and information on product recycling and ecodesign, and develop solid recovery fuels in order to value them. To this end, it is absolutely necessary to create a link between plastics and recycling industries. To be able to recycle 100% of plastics in 2025, they must find a junction point. This is the whole stake of the contract that we have just signed with them and of the new involvement of the industrial actors at their side. The texts for the implementation of the road map on the circular economy are being prepared. We will take into account the issues of economic and industrial transition. Finally, as I mentioned in the introduction, the future European Single-Use Plastics Directive is in the final stages of validation. It will also provide for new prohibitions, and it will be very important that the EGAlim law does not over-transpose it or sub-transpose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u91	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u92	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your detailed answer. It is often the case that a ban takes place immediately or almost immediately and that the accompanying arrangements for industrialists are far too long. This problem of temporality must be taken into account. I urge you to do so because the industrialists are extremely worried. Far from referring to their difficulties by firms which are highly job-providing, we must move them in the same direction as we, by accompanying them.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u93	I call Mrs Tolmont to speak on her question, No 557 on TE Connectivity.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u94	Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, I welcome your presence, but allow me to regret the absence of Mr Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance, whom I have seized from 11 January on the subject which brings me to you, by a letter which has not yet been answered. On January 10, the employees of TE Connectivity, the leader of the connected industry, located in Allonnes, in my constituency, learned brutally and against all expectations, the implementation of a PES – a plan to safeguard employment – and the elimination of 140 jobs out of a workforce of 161, which let us consider eventually the closure of the site and the relocation of activities in Poland and Texas. However, since 2018 in particular, this company has been presenting very positive indicators of activity: an order book that augurs for good results, the maintenance and expansion of many contracts with transport leaders, such as SNCF, RATP and Alstom, and the development of innovative products in partnership with major companies such as Siemens and Kawasaki. In addition, its financial health has been consolidated by recent hirings in CSDs and CDIs, as well as the recruitment of temporary workers, and by a recent investment of more than EUR 1 million in the machining sector. All these grounds of hope for the employees, who were still recently held in the belief that their company, whose visionaries were green, had finally recovered on track. The announcement of this plan is therefore totally incomprehensible, even scandalous. This seems to be more of a strategy for optimising profits, coming from an American group that employs 90,000 people worldwide and has chosen, I say, to set up its head office in Switzerland. I would add that this group has benefited from the support of local authorities – the Pays de la Loire region, the Sarthe department, Le Mans Métropole – in the amount of 700000 euros. Beyond the fate of the company, this closure represents the loss of a know-how that makes this site a pole of excellence recognized by the major contractors, quite dissatisfied with this relocation. What urgent measures does the Government intend to take to support the interests of TE Connectivity employees and to preserve the company's know-how? What are you planning to do so that such companies will finally stop acting as predators and respond to the communities that have supported them with their decisions to relocate and eliminate jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u95	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u96	Mrs Tolmont, Bruno Le Maire, who was unable to be present this morning, apologizes and asked me to answer you in her place. You have often addressed the well-known situation of TE Connectivity, which we talk about regularly. This one, as you said, has engaged on its site of Allonnes, in the Sarthe, a plan to safeguard employment concerning 140 of the 161 jobs, which, unfortunately, certainly announces the complete closure of the site. You have also rightly asked us about the aid that has been paid to him. What is more unacceptable in fact that such a closure, while the state and the communities have mobilized to finance a beautiful project like that of 2018 and to accompany it in the long term? I would like to tell you that we regret with you that the TE Connectivity company, which has received local support and that of economic partners located in the region and across France, has made the choice to terminate its manufacturing activities in France and relocate them to Poland. We can only regret it, but we have no means of action to condemn it. However, we can mobilize on the conditions under which this closure takes place. The Minister of Economy and Finance has asked the Ministry of Labour's departments to exercise the utmost vigilance with regard to strict compliance by society with social procedures, paying particular attention to the quality of accompanying measures for the employees concerned. You already know for meeting them, the teams, on the spot, are very mobilized. With regard to the EUR 700000 spatial planning premium, which had been paid in 2008, as you pointed out, a procedure is under way. The company's failure to comply with its obligations has been noted, and the State is fully mobilized to ensure the fullest possible reimbursement of the sums paid, including to those communities that have already renounced a share of this debt in view of the investments that the company will have to make in the context of its relocation. The two sites in Arjowiggins, for their part, are in judicial reform, the news reminds us regularly. The local representatives of the State shall make every effort to identify buyers as soon as possible. The only hope is to find a high-quality buyer, a condition for maintaining jobs in the territory. To that end, we are fully mobilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u97	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u98	Thank you for your answer, Secretary of State. Action is currently being taken on the Arjowiggins site. However, with regard to TE Connectivity, the Government admits impotence. When I return to my constituency, I will have to tell the 140 employees, who rely on us, that the Government is helpless in the face of large groups that are destroying jobs on our sites.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u99	Please conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u100	As I said to you, in addition to the company's 140 employee families, all its subcontractors are also in difficulty, bringing the number of job losses to 200. This is very damaging to the territorial economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u101	Mrs Nicole Trisse, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question No. 534 on bonuses for public officials in mining communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u102	Mr. Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, I would like to ask you about the difficulties encountered by public servants working at the Sarreguemines prison in my constituency with regard to the payment of the residency allowance, more commonly referred to as the "mining premium". The latter, historically assigned to public officials operating in the mining communes of the Moselle, was a supplement to the gross salary, calculated at a rate varying according to the municipality in which the agent was employed. Traditionally, this allowance was paid at the national level in communes with high cost of living. In 1954, a supplementary list of the municipalities of the coal and mining basin of Alsace and Moselle had been drawn up; 142 municipalities of Moselle were included. This list became obsolete in 2008, due to the decrease in mining activity, but also in accordance with the circular of 14 May 2001 amending the areas of residence allowance. It was therefore decided to terminate the compensation for the municipality of Sarreguemines. Public officials in the prison were the first to lose the benefit, as of 1 September 2010. The residency allowance was subsequently phased out for other public functions until 2013. Following extensive protest movements by public officials, the Government introduced compensation in 2014 for officers assigned to Moselle mining communes. This compensation was granted only to public officials who still received the residence allowance as at 30 June 2013. As a result, public officials at the Sarreguemines prison, who had ceased to receive the residence allowance as early as September 2010, were unable to receive it. Mr Secretary of State, wishing to put an end to this injustice, I would ask you to allow the public officials of the Sarreguemines prison to benefit from a catch-up of this compensation. These officers do not request that a new premium be established, but only that the compensatory premium paid from 2014 onwards to other public servants be granted to them as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u103	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u104	Mrs Trisse, the allowance for the residence of the mining communes – the mining premium – about which you are questioning me, was actually paid from 1954 to the officials assigned to one of the 142 communes of Alsace-Moselle of the coalfields region and the potassium region where there were at least ten workers and employees employed in mining and related industries. This particular condition, thus the legal basis for the payment of the mining premium, became irrelevant following the closure of the last mines in the 2000s. However, it continued to be paid to civil servants by certain administrations until June 2013. The staff members concerned then received individual compensation for the loss of the mining premium. However, the prison administration had complied in advance with the texts and had terminated the payment of the mining premium for the officers of the Sarreguemines prison as early as 2010. As these agents did not receive the premium as at 30 June 2013, they were excluded from the scope of the compensatory allowance, on the contrary of all the other agents, who were able to benefit from it. Let us be clear: this situation is unacceptable! It leads to legal uncertainty resulting from differences in the application of the regulations by our administrations and contradicts the principle of fair treatment of agents in a comparable situation. Beyond this case, which concerns your territory, we encounter this type of difficulty everywhere in France. They are due to the absurdity of certain rules for calculating staff remuneration. They once again highlight the current limitations of the staff remuneration system, some of which no longer meet the original objectives or, in some cases, no longer correspond to any reality. Without calling into question the principle of this compensation, in 2019 the Government will pursue the objective of modernizing the remuneration arrangements for public officials, so that such situations cannot be repeated and solutions can be found for these officials. They can no longer continue to be treated differently when they are placed in comparable situations. With regard to the specific case of Sarreguemines, I will not be able to give you an immediate answer, but it is certain that we must offer a solution to all public officials in the years and decades to come. It is a work that we must do together, around the minister of action and public accounts, Gérald Darmanin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u105	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u106	I thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State, even though she disappoints me a little. While everyone agrees that there was an injustice and a stupid oblivion at the time of the award of the compensation in 2014, no one is working to rectify it. It's awful. That being the case, I have the feeling that you have opened a door for us. I will immediately step into the path that you have proposed, until these public officials, who are in a difficult profession and who are not taken into consideration as much as they should, get redress. Given the current context, it seems to me important to fight for this profession, particularly with respect to my constituency, for the public service officers of the Sarreguemines prison.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u107	Mr M'jid El Guerrab, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 551, on the subjection of French residents outside the European Union to the CSG and the CRDS.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u108	Mr. Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, thank you for representing the Minister of Public Affairs and Public Accounts. I come back from the ground, from a country you know particularly well: Morocco, located in my constituency. Over the past ten days, I have held seven public meetings and seven parliamentary permanences, in direct contact with our fellow citizens who live there. Among the subjects that crystallize the most the concerns, sometimes even anger, of the French abroad, it is their subjection to the CSG and the CRDS that I would like to talk to you this morning. I raised this issue last year; I fought without being heard by the Government. However, we are pleased to have won the first round of the fight, with regard to the French in Europe. I would remind you that in February 2015, for French foreigners residing in the European Union and affiliated with another European social security scheme than the French system, the Court of Justice of the European Union called into question the social levies on the income from capital received in France, allocated to the financing of social security benefits. By this judgment, known as "de Ruyter", the CJEU required France to return the CSG and CRDS which it had improperly withdrawn. This is to be welcomed, but this decision, as you know, applies only to persons who are members of a social security scheme other than the French scheme and covered by Community legislation. We have therefore won a first round, I repeat, but that is not enough: the extension of the CJEU solution to all non-residents was not accepted by the Government during the debate on the last finance bill. French foreigners living outside these areas therefore remain subject to the CSG and the CRDS. I see this as an unacceptable violation of the principle of equality, which absolutely does not justify. Are we equal citizens before the laws of the Republic or are there French people who are more French than others, more equal than others, more recognized in their lives abroad than others? Mr Secretary of State, for ten days it was not tax exiles that came to my permanences and to my public meetings. On the contrary, they are often social exiles, who go abroad with their modest retirement to live in dignity, to live better. I had yellow vests in front of me, with this nuance that they do not block roundabouts, embassies, but express a silent anger. The great national debate desired by the President of the Republic is an opportunity to listen to our fellow citizens express their incomprehension with regard to this unjust taxation; They pay a social contribution without having the right to health. Are you considering a reform so that the decision to exempt the CSG and the CRDS applies to all French residents abroad, and not only those residing in Europe? This would be a fair measure to remove the obstacles posed by legal fraud. In this way, you would respond to a request from the great national debate. That is how you will reconnect with the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u109	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u110	Mr El Guerrab, you call the attention of Gérald Darmanin, Minister for Action and Public Accounts, to the imposition of social levies on taxpayers affiliated with another European social system and to the measures taken following the judgment of the CJEU of 27 July 2015 known as "de Ruyter". Article 26 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2019 has already brought French legislation into line with this decision. It introduced an exemption from the CSG and CRDS based on capital income for persons who are not covered by social security in France but who are affiliated in another Member State of the European Union, the European Economic Area or Switzerland. This case law and the resulting exemption are justified – and I stress these words – by the existence of a coordinated social security system organised within the European area. People outside the European area are not covered by this coordinated system: that is the difference. Any person affiliated in the European area shall contribute to the financing of the social security system on which he or she depends, irrespective of the State in which he or she resides for tax purposes. If it is affiliated with another European space State, it is not subject to the CSG and the CRDS. On the other hand, as I have just pointed out – and despite the demands of the French in your constituency, which are obviously just as French as the others – these European coordination rules do not justify the exemption of all persons residing outside France, since not all non-residents are part of this European framework from coordinated funding of social security. Indeed, it cannot be considered that all persons residing outside France could escape the imposition of their capital income on the CSG and the CRDS simply because they would have already contributed to the financing of a European social security scheme, since this is not the case. In fact, at present, all income from French source capital is intended to be subject to income tax and social levies, regardless of whether the beneficiary is a tax resident in France or not. This principle of universality of the levy base aims, in a logic of national solidarity, to include all income from French sources in the financing of our social protection system. Ruyter's case law does not change anything; It only draws the consequences of financing in a coordinated European social security system. The principle, I repeat, is that of universality.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u111	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u112	Mr Secretary of State, in the Social Security Financing Act for 2019, France has been in compliance with European legislation. But I recall that, on the frontons of our town halls, there is the motto of the Republic: "Freedom, equality, fraternity". Today, the constitutional principle of equality, which is fundamental to our common life and to our country, is unfortunately not being applied. Together with several fellow citizens, we are prepared to bring a priority issue of constitutionality before the Constitutional Council in order to break this decision and ensure that the law that applies to our fellow citizens in Europe also applies to those who live outside Europe. I speak not only for the French in my constituency, but for the 3.5 million people around the world. They are a wealth for our country, as we see at every debate in embassies and at every public meeting, and even yesterday during the visit of the President of the Republic. We must recognize this wealth and treat these French equally.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u113	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to put her question, No. 530, on the control of medical devices.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u114	Implants: all guinea pigs? It was with this documentary that investigators Marie Maurice and Édouard Perrin questioned public opinion about the very serious deficiencies in our medical device control system. And because: at present, it is mainly the industrialists who control and prove the safety of medical devices marketed in France. Thus, the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products – ANSM – our so-called "health officer" gives its green light for everything and anything, once the "CE" marking has been granted, and the High Health Authority is bypassed. A simple net of tangerine has thus received a marketing authorisation as a medical device! The consequences are very serious for all people with implants, especially since many industrialists are rushing their clinical trials to launch their products as quickly as possible into a market with annual turnover of EUR 316 billion. This was the case for Prolift prostheses, which have not been the subject of long-term clinical studies, or for the Tavi heart valve. This situation is all the more incomprehensible because many implanted medical devices cannot be explanted, and their degradation has serious health consequences. The lives of thousands of people are at stake. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, my question is simple: what are you waiting for to establish in France a system for monitoring medical devices, without waiting for the European authorities to deal with the problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u115	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u116	Some medical devices have radically changed the care of patients by improving their quality of life. Medical devices save lives, but their effectiveness and safety must be guaranteed. The role of health authorities is to ensure that patients have access to medical devices in the best safety conditions. In order to better respond to these issues of public health, the Government has undertaken actions at national level and Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, carries these issues, on behalf of France, at European level. The European Regulation, which will be applicable in May 2020, will make it possible to better monitor the bodies responsible for assessing the CE conformity marking dossiers and to strengthen their independence. Without waiting for the implementation of this new regulation, the Minister, in conjunction with the ANSM, the High Health Authority and the Caisse nationale de l'assurance maladie, has put in place several actions, grouped into three main areas. The first relates to the strengthening of evaluation and supervision of medical device installation practices, particularly for those most at risk. As soon as necessary, a framework for the installation of implantable medical devices – DMI – in health facilities will now be put in place. The second axis aims to facilitate the transmission of even weak, material-equipment signals, by improving the traceability of implantable medical devices in health facilities. An information note was sent to the latter to remind them of the regulations in force and a text will allow, from the first half of 2019, to strengthen the quality management and security of the DMI circuit in the hospital. Work has been undertaken with all stakeholders to establish the unique identifier of the medical device in all health facilities. The third axis is to make the Health Transparency database more accessible and to extend the current transparency and linkage of interests requirements. Agnès Buzyn asked to develop this basis to take into account the recommendations of the report of the Senate Drug Information Mission, so that all the beneficiaries of the health industries are clearly identified and that the functionality, ergonomics and operation of the database are adapted.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u117	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u118	We do not dispute the fact that implants can save lives, but thousands of women have been mutilated – because it is a question of mutilation – and now suffer martyrdom. An investigation showed that a tangerine net could be recognized as a medical device because it had the "CE" standard. I see the work that Minister Buzyn intends to do, but at European level, implants should be given a marketing authorisation from an independent body, which is completely closed to lobbies. However, the European regulation that will apply in 2020 does not provide for this. The European Commission has campaigned against the introduction of a marketing authorisation procedure on the grounds that it would, in its view, undermine the innovation and competitiveness of the sector, without any demonstrated added value for patient safety. The way in which the legislative process has been conducted shows the overwhelming weight of lobbies, which are openly integrated by the European Commission into the process and whose voice counts far more than that of victims and citizens. Our group has been warning you for several months: of course, laboratories are creating life-saving drugs, but we cannot allow them to continue to cause mutilation for the sake of profit. It's not thinkable – in any case, not in our country. You refer to the strengthening of security and requirements for IMDs, as well as the sending of a note to hospitals. However, the teachers at the hospitals I met are bored by this note, because it asks them to save money and the tendering procedure can force them to retain an implant that is not the one they want, but whose manufacturer has won the market. So there's a big problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u119	Mr Hervé Berville, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 542, on the skills and recruitment of the educational and social companion.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u120	My question, which relates to training and the profession of educational and social companion – AES – is the result of exchanges with professionals in my constituency, particularly in Matignon, Taden and Quévert. The outreach missions carried out by the ESAs are of crucial importance, at a time when taking charge of the loss of autonomy has become one of the major challenges of our society. I welcome the large-scale consultation on this subject, which has been the subject of many discussions, particularly in my own country, in the Côtes d'Armors. The State Diploma of Educational and Social Accompaniment, created in 2016, is structured into a common base of skills and three specialties: "accompaniment to life at home", "accompaniment to life in a collective structure" and "accompaniment to inclusive education and ordinary life". Depending on the specialty chosen, the AES, once graduated, practises in different places: in the home of the accompanied person, in accommodation for dependent elderly people – EHPAD – or in early childhood care or teaching facilities. While there is a large need for staff in home support and support services, as well as in institutions for the elderly, particularly in rural areas, this specialisation, which separates the profession of attendant, may prove to be a barrier to recruitment. This unique diploma, which replaced the State diplomas of auxiliary social life and medical-psychological assistance, was intended to anticipate the needs of professionals in terms of skills and occupational mobility, thanks in particular to bridges between specialties, through continuing training. Could we not go even further, by further promoting the versatility of the accompanying persons with the fusion, from the initial training, of the specialties of the accompaniment at home and in structure? Home support is a less preferred specialty and less often chosen by future caregivers, while home care is one of the priorities to meet the challenge of dependency, so it could increase the attractiveness of it to students and then facilitate the work of employers. More generally, an expanded field of expertise from the beginning of the career would help to enhance the profession. Madam Secretary of State, is a change in this direction being considered in the context of the consultation and the future bill on old age and autonomy?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u121	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u122	As you said, the State Diploma of Educational and Social Accompaniment merges and replaces the State diplomas of social assistance and medical and psychological assistance. It is organised on the basis of a foundation of common skills and three specialties, which you have described. At the time of the creation of the State Diploma in 2016, the Ministry of Social Affairs had undertaken to conduct, after five years, a comprehensive evaluation of the training scheme. To this end, we established a follow-up committee in March 2017. Last September, a first review of the implementation of the training was presented. The distribution of students by specialty tends to emphasize the predominance of the specialty "accompaniment of life in collective structure" and, concomitantly, the lack of attractiveness of the specialty "accompaniment of life at home". You are referring to the fact that the current construction of the diploma can lead to partitioning by specialty, a question also raised by the members of the monitoring committee, who are wondering, like you, about the value of creating a single diploma abolishing the three specialties. In 2019, we will continue this assessment process by launching a survey of employers, designed to assess the relevance of this state diploma to their expectations and needs. If, at the end of this survey, the hypothesis of the single diploma was confirmed, the merger of the three specialties of the diploma would be considered. The single diploma of educational and social companion would then aggregate the repositories of the three specialties in an identical hourly volume. This merger could ultimately facilitate the recruitment of graduates and the employability of professionals at the end of training, while fluidising the mobility of professionals within the various structures and locations of intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u123	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u124	I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for providing these clarifications and for presenting the Government's vision to national representation. We are moving in the right direction, with the investigation conducted and the discussions over the past few months showing the need for change. It is important to have a common base and not to divide the journeys of the companions, who do not want to be assigned to a single specialty at an early stage. The work you are doing with the Department of Solidarity and Health and its translation into the future bill will help meet the needs of professionals in this sector and employers and, ultimately, those of older people. We will thus take up this major challenge linked to the loss of autonomy, the dignity of dependent people and the attractiveness of our territories. I will, of course, follow very closely the development of this dossier.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u125	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor to put his question, No. 531 on the victims of nuclear tests.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u126	It is still time to present the wish of the new year:'I'a' oa'oa outou i teie mätahiti äpï! I would like to extend these wishes to the many Polynesians who are victims of nuclear testing, who are suffering today like others tomorrow. They hoped that the law of 5 January 2010 on the recognition and compensation of victims of French nuclear tests, known as the Morin law – after the withdrawal of the notion of "negligible risk", in February 2017, and the report of the extra-parliamentary commission born from the law of 28 February 2017 on programming on real equality overseas and laying down other provisions in social and economic matters, known as the EROM law – would finally show them respect. But since the beginning of the year, I have been wondering about the unacceptable setback in this area. Indeed, although the notion of "negligible risk" has been eliminated from the Morin law, how can we accept that beyond the conclusions of the commission chaired by Lana Tetuanui, Senator of Polynesia, victims must again prove that they have been exposed to radiation greater than 1 millisievert? How can we accept that the "negligible risk", evacuated in 2017 with great communication reinforcement, returns in 2019 through the window, disguised, through a legislative rider? Prior to the amendment made by your government and Ms. Lana Tetuanui, the law stated that, without absolute certainty that a victim had not been exposed to nuclear radiation, the Committee for the Compensation of Nuclear Test Victims – CIVEN – was obliged to compensate him. The Council of State went in this direction in June 2017. Today, through more than questionable constitutional and moral manoeuvres, the wording of the law reflects precisely the arguments already used by the ICVEN, for several years, to refuse compensation. Ten files, on which the rapporteur of Papeete's administrative court had given the applicants the right, are now suspended due to amendments to the 2019 Finance Bill adopted in the Senate on 4 December 2018 and here during the Christmas season. How many current and future files will have to suffer from these changes? We would like to turn the ICVEN into a non-indemnification machine that we would not otherwise take, for the greatest happiness in the finances of the State and to the great damnation of the nuclear victims. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, what is your assessment of what the Polynesians, who still pay the price of blood, will not fail to call "the return of negligible risk"?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u127	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u128	Mr President, you are asking me about the conclusions of the report of the commission set up by section 113 of the Act of 28 February 2017 on programming on real equality overseas, which would require victims to prove that they were exposed to radiation of more than 1 millisievert, according to a decree. In 2018, the Nuclear Test Victims Compensation Committee provisionally determined the new methodology for the review of claims, in order to draw the consequences of the removal by EROM of the concept of "negligible risk". This provision allowed until then to reverse the presumption of causation and to take into account the opinion of the Council of State of 28 June 2017. The new methodology is based on article R. 1333-11 of the Public Health Code, which sets the public exposure limit at 1 millisievert per year, in order to exclude applications based on exposure doses below this threshold. The commission set up by the EROM law recommended that the ICVEN provisional methodology be consolidated. Article 232 of the Finance Act for 2019 has accordingly amended Article 4 of the Act of 5 January 2010 on the recognition and compensation of victims of French nuclear tests. This article now states that "This committee" examines whether the conditions for compensation are met. Where they are, the person concerned shall enjoy a presumption of causality, unless it is established that the annual dose of ionizing radiation due to the French nuclear tests received by the person concerned has been less than the effective dose limit for the exposure of the population to ionizing radiation fixed under the conditions laid down in Article L. 1333-2 of the Code of Public Health. » Thus, claims for compensation are always investigated under a legal presumption regime, which means that victims do not have to prove that they have been exposed to radiation greater than 1 millisievert. The methodology resulting from the new provisions has already led the ICVEN to compensate more applicants.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u129	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u130	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for your answer, but in practice this is not the case: ten applications filed before the Administrative Court are now suspended because of this amendment and the introduction of the new provisions. I encourage the Government to resume its consideration of these changes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u131	The next speaker is Mr Vincent Rolland, to put his question, No. 548, concerning reinforcements of the gendarmerie in tourist areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u132	Mr Minister of the Interior, our country's winter sports resorts, which you know well, are an opportunity for French tourism, with 7 billion euros in revenue in my department and in the neighbouring department of Haute-Savoie. They also experienced a sharp increase in their population between 15 December and 15 April, with the arrival of hundreds of thousands of holidaymakers, which justified the installation of temporary gendarmerie posts in order to ensure the maintenance of law and order and the safety of our mountain territories. However, in my department of Savoie, the 114 mobile gendarmes were all recalled in order to carry out other tasks, which even led to the outright closure of certain temporary gendarmerie posts in the ski resorts, for which the communes concerned had invested in order to accommodate the gendarmes in good conditions. Today, despite the involvement of gendarmes from the permanent brigades, the tasks of the gendarmerie can no longer be carried out in satisfactory conditions. I let you imagine the consequences that this can have in a district like mine, whose population, in the winter, rises from 110,000 inhabitants to 450,000. Is public safety in the mountains a second area? I therefore ask you to return without delay the personnel concerned, so that our gendarmes – to whom I would like to pay tribute – can work under normal conditions, for the safety and tranquillity of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u133	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u134	Mr President, the situation you are talking about, linked to the population migrations observed during the winter holidays and comparable to those experienced elsewhere in other seasons, is always complicated to deal with. Traditionally, during this period, we mobilize six gendarmerie squadrons, or 444 people, to accompany the security forces already present on the spot. However, you are aware of the strong demands we face in the maintenance of public order. Every Saturday, we must mobilize almost all the forces of the gendarmerie squadrons, but also of the CRS and our other security forces, to deal with demonstrations and a social conflict of a new kind: that of the "yellow vests". Every Saturday, in order to protect the French, goods and institutions, we reach an exceptional and very difficult level of mobilization, which is also very difficult to live for our security forces. This results in a weakening of the mobilization of these public security forces in the other missions that we entrust to them – in neighbourhoods, for example, but also in the management of the population peaks that you refer to about the ski resorts. We then have no choice but to appeal to the women and men of the territorial units, whose increased commitment and additional deployment make it possible to deal with these situations. We are also hypermobilizing reservists. Thus, in your department, Mr. Rolland, 210 reservists were mobilized for the Christmas holidays, replacing the squadrons traditionally present on the spot. You are right to say that this solution is not ideal. This is a frailty of our system. It should be borne in mind, however, that the public security forces have been among those whose strength has fallen the most in recent years. While, since 2015, we have decided – this "we" means the National Assembly, which votes the budget allocated to the Ministry of the Interior, not the minister who has been in charge for three months – to increase the number of recruitments in the police and gendarmerie. This government is committed to implementing an action plan of 10,000 recruits, but this has not been the case for public law enforcement. The situation we are experiencing today obliges us to thoroughly review the management of public order and we will obviously have to ask ourselves the question of recruitment. However, I would like to reassure you, honourable Member: thanks to the hyper-mobilization of our territorial forces and to the strengthening of the recruitment of reservist gendarmes, who are entitled to perform the functions of the gendarmes and know the territory well, sometimes better than the forces of public order, we enjoy in your territories – in Savoie in particular, but not only – a quality of service based on the commitment of women and men whom you know well as a field elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u135	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u136	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I am still waiting to know the date of the return of the mobile gendarmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u137	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u138	In my only riding, about 100 gendarmes left. Ski resorts, like other holiday resorts, are subject to public order difficulties. I refuse to believe that our tourist areas can become areas of no law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u139	That's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u140	...a kind of Far West where it could happen everything and anything, for lack of means to enforce public order or the laws of the Republic. I therefore very much hope for the return of these gendarmes, who are necessary for the economic system and who also play an important role on transhumance days – Saturdays or other days – and, as happens in the mountains, in case of snowfall. It has already snowed and it will snow again: when the department is paralyzed, we also need these gendarmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u141	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs spoke of her question, No. 552, on asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u142	Mr Minister of the Interior, my question concerns the situation of asylum seekers in our country, particularly in the Yvelines department. The law on controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration, promulgated on 10 September, aims, among other things, to reduce the delays in processing asylum applications and to facilitate the integration of regularised persons. However, more than three months after the enactment of this law, the situation of many asylum-seekers remains very precarious. In my constituency, Tibetan refugees have now been forced to camp in the open air for two years, in the most precarious situation. This year, nearly 400 Tibetans, most of them first arriving under the national asylum system, set up a camp in the Achères forest near Conflans-Sainte-Honorine. I would like to commend the State services and the associations, which have managed to find temporary accommodation solutions for these people, working and mobilizing. We know, however, that it is very likely that a new camp will be established in the coming months, and it seems to me essential to find a lasting solution in order to prevent this situation from recurring every year. We cannot resolve to see these people living in deplorable conditions of hygiene and comfort. The Yvelines department suffers from a staggering lack of emergency accommodation and associations alone cannot cope. On the other hand, the issue of the residence permit is not sufficient to ensure successful integration, accompaniment of these persons must continue once the title has been obtained. Minister, what solutions does the Government intend to implement to prevent situations similar to those of Tibetan refugees in the Yvelines department? How can we ensure that our law, in particular the new law on this matter, is respected and applicable in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u143	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u144	Madam Member, you raise two questions: one local and specific, the other national and concerning the application of the asylum and immigration law adopted by your Assembly a few months ago and most of the provisions of which came into force only on 1 January this year, which prevents us from taking full measure of its implementation. Your first question is very particular, because of the origin of the migrants that you evoke and the particular history that unites these Tibetans newly arrived in France to Conflans-Sainte-Honorine. As early as 2017, the regional prefect proposed to open an emergency shelter for refugees and undertook specific work on the integration of these Tibetan refugees. However, this does not relieve us of the obligation to take emergency measures because, as you have said, new arrivals create real difficulties. For example, a 320-person shelter operation was carried out in December 2017 and, at the end of last year, in November 2018, 290 more people were taken care of as part of the asylum arrangements that we must guarantee. To answer your more structural question on the asylum and immigration law, I would like to point out that the aim of the law is to ensure that the deadlines for the registration of asylum applications in one-stop shops are drastically reduced. This is the case in Île-de-France, where they are less than the three days provided for by law. It seems to me necessary to deal with this issue very quickly, because this decision gives rise to rights and allows shelter to be organised. On the other hand, the asylum-seekers' accommodation park was not at the level it should have reached. It has doubled in six years – which is not negligible – to reach 86000 places by the end of 2018. In total, accommodation capacity amounts to 91000 places. Your assembly voted, under the budget allocated to the Ministry of the Interior, the possibility – and therefore the need – of creating 5500 additional places. I asked the competent services to act quickly, particularly in Île-de-France. The territory you refer to must be accompanied in this context and places will be created. Finally, you rightly refer to the integration of migrants. For a very long time, indeed, in our country, the various currents of political thought have opposed the number of migrants we can welcome, without ever worrying about their integration, a question which you have raised. In this regard, we must have particularly suitable financial resources, particularly for learning French, which is the first emergency when refugees settle in France. The budget that you voted for gives my ministry exceptional means, which must be mobilised: they are, under the authority of the Prefect, in the Yvelines as well as in all the territories, in order to find the best accommodation and accompaniment solutions, and therefore integration. We are particularly vigilant about the local situation you are referring to, which is accompanied by tensions and human difficulties for those who are welcomed to your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u145	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon to put his question, No 553, on the experiment of a telemedicine suitcase in the Dordogne.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u146	Mr Minister, in my department, the Dordogne, where the lack of both general practitioners and specialists is a pressing problem, a telemedicine suitcase has been set up. It is operated by the firefighters of Nontron and the departmental fire and rescue service of Dordogne, SDIS 24. Inhabited by 27,000 people, this area, known as a medical desert, is more than 30 minutes away from its nearby hospital. The telemedicine case allows the emergency medical aid service – SAMU – to establish a pre-diagnosis thanks to a camera directly connected to the regulatory centre of the hospital of Périgueux and to transmit encrypted data in real time, with the consent of the patient or one of his or her relatives. Equipped with a complete mobile audio, video, graphic and biological system, it will allow doctors to know directly the symptoms of patients, who can be treated more quickly, even before they arrive in hospital. In the context of an ageing population and medical desertification, this system seems to be increasingly being used: many territories affected by these phenomena could thus reduce the impact on rural populations. In two months, from March to May 2018, this telemedicine suitcase allowed more than 40 interventions. This tool will allow firefighters, who are widely sought after in rural areas and are the first interlocutors of the population, to grasp their missions more quickly. SIDS 24 and UAS 24 received the Innovation Award from the National High School of Firefighter Officers for this innovative and promising new model. Minister, could we consider experimenting with this mechanism supervised by the ministry, with a view to a national generalisation if the results proved satisfactory?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u147	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u148	Mr President, you are referring to a reality which your department, the Dordogne, is aware of, but which is also known by many other rural departments: the question of the presence, ageing and renewal of our doctors, and the deaf concern of the inhabitants with the risks of medical deficiency. We must therefore be innovative. SIDS is an essential link in the relief chain, helping to protect and combat accidents, disasters and disasters. I felt in your remarks your willingness to thank them for their commitment. We must allow them to manage an increasing operational pressure with the means given to them. Today, almost 80 per cent of their interventions are emergency services for people: they need to be equipped and found. To meet this challenge, the Ministries of the Interior and Health have jointly embarked on an ambitious project. The first is to adapt the organization and technical tools of relief and emergency services – to improve orientation and ensure that the telephone number is used to reach the right responder. The aim is also to further increase the chances of survival of victims through the quality of support and an appropriate operational response. Several measures have already been taken, such as the generalization of ambulance coordinators within UAS, the reduction of waiting times for firefighter crews in hospital emergencies and, above all, the systematization of consultation between SIDS, UAS, regional health agencies and prefects at both departmental and regional levels. That's for ministerial intelligence! But it is not enough: it must combine with the intelligence of the territories. If I mention the first with humor, it is, as you have understood, in order to better underline the reality of the second, of the invention and innovation capacity of our territories. The case of telemedicine that you evoke the experiment in Burgundy is a local initiative, followed with particular attention by the two ministries. It can indeed reduce the operational pressure we are facing. This experiment must be able to be extended: it is our objective. The observers tell me the greatest good and we will therefore follow it with the will, if its effectiveness is confirmed – and your testimony pleads in this sense – to develop it.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u149	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor to put his question, No. 559, concerning the number of judicial police officers in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u150	Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask you about the problems faced by the Seine-Saint-Denis department in terms of the number of judicial police officers – OPJ. In comparison with Paris, the Hauts-de-Seine and Val-de-Marne, where the OPJ account for 16.9%, 12.4% and 15.2% of the police force respectively, the Seine-Saint-Denis account for only 9.4%. JPOs are those who receive complaints and conduct the investigation. In the first district of the Seine-Saint-Denis, of which I am elected, they were grouped together, by decision of the prefect of police, on the weekend in Bobigny and on the days of the week, between six and nine hours, in one of the prefects of the district. In concrete terms, in order to meet them, citizens have to move away from home, in other cities, while there is a great insecurity in this department: some therefore give up filing a complaint. There are other major problems with this staggering shortage of staff. First, it is the very investigative capacity of the police officers that is diminished: fewer OPJs are fewer investigators; As a result, the offences against the inhabitants of this department are less prosecuted. With fewer JPOs working on a large number of files, the risk of statute of limitations also increases, as files that are not considered urgent can be set aside until the expiry of the deadline. There is also a risk that cases will be dealt with hastily and that research will not really be conducted. These are the dysfunctions that this situation can create. I go over the details: all the procedural acts must be moved between the police stations, for example that of Drancy, the city where I live, towards that of Bobigny, on Friday night, to return to the same path in the opposite direction on Monday morning. All this consumes police time and puts material elements and even procedures at risk. Such shortcomings also affect the work and efficiency of municipal police. I can thus testify to the long hours spent by municipal police officers taking the arrested persons to Bobigny to present them to the OPJ, which obviously cannot treat everything at the same time: more than half of a night of municipal police thus happens at the Bobigny police station, waiting for the arrested person to be taken care of. These are therefore fewer missions of prevention, surveillance of good order, safety and public security, whereas these missions are fundamental in one of France's most criminogenic departments. Minister, what do you intend to do to ensure that JPOs are assigned to the Seine-Saint-Denis and that the present situation in the first district, initially presented by the Prefect as provisional, is not definitive, as it seems to be becoming so? We must have a sufficient number of OPJs to meet the challenges and needs of a department that, as you know, suffers from delinquency.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u151	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u152	Mr President, I do not have the same figures as you, but it does not matter: the figures I have reveal, in any case, the reality that you are referring to and the gap that actually exists: there is not enough OPJ on your territory and, more generally, on the Parisian crown. This lack of efficiency results in a lack of effectiveness, which you have described very well and which I will not question. There are several causes for this situation. First of all, criminal proceedings are increasingly complex, making the judicial police less attractive today. This is a real difficulty: our judicial police is one of the best in the world, but many police officers no longer want to move towards this sector. This is primarily due to technical, compensatory and statutory reasons, and to the principle of the civil servant's freedom: an OPJ cannot be forced to join a deficit service. I do not necessarily want to question this principle, but it is a project that we have decided to open with the trade union organisations. We must also mention the simplification of criminal procedures, which is the absolute urgency. This job has become so complex, so difficult, with such a risk of error related to the superimposition of judicial proceedings, that it is, at the end of the day, not attractive – I was still last night with officers and judicial police officers, who told me about these problems. Conducting investigations is, however, the essence of police work; It is a passion for those who commit themselves to it, but these judicial and administrative difficulties reduce the number of candidates and we do not know how to retain staff by improving the attractiveness of positions. It is not a budgetary question: in your department, the posts are open, but we cannot fill them. It is a project that we will discuss, within six months, when negotiating a wage agreement with a part of the police unions, as with the management. We need to strengthen judicial attractiveness and bring the police back to the core of their profession. There is also a need to continue the work on simplification. The Justice Reform Bill is contributing to this; regulatory work between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior must also contribute to this. We must act. As for the consolidation of judicial offices at the end of the week and on public holidays, which you mentioned, it was introduced in certain districts of security and proximity of Seine-Saint-Denis to improve the effectiveness of the police – that's how it was presented to me, three months ago, when I took up my duties. My experience, like the exchanges I have had with you and other parliamentarians, suggests to me that this is not necessarily the case. That is why I asked the police prefect for a precise assessment of this experiment, which must be carried out in the coming months, before the end of the first quarter. This will enable us to decide whether to go back, in the event that this arrangement removes rights to users and leads to unsatisfactory working conditions for police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u153	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u154	Thank you, Mr. Minister of the Interior, for answering our questions yourself this morning. With a charge like yours, it's not nothing. I would point out that there is a similar problem for anti-criminality brigades – LAC – which are also mutualised in Seine-Saint-Denis. As a result, there are fewer JPOs and fewer field presences. You're right to say that it's not a question of budget, it's a question of attractiveness. It must be restored, otherwise this department will suffer even more.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u155	Mrs Sabine Rubin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 529, on energy renovation of housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u156	Let me take this opportunity to greet the comrades of CGT 93 on energy, true Robin des bois, who, for the past two months, have volunteered to keep a window of proximity in order to accompany the precarious energy of my department. To date, they have welcomed 600 people. A big thank you and a fraternal greeting! My question is to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. In 2009, the Grenelle Environmental Act set a target for the renovation of 400,000 housing units per year; It also aimed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from buildings by 38%. In 2015, the Energy Transition Act planned to renovate 500,000 homes per year, eliminate energy coffers by 2025 and reduce energy insecurity by 15% by 2020. Today, we are a long way from the point of view: 7.4 million homes are considered to be energy coffers and 12 million of our citizens are considered to be energy coffers, i.e. they spend more than 10% of their income on heating. According to the Climate-Energy Observatory of the Climate Action Network, greenhouse gas emissions from buildings even increased by 22.7% in 2017. In my department of Seine-Saint-Denis, this inequality is added to all the others. Many families do not have the money to undertake thermal renovations of their homes and are hit hard by the slightest increase in energy prices. In both the social and private parks, how many central heating systems and radiators fail, despite the heavy burdens that families have to pay? How many of our fellow citizens are forced to buy blower electric heaters in order to get a feeling of heat? The Minister of State is aware of the consequences of this situation on the family budget: some bills amount to 200 euros per month for 60 square meters. For many families, this is where the spiral of debt begins. To finance renovation work, it is not tax credits that families need that are in any case too poor to be taxable, but a real public service of renovation. Recently, the multi-annual energy programme was presented: not a sentence, not a word about the energy renewal of housing! In the Green Growth Energy Transition Act, the objective of renovating energy colanders by 2025 is not binding. Do you undertake to make implementing decrees making this renovation compulsory? Another concrete measure proposed by the Fondation Abbé Pierre is the prohibition on renting dwellings classified as F and G, the worst categories in terms of energy. You are in favour of this measure: when will you bring it into force?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u157	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u158	Madam Member, you interviewed Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition. He couldn't be present, so he asked me to answer you. The Government is fully aware of the urgency of accelerating the energy renewal of housing. The energy renovation plan for buildings, launched in 2018 by the Ministry of Housing and the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, should allow, with the support of the financing provided by the major investment plan, to increase aid for the energy renovation of housing for modest and very modest households: €1.2 billion have been set aside for this purpose until 2022. Many schemes have been put in place to support modest households, on the one hand in the payment of their bills, with the energy check, and on the other hand in the financing of thermal insulation and the renovation of heating systems. These include the Energy Transition Tax Credit (ISCED), the "Having Better" programme, led by the National Housing Agency (NAHA), energy saving certificates, in particular the "Heating Coup de pouce" and the "Isolation Coup de pouce", financed by energy suppliers, eco-loan at zero rates – eco-PTZ – financed by the State and distributed by banking institutions, VAT at reduced rates for works and complementary programmes financed by local authorities. In order to facilitate access by modest households, homeowners, to the multiplicity of funding available, the Minister of State hoped that the aid paid under the ISCED and the ANAH 'Better Living' programme would be merged into a single premium as from 1 January 2020. In addition, as part of its extension, the eco-PTZ is made more operational and greatly simplified as of March 2019 with the removal of the condition of the work package, which allows to remove the liquidity constraint on households that do not carry out a work package. Tenants must also be able to benefit from high-performance housing. As such, ISCED will be extended to landlords. ANAH will continue to provide financial support to homeowners who are committed to renting their homes to low-income households at agreed rates. The scheme for energy saving certificates – EWC – has also been made more ambitious. Since the beginning of this year, the "Heating Coup de Souvenir" has provided enhanced support for modest households – 4000 euros for a biomass boiler, a heat pump or a solar system as part of the replacement of a boiler with oil, coal or non-performing gas by a gas-efficient boiler or a renewable heating mode. The "Insulation Coup de pouce" provides reinforced support for the insulation of attices, roofs and low floors. Finally, you recalled your proposal to extend, in the long term, the lease permit to dwellings whose energy performance is not sufficient. The Government prefers, initially, to limit this arrangement to unworthy or unhealthy housing, as provided for under the Act on Access to Housing and a Renovated Urban Development – ALUR.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u159	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u160	Thank you for citing all the measures that already exist and which, as you have indicated, are intended for landlords or landlords. For my part, I have a great question about the tenants, especially the tenants of the social donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u161	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor to put his question, No. 535, on the renewal of the terrestrial wind farm.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u162	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to the ageing of our land wind farms. The ageing of aerogenerators is indeed problematic for operators, in particular in terms of maintenance and operating costs, performance or environmental impact. While, in my Finistère department, the first wind farms were set up almost twenty years ago, today the question arises of their renewal and the integration of new technologies. In this respect, the so-called repoweringconsist technique to increase the power of a park and thus optimize the operation of a site already accepted and well integrated locally. While the creation of new parks requires numerous studies to assess wind potential and investigate applications for authorisation, repowering has the advantage of relying on known environmental data. The reconfigured fleet also benefits from existing infrastructure – access, delivery station, connection. The renewal of land-based wind farms is therefore one of the means of achieving France's ambitious targets for the production of renewable electricity. Aware of this issue, the Government, in the person of your predecessor, signed, on July 11, 2018, a circular on the appraisal of projects for the renewal of land wind farms, in order to facilitate this rise in power. This instruction, without binding value, is intended to clarify the interpretation of the current regulatory framework and, in particular, defines in which cases the modification of a wind plant is "substantial" or simply "significant". In this sense, professionals, but also local elected officials, can be commended. Uncertainties remain, however, precisely because of the non-binding nature of the text, which does not sufficiently secure the situation. Given the potential for renewal of our land wind farms, estimated at more than 5000 megawatts by 2030, what is the Minister of State planning to further accelerate this movement and go further in simplifying repowering procedures?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u163	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u164	Mr President, in response to your question to Mr François de Rugy, the climate plan sets out an ambition of carbon neutrality by 2050 and diversification of the modes of electricity production. The development of renewable energies, and in particular of terrestrial wind, is a key issue in achieving this evolution of the energy mix, the decarbonization of our energy and the independence of France in terms of supply. As the President of the Republic recalled on 27 November 2018, as part of the installation of the High Council for Climate and in front of all the partners of the National Council for the Ecological Transition – CNTE – France aims to triple the production of the terrestrial wind farm by 2030. This increase will be based on the construction of new wind farms, but also, as you rightly point out, on the renewal of wind plants at the end of their lives. A working group on wind energy had been convened under the leadership of Sébastien Lecornu, then Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, with representatives of elected representatives, environmental NGOs, professional wind energy federations and all the administrations concerned. This group examined the subject and delivered its findings in January 2018. One of the important measures proposed was to simplify and consolidate the administrative framework for land wind energy and to propose the drafting of an instruction for the repowering of wind farms. This choice of instruction, sought by the members of the working group, provides a common framework that can be adapted to each wind farm project, based on the principle of an approach proportionate to local issues. I am very committed to this principle of assessment specific to each case, in compliance with the rules laid down nationally. As you indicated, the instruction was issued on July 11, 2018. In several simple cases of wind farms renewal, this instruction limits administrative procedures, e.g. to produce a "bring to knowledge" limited content for department prefects. The first returns from the regional environmental, planning and housing directorates, i.e. from the deconcentrated state administrations in the regions responsible for the technical treatment of these "bring to knowledge", show that wind energy professionals have adapted this instruction, which is a tool to assist decision-making in the dimensioning of the importance of their renewal projects. This tool allows them to define a real industrial strategy, concerned with their economic interests and the stakes of each territory. The first wind farm renewal projects were granted and work is expected to begin in the coming months. Following the work carried out by Sébastien Lecornu, I will take stock of the first months of application of the instruction of 11 July 2018 by bringing together all the members of the "wind farm" working group to deepen the work – indeed, the meeting is taking place this morning. If we have to change this system, we will do so in accordance with this objective of developing the Earth's wind energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u165	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u166	Thank you for that answer. I invite you to my department, Finistère, because I have noted, Madam Secretary of State, that you will shortly be evaluating this circular: you are welcome. I recall the potential of this renewal for our country: there are now more than 6600 wind turbines and 1100 parks in France; This means that the simplification of repowering is at stake.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u167	The next speaker is Mr Stéphane Travert, to put his question, No 544, on the energy transition in the English Channel.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u168	The objectives of the recently presented multi-annual energy programming – PPE – will double the installed capacity of electric renewable energy in 2028. The main channels for achieving the objective will be hydropower, solar photovoltaics and terrestrial wind and, gradually, wind at sea, the production of which will increase during the second period of the EPP. The diversification of the electricity mix will also result in a decrease in the nuclear fleet, with the aim of achieving a 50% share in the mix by 2035. The Manche department is at the centre of this electric mix. It is a key department with regard to nuclear energy. The forthcoming opening in Flamanville of the next generation of the European pressurized reactor – EPR – is one of the proofs of this. It will complement a nuclear device well in place in this department. However, the Channel can also become a key department in the development of marine renewable energies – EMR. With 350 kilometres of coastline, it is one of the most maritime French departments, an ideal host land for RMEs, which has begun to engulf in this major source of economic development through the floating wind market. Highlighted at the beginning of the summer, in Quimper, by the President of the Republic, this market is immense and provides jobs. For example, in Cherbourg, LM Wind Power, installed on the port, has recruited nearly 100 employees since June and will start production of wind turbine blades in January 2019. But this renewable marine energy sector is not based solely on offshore wind. Other techniques, real levers of green growth promised to a bright future, offer a perspective to the Department of the English Channel. This is the case with the thermal energy of the seas: the economic studies carried out by Naval Energies show that power plants producing electricity, but also co-products, by means of this technique can be profitable, even without public subsidies. The development of MREs must be a major component of the success of the energy transition that we all want. The deposit is considerable, energy production is more regular and larger than on land, and these technologies create many jobs. The Channel, surrounded by the sea, can take all its part. As a key department for the nuclear energy sector, it could become so for marine renewable energies, as well as a real demonstrator, in its own space, of the energy mix. The Department could thus develop, alongside an economy marked by the preponderance of agriculture and agri-food, an industrial specificity by becoming the Department of Energy, combining in its territory the two energy pillars desired by the State: nuclear and renewable. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, what specific place you intend to place at MREs in the energy mix and what place our Department of the English Channel can take there.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u169	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u170	Mr. Member, you interviewed Mr. François de Rugy. As he could not be present, he asked me to answer you on the question of the development of marine renewable energies. As you point out, renewable energies at sea are a major component of the energy transition. The Green Growth Energy Transition Act sets a target of 40% renewable electricity in the electricity mix by 2030 and marine energy will be essential to achieve this. The multi-year energy programming project presented on 27 November 2018 and put online for a few days at the ministry's site, plans to double the installed capacity of electric renewable energy in 2028 compared to 2017, with an installed capacity of 102 to 113 gigawatts in 2028, increasing installed capacity by 50% by 2023. In order to achieve this goal, a commitment from each Territory will be essential. In this context, the development of renewable energies at sea is essential to the success of the energy transition. In particular, the Government wishes to develop offshore wind turbine, laid and floating, which is the most mature sector of marine energy. The deposit is considerable, especially in the English Channel, because energy production is more regular and important than on land and these technologies create jobs in France. To this end, the PPE project incorporates a timetable for future offshore wind projects, providing for a new project to be awarded by the State each year, which Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, mentioned at the Assises de l'économie de la mer on 28 November. According to this calendar, the Government proposes to launch a new offshore wind project in Normandy, which will be followed by first commercial tenders for wind turbines floating in Brittany and the Mediterranean, which is a first in Europe. The EPP project will then pave the way for the launch of other projects. Our goal is to achieve an installed capacity of 4.7 to 5.2 gigawatts by 2028. To launch the next project in Normandy and as foreseen by the law reform for a state at the service of a trust society – ESSOC – the National Commission for Public Debate will be asked to determine the conditions for public consultation on this new wind project at sea. The public will then be asked to take a decision to identify areas suitable for the development of the next project, and then it will be decided which area will be the subject of the next competition. As far as the thermal energy of the seas is concerned, this technique of electricity generation is not yet sufficiently developed to be the subject of commercial tenders, but it is a technology of the future, particularly for the ultramarine territories, and it is also already used on a small scale to produce heat or cold. The Government supports it through research and development projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u171	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor to put his question, No. 545, on goose hunting.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u172	My question concerns the possibility of hunting wild geese in France from 1 February next. With nearly one million individuals, the western European population of ash geese, including France, is one of the areas of parking and transit migration, reaching an exaggeratedly high level, after four decades of exponential growth. An international management plan was adopted in early December in Durban and it is apparent from the exposed demographic models that, if nothing is done, the population of ash geese will number 6 million by 2030. On the other hand, it appears that Finland, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain and Sweden allow themselves by way of derogation, in addition to hunting, to destroy hundreds of thousands of overabundant migratory geese, sometimes with means of another age, such as gassing or destruction of eggs, while, at the same time, French hunters are denied a few more days of hunting. This ubiquitous situation only reinforces hostility and incomprehension towards Europe and risks, if nothing is done, turning our hunter friends into yellow vests. We have noted the firm commitment made a year ago by the President of the Republic to allow the hunting of these geese in February – which, along with other advances announced in favour of hunting, led to the departure of Nicolas Hulot – but the promises only bind those who listen to them. So my question is simple: will this promise be kept? How has the situation changed in the last year, particularly in legal terms? What guarantees are there that the decree to be issued will not be broken by the Council of State? It is easy, indeed, to give apparently satisfaction to hunters by making a decree of which we know very well that it will be cancelled. Is this promise solid or will we, once again, deceive the hunters? The hunting world is waiting this morning for a clear, firm and precise answer on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u173	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u174	Mr President, the President of the Republic has committed himself to examining an application for a derogation from the levy of ash geese in February 2019, stating that he wanted, more generally, the adaptive management of certain species to allow the level of the levies to be determined according to their conservation status. The overall population of ash geese increased from about 30,000 in the mid-sixties to nearly one million today. This population dynamics have a negative impact on human activities, such as agriculture or aeronautics, and even on ecosystems. For example, the annual cost of compensation for damage caused by ash geese amounts to more than €6 million in the Netherlands. Without changing the context, the population of ash geese will reach 5 to 8 million people in 20 years, raising the risk of increased damage and compensation. The Birds Directive lays down the principle that migratory birds cannot be hunted during their return journey to their nesting sites, which begins at the end of January for ash goose. This led the Council of State to set 31 January as the date for the closure of the ash goose hunt. However, the Birds Directive provides for derogations and it is on this basis that the National Federation of Hunters has requested a derogation allowing the hunting of ash goose in February, guaranteeing the collection of small quantities under strictly controlled conditions. Moreover, meeting in Durban in December 2018, the parties to the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds – AEWA – have adopted an international plan for the management of ash goose populations aimed at maintaining a good conservation status for the species while controlling its numbers. The request of the National Federation of Hunters has been investigated taking into account the elements of this international plan and a draft ministerial decree to hunt ash goose beyond 31 January was submitted to the National Council for Hunting and Wildlife on 8 January 2019. It was the subject of a public consultation, which ended on 24 January, and the results of which revealed very divided positions between supporters and opponents of this derogation. These results and the analysis of the evolution of the species will lead to the adaptation of the decree, which will authorize the levy, in February, of a quota of 4000 individuals, under strictly controlled conditions. For the future, work is continuing under AEWA's management plan, with a view to declining all measures for the regulation of ash goose in all the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u175	Mr Daniel Fasquelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u176	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I believe that we are moving in the right direction, even though I am not completely convinced that the Council of State will not cancel this new decree. Indeed, the context has not fundamentally changed: the Birds Directive has not been amended and the international discussions you are talking about are not new. I am therefore afraid that the promise of the President of the Republic will unfortunately not be fulfilled, and I regret that France has not done everything, particularly in Brussels, to obtain more concrete progress on which it could have relied to ensure that this order is not called into question. I can only encourage you to ask for an amendment to the Birds Directive – which, in its current wording, prohibits any solution – and to continue negotiations at the international level and to do with us pedagogy on the necessary regulation of species: given the evolution of the population of ash geese, it is not the removal of a few individuals who risk endangering this species, which, of course, should be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u177	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to put her question, No 549, on bioethanol.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u178	My question to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, relates to the Government's policy on agrofuels. Among agrofuels are bioethanol, of which France is the leading European producer and which has many advantages. The first of these is economic: it is a local fuel, produced in the heart of our territories, especially in my constituency of the Marne, where the important production site of Pomacle-Bazancourt is located. Its production contributes to the maintenance of economic activities and jobs in rural areas, with 150 to 250 million euros invested per distillery and 8900 direct and indirect jobs throughout the territory, and also provides market opportunities and new markets for farmers. The second advantage is environmental, since bioethanol allows a significant reduction in C02 emissions, with one tonne of bioethanol saving 1.4 tonnes of C02 equivalent. The third is not the most negligible in the present circumstances, since it is its price. The E85 is indeed the cheapest fuel at the pump, while fully responding to the challenges of the ecological transition – because in "ecological transition", there is: "transition". Agrofuels and bioethanol are therefore a future choice for decarbonizing transport and increasing the purchasing power of motorists. Despite these undeniable benefits, your government has chosen to open the market for imported palm oil agrofuels, keeping the rate of bioethanol incorporation in gasoline below the production potential. You will understand, Madam Secretary of State, that these decisions appear to be at least incomprehensible from the point of view of both the production sector and the motorists. I would also like to point out that some regions, including the Great East dear to President Waserman, have decided to accompany motorists in the conversion of petrol-fuelled vehicles to bioethanol, which is not without consequences, because it causes buyers of new vehicles to lose the benefit of the manufacturer guarantee. I would therefore like to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for indicating the measures that you intend to implement to remove ideological obstacles to the non-food uses of agricultural production, to protect bioethanol produced in France and Europe from foreign competition and circumventions, to reinforce the objectives of the energy transition of the transport sector and thus to support the French agrofuel production sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u179	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u180	Madam Member of Parliament, Mr François de Rugy, Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, who cannot be present, has asked me to answer you. Ethanol is now incorporated into essences in the form of pure ethanol or tertiobutyl ethyl ether – ETBE – in fuels E5, E10 and E85, and contributes to the development of renewable energies in the transport sector. The technical specifications of these fuels limit the incorporation of ethanol and we are now reaching these limits, given the volumes proposed for consumption. The development of E85 should allow for the incorporation of more ethanol into fuels, but this must be done in a safe manner. The vast majority of the vehicle fleet is now incompatible with E85 fuel and its use in an incompatible vehicle exposes the consumer to serious risks of breakdown and engine failure. In order to allow in-service vehicles, originally designed to operate with unleaded petrol for fuel, to run with superethanol E85, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidary Transition has defined by a 2017 Order the technical and administrative provisions allowing the homologation of conversion devices from petrol-powered vehicles to fuel-modulable petrol-superethanol E85, in order to ensure an emission level in accordance with the standards in force. The environmental balance of these transformations is a priori balanced. In particular, they have reduced emissions of fine particulate matter from direct-injection petrol vehicles without particulate filters. A feedback on the operation of approved and installed devices is expected shortly, in accordance with the approval order for conversion units. However, the share of biofuels in food competition is limited to 7% of the share of final energy in transport, which is already reached. The growth of the share of biofuels in the transport sector can therefore only be achieved through biofuels without food competition, in particular the so-called second-generation biofuels – wood, straw and algae. The use of this type of biofuels is still emerging. It is therefore important to ensure that E85 production does not develop at the expense of food crops. The Government has thus promoted, in the 2019 Finance Act, the use of sugar residues, which increases the share of ethanol in fuels by limiting the ecological impact. The attractiveness of E85's current taxation is likely to encourage its development.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u181	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to raise her question, No. 536, concerning the inclusion of the communes of North Isère in the Lyon mobility basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u182	Article 3 of the preliminary draft of the mobility law authorizes the Government to legislate by order in order to create a public institution which would carry out the tasks of a "mobility organizing authority" on a geographical perimeter integrating the Rhône department and the Lyon metropolis. This new institution will clarify and facilitate the governance of mobility in and around the Lyon metropolis. However, in its current wording, the draft law excludes from the perimeter of this new establishment several Iseroese communes located to the east of Lyon, in the immediate vicinity of the station and the airport Saint-Exupéry: Janneyrias, located 7 kilometers from the station, Charvieu-Chavagneu, Tignieu-Jameyzieu or Chamagnieu, about ten kilometers away. For these municipalities, the Lyon metropolis is a true centre of economic and social gravity. It is also a multimodal "hub", to which access is essential for long-distance travel. The importance of this area was also marked by the creation, in 2015, of a "interdepartmental space Saint-Exupéry" composed of twenty communes, half of them of North Isère, by the territorial directive for the development of the Lyon metropolitan area. Given its location, many of the employees of the station, the airport, but also the 3,500 companies located on the Plaine Saint-Exupéry live in communes of the Nord-Isère. However, this station and the surrounding basin are not accessible to these inhabitants who, in the absence of public transport, have no choice but to use their car to get there. In line with the broad socio-economic and environmental objectives of the mobility guidance law – LOM – the inclusion of these municipalities within the scope of the Lyon-Rhône public mobility establishment seems essential. It will allow them to be freed, thanks in particular to a service through a collective mode of access to the area of Saint-Exupéry. Conversely, their exclusion would lead to an increase in territorial inequalities with neighbouring Rhone-Alpine municipalities, would limit the attractiveness of these territories, which would be cut off from their mobility pool, and would not contribute to the reduction of peri-urban pollution. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, could you confirm to me that the communes of Nord-Isère located near the area of Saint-Exupéry will be well included in the perimeter of the new establishment and will benefit fully from the progress of this reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u183	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u184	Madam Member, you have drawn the attention of Mrs Élisabeth Borne, Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, to an article in the LOM and to the inclusion of the communes of Nord-Isère. Mrs. Borne cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. The joint transport union of the Lyon agglomeration – SYTRAL – is a joint trade union of a type created by the Act of 13 December 2000 on urban solidarity and renewal – SRU –, a coordination structure between transport organising authorities. SYTRAL also organises all urban and long distance public transport on behalf of its members, with an investment and contracting policy requiring a stable framework. In the continuity of the law of modernization of the territorial public action and affirmation of the metropolises – MAPTAM – and of the law of new territorial organization of the Republic – NOTRE – which already provided for dedicated provisions that have recently led to the revision of the statutes of the Union, it is proposed to fully recognize its specificity and to perpetuate it by the law, like Île-de-France Mobilitys. Section 3 of the mobility guidance bill is thus intended to create, by order, a public institution that will replace SYTRAL within its current geographical scope and jurisdiction. However, the extension of SYTRAL to municipalities bordering North Isère would be out of its original social object and does not seem desirable. This would also open a much wider debate, which should necessarily take place at the level of intercommunalities and in all the territories bordering the SYTRAL and could extend far into the Isère department or other departments, such as the Ain or the Loire. Ways other than the institutional response can be preferred to respond in concrete terms to your legitimate concern about the accessibility of the Lyon metropolis and the economic zone of the Saint-Exupéry airport. These paths must come from the local wills. The first is cooperation between actors. The coordination of organising authorities at the level of a mobility pool is an essential part of the mobility guidance bill. Intercommunities and road and railway managers are key partners, as illustrated by the example of the territory of North Isère. The second is the association of employers with mobility policies, in order to increase the accountability of businesses and communities. The proposed partner committee and the future employer mobility plan must provide opportunities for dialogue to improve journeys between home and work. Today, these two routes are often a poor parent of mobility policies in France, which helps to leave out some public or territory. They have largely fed our reflections and the answers to these questions will have to reinforce them. Parliament will have an opportunity to discuss this in the near future when considering the mobility guidance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u185	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u186	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for that answer. However, I would like to draw your attention to what might be called the "mile-sheets of mobility", quite close to the "territorial mill-sheets": sometimes administrative boundaries limit mobilitys or flows of activities, although natural, since they are those of the life pools of our fellow citizens. In North Isère, we are severely affected by this problem. I believe that this will indeed be a major issue under the LOM law.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u187	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to put her question, No. 540, on the national road 7 – RN7 – in the Nièvre.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u188	Madam the Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of the ecological and solidarity transition, the contract of plan State-region – CPER – 2015-2020 of the Burgundy region previews the financing, to the tune of 70%, of the work of completion of the crossing in two two tracks of the RN7, axis of decongestion of the highway A6 between Saint-Pierre-le-Moûtier and the administrative limit of the Allier. Started in 1989 with an initial completion planned in the year 2000, the doubling of this historically busy road is one of the major challenges of the economic and demographic development of the Nièvre department. Indeed, it makes it possible to make the junction between the A6 Paris-Dordives, the A77 Dordives-Nevers and Balbigny, in the Loire, and with the road Centre-Europe-Atlantique – RCEA, which will also be split in the years to come. In the 2015-2020 SPC, €52 million was committed for this work, with €15 million in 2018, €32 million in 2019 and €25 million in 2020. Since the 2018 appropriations have not been released, they must be budgeted in 2019, which amounts to a total of 47 million euros. In addition, the two-kilometre road section between Villeneuve-sur-Allier and Moulins, which amounts to 19 million euros, will have to be registered in the next CPER before the A77 ends in cul-de-sac. The mobility law, which we are going to discuss shortly, is redefining the priorities in terms of planning, including state support for daily journeys and community and diversion arrangements. Knowing that we are unlikely to see the TGV passing through our territory, such a de-enclavement by doubling the A77 over its entire length is therefore imperative. This project, which is crucial for my territory, must now be completed within a reasonable time, as this project is already nineteen years behind schedule. In addition, the markets have been notified and their term of validity expires at the end of March 2019. We must therefore act now. Madam Secretary of State, can you guarantee that the €47 million appropriations corresponding to the construction of these road infrastructures listed in the 2015-2020 SPC will be well funded in 2019 and that the next SPC will integrate the financing of the missing section between Villeneuve-sur-Allier and Moulins, thus enabling the completion of this structuring project?
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u189	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u190	You have kindly drawn the attention of Mrs Élisabeth Borne, Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the ecological and solidarity transition, responsible for transport, to the project of development twice two lanes of the RN7 in the south of the Nièvre – a linear of about 13 kilometers remains to be arranged between Saint-Pierre-le-Moûtier and the boundary with the department of Allier. As the minister cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. I would like to confirm once again that the state is fully aware of the importance of completing the two-track development of this section of the RN7. This operation is indeed a major objective of the current plan contract between the State and the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region. A total of EUR 91.5 million has to be mobilised on the expiry of the CPER, of which more than 64 million have been contributed by the State. For the section between Saint-Pierre-le-Moûtier and the boundary with the department of Allier, detailed design studies are currently in the completion phase. The first construction of a railway crossing between Paris and Clermont-Ferrand, located near the project, has already been carried out. The four kilometres of the section just south of the commune of Saint-Pierre have already been built twice two lanes. Safety equipment will soon be put in place on this section to complete the work. On the remaining section, work was carried out in the first half of last year, with the completion of a restoration art work of RD272, completed in September 2018. Work will continue, with the aim of putting all these developments into service by the end of 2022. As regards the work to be carried out on the RN7 in the north of the Allier department and in line with those planned to the south of the Nièvre, this development of the route is obviously intended to continue during the future contract. A prioritisation approach has already been undertaken in order to identify the sections whose implementation is most relevant from the appropriations of the next plan contract. After analysing the various sections still to be developed, the "bar of Trevol" appeared to be one of the most priority. While Villeneuve-sur-Allier's deviation must be put into service at the beginning of 2020, work on the law of the Trévol bar now has an estimated cost of 19 million for a two-way linear of 1.7 kilometres. Without prejudging any appropriations that may actually be entered in the future plan contract of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, I confirm that the objective is to launch the necessary studies quickly, in order to be able to carry out this work over the period of the next plan contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u191	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u192	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, but you did not answer me about the release of funds until March 2019. Could you ask Mrs. Borne to give me that answer? As I said, indeed, all calls for tenders have been launched and have already been validated for four months: their validity is six months, and this will expire at the end of March. In the absence of appropriations before that date, the whole procedure will have to be repeated, which will lead to a further delay. I would therefore like to thank you for asking the minister to answer me.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u193	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor to put his question, No. 541, on the future of the Bourges-Montluçon line.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u194	My question, which is addressed to the Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, concerns the future of the Bourges-Montluçon railway line, which serves several communes of Cher and Allier. The situation of the secondary rail network in our region of the Centre-Val de Loire, and in particular that of this line, is critical: we are now paying for the successive absences or postponements of investment on this network in recent decades. Major investments are now both essential and urgent, otherwise this line is threatened by major traffic restrictions and even closures in the coming years. Within the framework of a tripartite contract between SNCF Réseau, the Region Centre-Val de Loire and the State, the region has already committed itself to accompany the regeneration of this axis, to the tune of 50% of the cost of the works foreseen in the contract of plan State-region 2015-2020. The State committed itself at the beginning of December 2018 by signing the financing agreements, amounting to EUR 3.4 million, as it had undertaken earlier to finance the renewal of rolling stock. These first investments are good news, but they are only the first stage of colossal work on track and signalling, the cost of which could reach EUR 100 million. Lines such as those of Bourges-Montluçon are essential not only to ensure the proper service of the entire national territory for our fellow citizens, including their daily journeys, but also for the development of economic activity. This is the case, for example, of the workshops in Orval, a company that manufactures and revises railway rolling stock, the existence of which is directly related to this line. More generally, the existence of a station contributes to the attractiveness of a territory. In this case, they are students who can follow the courses of excellence given at Saint-Amand-Montrond, customers that local industries can receive, tourists from the Paris Basin who can come to spend a weekend and visit jewels such as the abbey of Noirlac, or farmers who can transport their cereal production. Beyond the recent, very positive announcements, I would therefore like to know the nature of the commitment of the Government and the State in the coming months and years to the modernization of this line, which is vital for the territories concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u195	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u196	Mr President, you wanted to draw the attention of Mrs Élisabeth Borne, Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, to the future of the Bourges-Montluçon line. The minister cannot be present, she asked me to answer you. The State has made a strong commitment to the Bourges-Montluçon line, since, as you recalled, it financed in December 2018, to the tune of more than 80%, the most urgent regeneration work, under the contract of plan State-region – CPER – 2015-2020 for the region Centre-Val de Loire. This commitment was also reflected in the signing of the amendment to the CPER Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, with the integration of this axis into the envelope dedicated to the fine services of the region. Finally, it is planned that the State will finance EUR 460 million for the renewal of rolling stock, as well as a significant annual contribution to the operating costs of this line. Nevertheless, the investments necessary for the sustainability of this line can be estimated at about 65 million euros by 2025, including 50 million in the Centre-Val de Loire and 15 million in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, plus a potential need of 40 million for the renewal of the signage. While the plan for the rescue of the small lines of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes incorporates this need, the 50 million needed for regeneration in the Centre-Val de Loire are not included in the CPER to date. A discussion will therefore have to take place at regional level in order to define the conditions for their financing. In view of the significant amount needed to meet the needs for upgrading small lines at national level, new innovative solutions should be sought, adapted to the infrastructures and challenges of the areas served. It was in this context that the Government entrusted Mr. François Philizot with a mission to prepare and share with the stakeholders an overview of the situation at the national and regional levels, to identify the various technical, organizational, financial and contractual solutions aimed at ensuring the sustainability of the fine service lines of the territories and then to defuse the solutions thus identified at the regional level. It is in this context that the case of the Bourges-Montluçon line must be addressed and I am confident that the work undertaken will help to define solutions linked to all the stakeholders.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u197	Mr Loïc Kervran has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u198	I would like to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer, which reflects the concerns raised by my colleagues, whether they are the thousand-sheet of mobility, the difficulties of the territories which are, like ours, on horseback between two regions, or the fulfilment of the commitments entered into under the State-region plan contracts. I heard your call to find innovative solutions. Be aware that I will be at the side of the mission to search for them and to ensure the sustainability of the fine desserts that you also call of your wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u199	The floor is open to Mr Jean Lassalle, to put his question, No. 562, on the renovation of the national road 134 – RN134.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u200	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I am pleased to take advantage of this very public face-to-face to discuss with you the most painful of the issues that I have had to deal with in my long public life: that of National Highway 134 and the Somport Tunnel. The Minister to the Minister of State, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, in charge of transport, replied to me about a month ago by communicating to me the figures contained in the contract for a State-region plan under signature – I hope that it was not signed without our consultation. This is an important issue and, some 20 years ago, there was no sitting in this House without reference to it. For the part of the RN134 from Pau to Oloron, an amount of EUR 11 million is foreseen to extend certain sections to 7 metres. This operation appears to be provided for in the plan contract. For the deviation of Oloron-Sainte-Marie, the planned amount is 77 million euros, which should be borne by the State and the department. In both cases, we do not know whether the region will participate. Still the part between Oloron and the Somport tunnel. This part, located in the mountains, hosts a large traffic of heavy goods vehicles which, before reaching the tunnel, take very difficult sections of the road, and is found to be the most accidental part of the RN134. At the time of construction of this tunnel, which is one of the longest in the world, deviations were planned and the part of the RN134 corresponding to European Route 7 was to be placed on the gauge. Unfortunately, this project was one of the first to go wrong, while a citizen and ecological watch was rising in power. The tunnel was built, but none of the facilities intended to accompany it was built. The 7 million entered for this section will not be enough to finance work to improve the situation. I quote the minister's letter...
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u201	I would like to point out, dear colleague, that the time shown includes the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u202	I will therefore shorten my speech and ask the Secretary of State directly whether this amount of EUR 7 million for the Oloron-Somport section, which is very insufficient, will be reviewed and whether the region will remain outside the financing of this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u203	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u204	Mr President, I would like to assure you that the state is fully mobilized to provide an adequate response to the various issues related to the projects included in the State-Region Plan contract – CPER – New Aquitaine for the RN134, and which you are familiar with. All of these projects amount to €95 million, 60% of which is provided by the State. The work concerns the deviation of Oloron, the safety of the axis between Pau and Oloron and the development of singular points between Oloron and the Spanish border. In addition, EUR 7.85 million is programmed in a non-CPER envelope for the abolition of crossing 24 in the territory of the municipality of Herrère, for which work is already under way. More specifically, between Pau and Oloron, 11 million euros, financed entirely by the State, will be invested to secure this section over 10 kilometers. The project also includes measures to promote the environment, including the treatment of road water and the reduction of noise pollution. The Environmental Authority delivered its opinion last November and the public utility investigation may be held before the summer, as soon as the additional studies requested by the Environmental Authority have been carried out. With regard to the section between Oloron and the Spanish border, work on singular points is recorded at the level of EUR 7 million, fully financed by the State. Four components were identified: the treatment of ad hoc physical facilities, including Asasp-Arros' North and South entrances, the provision of equipment to help inform users, the reduction of vulnerability to natural hazards, and the restoration of ecological transparency for wildlife. The studies are under way for a launch of the first works in the course of 2019. Finally, as regards the deviation of Oloron-Sainte-Marie, an amount of EUR 77 million is entered in the current CPER, co-financed at parity by the State and the Department of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques. The 2008 declaration of public utility was extended in 2018 until March 2023. Detailed design studies, made complex by the nature of the works to be carried out, continue, as well as pre-commencement procedures. As you can see, the state is mobilized to adjust the RN134 axis in line with the reality of the mobility needs of this territory. Increasing the amount spent on this route under the current CPER would mean a reduction in the amounts planned for other axes. In view of the constrained budgetary context we are experiencing, this does not seem possible, but development will continue at the same rate in future planning contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u205	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u206	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to congratulate the entire Government, and Mr. Dussopt in particular, on having dealt with the problem of the relocation of Bedous' treasury. On this occasion, you set up a follow-up committee for the public services of the Aspe Valley. Perhaps you could give instructions to Mr. Prefect, who is responsible for presiding over him, to focus on the work of RN134 and lead the region to support this important project.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u207	The next speaker is Mr Jacques Marilossian, to put his question, No. 538, on the impact of the waste trajectory of the general tax on polluting activities on the Central Joint Union for the Treatment of Household Waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u208	My question is to Mr Sébastien Lecornu, Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. I wonder about the price increase path of the "waste" component of the general tax on polluting activities – TGAP – and its impact on the Central Joint Union for the Treatment of Domestic Waste – SYCTOM – which provides the treatment and recovery of household waste for four-and-four municipalities in the Île-de-France region. Indeed, the financial bill for 2019 aims to implement several measures provided for in the roadmap for a 100% circular economy, drawn up in consultation with environmental associations, local authorities, businesses and, of course, citizens. This roadmap proposes to adapt taxation to make waste recovery cheaper than waste disposal: on the one hand, by reducing the VAT rate on prevention activities, separate collection, sorting and recovery of waste; on the other hand, by increasing the tariffs of the waste component of the TGAP for landfilling and incineration. The Government stated that "all communities that engage in a real approach to the circular economy will see their burdens reduced". Article 8 of the 2019 Finance Bill provides for the strengthening of the tariff increase path of the waste component of the TGAP between 2021 and 2025, in order to ensure that the cost of recycling waste is lower than the other waste treatment modalities of landfilling, incineration and even energy recovery. According to its estimates, SYCTOM alone would finance more than 21% of this increase in TGAP, while it represents only 10% of the French population. In the full year, the TGAP to which the union is charged would thus increase from 6 to 33.5 million euros, for an annual budget of around 300 million euros. However, the strategy of SYCTOM is resolutely oriented towards the recovery of waste into energy: 63% of the waste was converted into energy in 2016, which covers 43% of the supply of heat from the Paris district heating company. Without calling into question the Government's willingness to encourage waste sorting, I would like to know what measures it intends to take to compensate for this increase in environmental taxes, which will unfairly affect a state-of-the-art waste recovery territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u209	The Secretary of State to the Minister of State, Minister for Ecological and Solidarity Transition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u210	Mr Lecornu, first of all, I would like to remind you, on behalf of Mr Lecornu, that our first priority is to reduce our waste production and to develop recycling. Nevertheless, the energy recovery of waste is not incompatible with the circular economy. It should be seen as a solution to accompany the development of recycling activities in sorting centres, with a view in particular to valuing the rejections of sorting resulting from them, as well as waste which does not yet have a recycling solution. With regard to TGAP, Parliament has adopted, as part of the 2019 Finance Act, a comprehensive reform of waste taxation aimed at making waste recycling more economically attractive than waste disposal. This reform is part of a global balance that allows the tax burden to be distributed in a manner consistent with the objectives of the road map for the circular economy: the division by two of the landfill of waste and the recycling of 100% of plastics by 2025. Previously, economic signals were not at the right level to achieve these objectives. Landfill and incineration taxes remained below what is necessary to have a real impact on investment in recycling infrastructure. You mention the financial impact for SYCTOM of TGAP's new trajectory. The figures provided by the departments of the Ministry responsible for local authorities differ from the figures you provide. According to these estimates, SYCTOM will fund around 10% of this increase, not 21% as you indicate. In parallel with this new TGAP trajectory, new financial capacity is being given to communities to invest and adapt, through three combined support mechanisms: VAT relief on sorting, recycling and waste prevention activities, the 50% reduction in the TGAP paid for the high-efficiency energy recovery of sorting refusals from high-performance sorting centres and, for five years, the reduction of the management fees levied by the State on the incentive tax for the removal of household waste. The future circular economy bill of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition will also allow the implementation of non-fiscal measures provided for in the circular economy roadmap, which will allow communities to see their waste management costs decrease. I am thinking in particular of the creation of new channels of extended producer responsibility, which will allow some of these costs from communities to be transferred to producers and marketers. Finally, if, despite the accompanying measures I have just mentioned, the overall impact of the increase in net GPT was negative for the communities, the Government committed that the additional tax revenues would be returned the following year to the Environment and Energy Management Agency Circular Economic Assistance Fund – ADEME.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u211	Mr. Jacques Marilossian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u212	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We will check with SYCTOM the numbers indicated. I would remind you that this union has planned to invest €1.4 billion in urban integration, energy optimisation and improved smoke treatment. It would therefore be unfair to penalize him, whereas he has already done a great deal to recover the waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u213	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u214	The Conference of Presidents, meeting this morning, proposed to include in the agenda of the Assembly week of 18 February 2019: - the motion for a resolution on the European trade agenda and the agreement between the European Union and Japan; - the proposal for a law to combat sudden death and to make the public aware of the actions that save; - proposals for legislation, adopted by the Senate, establishing the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. There's no opposition? It was so decided.
ParlaMint-FR_2019-01-29-O1128.u215	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Proposal for a law on the time limit for intervention of the judge of freedoms and detention in administrative detention in Mayotte; Proposal for a law to prevent and punish violence during demonstrations. The meeting is adjourned.
